ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER DNV GL at a glance CUSTOMERS ESTABLISHED ≈ 100 000 1864 MORE ON OUR HISTORY EMPLOYEES COUNTRIES ≈ 12 100 100+ Content COMPANY MARKETS SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 03 Company 26 Markets 52 Sustainability 90 Performance 04 CEO Statement 28 Maritime 54 Value to customers 92 Board of Directors’ report 06 Highlights 32 Oil & Gas 60 Value to employees 100 Board of Directors’ profiles 08 Key figures 36 Energy 74 Value to society 102 Financial performance 10 Group structure 40 Business Assurance 110 Notes 12 Business areas at a glance 44 Digital Solutions 134 Auditor’s reports 14 From vision to impact 48 Sustainable innovations 135 Information and contact 16 What is important to us 136 GRI index 20 Research and innovation 24 Executive Committee COMPANY DNV GL is a global quality assurance and risk management company. Driven by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, we enable our customers to advance the safety and sustainability of their business. Combining technical, digital and operational expertise, risk methodology and in-depth industry knowledge, we empower our customers’ decisions and actions with trust and confidence. We continuously invest in research and collaborative innovation to provide customers and society with operational and technological foresight. With origins stretching back to 1864 and operations in more than 100 countries, our experts are dedicated to helping customers make the world safer, smarter and greener. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 3 CEO STATEMENT CREATING VALUE TOGETHER 4 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The past few years have been demanding, with particularly challenging market conditions in the maritime and energy markets. After a tough start to 2018, however, the second half developed positively with improvements both in revenue and profitability. Our focus on reducing costs and improving productivity remained very much in place, while we prioritized investments in digital processes and services. As a result, we are now even better placed to add value by bringing our technical expertise efficiently to our customers in a decarbonizing and digitalizing market. n a world increasingly defined by speed and Several other projects are underway to explore new business I complexity, co-creation with customers and models in digital assurance. In maritime, machine learning other stakeholders is vital to stay ahead of algorithms assist us with routing technical questions to the developments. DNV GL has always facilitated right experts, while surveyors can now use remote survey tools and catalysed industry co-operation, but we to further enhance quality and service level. are now intensifying our collaborative efforts to enhance safety and efficiency of designs and operations, Speed of development is critical, as is accessing the latest and to build trust into processes, products and systems. technology and talent around the world. In 2018, we entered into a research partnership to develop artificial intelligence with We also collaborate more broadly, connecting with academia, Norwegian Open AI Lab. We are also opening a technology and research institutions, regulatory authorities and other busiresearch centre in Shanghai in 2019 to further explore digital nesses through joint industry projects and digitally enabled technologies and artificial intelligence in particular. Last year, ecosystems. By doing so, we are better able to take a systemsa broad cross-section of DNV GL’s senior management completed level and ecosystem approach to innovation. a ‘Leading Digital Transformation’ course co-developed with INSEAD. This valuable learning exercise has now been extended It is increasingly clear to us that over the next five to 15 years to hundreds of additional participants across DNV GL. we will see a rapid energy transition affecting all the industries we serve. For our customers and for ourselves, the energy transition is a great source of risk and of opportunity, and understanding the likely nature and pace of the coming changes is of deep strategic value. During 2018, we released our second For our customers and for Energy Transition Outlook, an updated and more detailed forecast of the energy future towards 2050. ourselves, the energy transition is a great source of risk and of In the maritime industry, the transition will shape the future fleet and alter what is shipped, where and how. Wide-spread opportunity, and understanding the change will come through more demanding environmental regulations, and evaluating new fuels and technologies to likely nature and pace of the coming future-proof ships will be critical. changes is of deep strategic value. Growth in natural gas and renewables will characterize this future, but the biggest change will come from energy efficiency, By combining our industry domain expertise with digital expedited in large part through advances in digitalization. expertise, we will continue to stay relevant and to add The pursuit of efficiency extends beyond the energy sector of value to our customers in the new world that is emerging. course, and characterizes so much of the new, connected world. Our purpose to safeguard life, property and the environment instinctively directs our efforts in serving our customers and One of our key responses to this megatrend has been to scalesociety at large. The common culture we desire in DNV GL up Veracity, our industry data management platform where is marked by our employees’ commitment to this purpose, co-creation and co-innovation can happen in a much more and the values we espouse. efficient way than before. Today, we have 1.2 million service subscriptions, and the platform is growing by 100 users a day. There are close to 200 services and apps on Veracity, including several external providers. To bolster our understanding and expertise in new technologies, we acquired a stake in the Singapore-based blockchain company, VeChain. We launched My Story™, a blockchain solution designed to enhance consumer trust in products and supply chains. Remi Eriksen, Group President & CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 5 HIGHLIGHTS A blockchain-powered solution telling a product’s true story My Story™ gives brands a unique opportunity to share In 2018, the solution was piloted in the food & beverage with consumers the authentic product story, from the and fashion industries, but is applicable to a wide range quality to social, environmental or ethical integrity of of consumer goods. My Story gives a unique ID to each a product. Consumers engage with the product by product and stores the DNV GL verified facts about the scanning a QR code, which gives access to the product’s product on a blockchain platform. story stored on a blockchain ledger. Modernization of class accelerated – customers rapidly adopt new digital tools Digital tools are changing the nature of class and improving the way our maritime customers interact with DNV GL. In 2018, over 100,000 electronic certificates were issued to DNV GL classed vessels, allowing charterers, flag states, port authorities, and insurers to easily access and check the validity of certificates. More than half of all DNV GL’s ship surveys were booked using Smart Survey Booking, a new tool that automatically finds the optimal location and time for surveys. On DNV GL’s Direct Access to Technical Experts (DATE) service, machine learning systems routed about 60,000 technical questions directly to a DNV GL expert. 2018 also saw the growing use of drone-assisted surveys and the first remote survey trials. These groundbreaking digital services, alongside new class guidelines for autonomous ships and cyber security class notations, helped DNV GL top Lloyd’s List ranking of classification societies as well as take home the China Merchants Port Holdings Innovation Award at the Lloyd’s List Global Awards in 2018. 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Technology centre for DNV GL sole owner of Presafe 3D printing opened Presafe is an accredited certification body and EU Notified in Singapore Body for Medical Devices and Hazardous Area Equipment. DNV GL acquired 100% ownership of the company, which was a joint-venture with the Norwegian testing and certification company Nemko. Acquiring full ownership secured a strong business foundation for expansion in product assurance. Additive manufacturing, enabling immediate on-site printing of parts from digital models, could save companies cost and time worth USD30 billion according World Economic Forum estimates. Yet adoption both in oil & gas and maritime indusExplosive research: tries has so far been low as the cost of failure is high. commissioning the world’s DNV GL’s new Global Additive Manufacturing Technology most advanced test facilities Centre of Excellence is addressing these concerns and enables printed parts to be qualified and certified to standards applied to those molded. The centre started collaboration with Sembcorp Marine, SIMTech and NAMIC to develop Our research and testing facility in Spadeadam, UK, runs full-scale and certify laser aided additive manufacturing of largeexplosion experiments, offering customers the opportunity to scale structures for newbuild vessels in Singapore. carry out trials in a controlled and secure ‘real-life’ environment. To add to the facility’s capabilities, the world’s largest industrial explosion chamber was commissioned. The expanded explosion chamber will help in the work to design safety procedures and reduce complexity and over-design of fire and explosion protection. DNV GL acquires GridLab for power grid trainings Veracity data platform: GridLab, a leading provider of power grid training, seminars From pilot to full-scale and studies, was acquired to complement DNV GL services to open ecosystem the power transmission and distribution sector. GridLab caters to the increasing demand for standardized and certified training of grid operator personnel. GridLab’s services include seminars for network operation focused on decision making, soft-skill DNV GL’s data management platform, Veracity, linked up a million and communication trainings to deal with crisis scenarios such service subscriptions as users from 1 500 different companies as cyber-security risks to energy systems. accessed an increasing amount of services on the marketplace. Veracity facilitates secure connectivity between industry players, driving business innovation and digital transformation. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 7 KEY FIGURES REVENUE (MILLION NOK) 19 639 LAST FIVE YEARS PER BUSINESS AREA MARITIME 6,702 24,000 23,390 21,623 OIL & GAS 20,834 19,475 19,639 4,455 20,000 ENERGY 16,000 3,620 BUSINESS 12,000 ASSURANCE 3,645 8,000 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS 912 4,000 OTHER* 0 305 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Global shared services and Group functions, including Technology & Research and Real Estate. EMPLOYEES 12 101 LAST FIVE YEARS PER BUSINESS AREA MARITIME 3,484 15,712 14,954 OIL & GAS 15,000 13,550 2,264 12,715 12,101 ENERGY 12,000 2,246 9,000 BUSINESS ASSURANCE 1,908 6,000 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS 3,000 790 OTHER* 0 1,409 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Global shared services and Group functions, including Technology & Research and Real Estate. 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 EBITA (MILLION NOK) EBITA MARGIN (%) 1 062 5.4% LAST FIVE YEARS LAST FIVE YEARS 10 10.2% 2,400 2,274 9.7% 2,203 8 2,000 1,600 6 5.1% 5.4% 1,062 4.7% 1,200 984 993 4 800 2 400 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 EBIT / OPERATING PROFIT (MILLION NOK) EQUITY RATIO (%) 549 56.7% LAST FIVE YEARS LAST FIVE YEARS 1,738 1,800 70 1,612 65.4% 62.3% 64.8% 60 58.1% 56.7% 1,500 50 1,200 40 900 30 549 600 474 20 300 154 10 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 9 GROUP STRUCTURE DNV GL is structured into five business areas. In addition, we have a Global Shared Services organization and a Group Centre that includes our strategic research unit, Group Technology and Research. OWNERSHIP During 2018, ownership of Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS, which owns real estate in Høvik, Norway, was moved from Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas to DNV GL Group AS. Results are included in this year’s financial performance. No other significant changes were made to the organization in 2018. DNV GL Group is owned by Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, a fully owned subsidiary of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas. Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas is an autonomous, independent foundation and is, through Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, the sole owner of DNV GL. See more details in the Corporate Governance report. MARITIME OIL & GAS HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: HAMBURG OSLO GERMANY NORWAY 10 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DNV GL GROUP HEADQUARTERS: OSLO TECHNOLOGY NORWAY & RESEARCH GROUP CENTRE BUSINESS AREAS BUSINESS DIGITAL ENERGY ASSURANCE SOLUTIONS HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: HEADQUARTERS: ARNHEM LONDON OSLO NETHERLANDS UK NORWAY GLOBAL SHARED SERVICES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 11 BUSINESS AREAS AT A GLANCE MARITIME OIL & GAS We help enhance the safety, From project initiation to Our approach efficiency and sustainability decommissioning, we provide of our customers in the global technical advice to enable shipping industry, covering oil and gas companies to all vessel types and mobile enhance safety, increase offshore units. reliability and manage costs in projects and operations. SERVICES INCLUDE: SERVICES INCLUDE: Services Classification of ships and Risk management advisory mobile offshore units Technical advisory Certification of materials and Noble Denton marine services components Technical assurance Technical, safety, business risk – Certification and verification and environmental advisory – Inspection Training and competencerelated services Revenues (NOK mill.) Group 19 639 6 702 NOK MILLION 4 455 NOK MILLION Employees Group 12 101 3 484 EMPLOYEES 2 264 EMPLOYEES HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE: HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE: Highlights Vessel ordering and transport Increased oil & gas industry demand increased confidence Focus on decarbonization strategies Remote digital technology Standards for 3D printing of parts enabling live-streamed inspections launched New Global Additive ManufacNew class guideline covering turing Centre of Excellence autonomous and remotely 39 joint industry projects (JIP) operated ships in 2018 New cyber secure class notations New dedicated LNG centre opened in the Netherlands 12 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BUSINESS DIGITAL ENERGY ASSURANCE SOLUTIONS We deliver testing and advisory Combining technical, digital We provide digital solutions services to the energy value and industry expertise, we for managing risk, improving chain including renewables and help customers in all industry safety and performance energy management. We support sectors build sustainable across industries, including customers around the globe in business performance and maritime, oil and gas, delivering a safe, reliable, efficient, create stakeholder trust. energy and healthcare. and sustainable energy supply. SERVICES INCLUDE: SERVICES INCLUDE: SERVICES AND SOLUTIONS INCLUDE: Power and renewables advisory Management system certification Generic and industry specific and monitoring services Product certification & assurance software Renewables certification Supply chain solutions & assurance Tailored analytics solutions Sustainability practices solutions, Energy storage services Digitalization and data audits & strategy Digitalization of energy management advisory Competence training & personnel Energy management services Cyber security assurance, certification Functional safety training & assessment advisory and penetration testing Digital assurance solutions for supply Veracity open data platform chains, ecosystems and packaged goods Healthcare accreditation & certification Food & beverage industry solutions 3 620 NOK MILLION 3 645 NOK MILLION 912 NOK MILLION 2 246 EMPLOYEES 1 908 EMPLOYEES 790 EMPLOYEES HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE: HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE: HIGHLIGHTS INCLUDE: Exploring offshore wind further Transitioned customers to new Scaling up Veracity out to sea ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 versions Increasing software-as-a-service Technical due diligence completed Acquired full ownership of (SaaS) solutions for offshore wind projects DNV GL Nemko Presafe Moving Synergi Pipeline to New performance standard for Expanded social and ethical the cloud domestic-scale energy storage audit portfolio New renewables ecosystem Digital monitoring helps prevent Blockchain-based solutions Exploring digital transformation network failures launched to enable trust in of healthcare Advisory services for offshore supply chains and products wind projects ramping up ANNUAL REPORT 2018 13 FROM VISION TO IMPACT SAFER, SMARTER AND GREENER SOLUTIONS Our vision of having global impact for a safe and sustainable future expresses our ambition and sets the direction of our business. Our commitment to customers and society is driven by our purpose. Guided by our values, we strive to do the right things and to do things right. OUR PURPOSE OUR VISION OUR VALUES To safeguard life, Global impact We build trust and confidence property and the for a safe and We never compromise on quality or integrity environment sustainable future We are committed to teamwork and innovation We care for our customers and each other We embrace change and deliver results 14 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FROM VISION TO IMPACT How do we turn our purpose and vision into impact? In two ways. Firstly, we work to ensure our operations are as Our second, and far greater, impact is through the services responsible and sustainable as possible, focusing on minimizing we provide to our customers. Across our business areas our our operational impact. In 2018, we have ensured that our products, services and expertise help customers be more operations are carbon neutral. We are guided by the principles efficient, safer and more sustainable. We dedicate significant of the UN Global Compact and we seek continual improvement resources into research and partnerships that deliver insight through ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified management into today’s sustainability challenges. The findings feed into our systems for environment and safety. work for customers and are often made freely available where they can be of benefit to a wider group of stakeholders. Supporting the Sustainable SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy SDG 9: Industry, innovation and infrastructure Development Goals (SDGs) SDG 13: Climate action We are a resolute supporter of the SDGs. We provide strong business solutions supporting a number of the goals. See our sustainable innovations for examples on how we contribute to reaching the Goals, with a particular focus on reaching SDG 7, 9 and 13. See how we make an impact on pages 48–51. Going forward, we are working on many projects in support of Goals 3, 12 and 14. SDG 3: Good health and well-being SDG 12: Responsible consumption and production SDG 14: Life below water Helping other businesses evaluate their impact Beyond our own business and the services we provide to customers, we support the SDGs more widely through research and partnerships. Alongside the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), we conducted a global survey of WBCSD members and Global Network partners to explore how businesses are working to align activities with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Business and SDGs report gives insights into companies’ current approach, their plans and the barriers that need to be overcome. We have also developed the SDG Lens, a freely-available self-assessment tool that helps companies better understand their potential contribution to the SDGs. It reveals the individual SDGs and associated targets in priority order based on a company’s potential to influence the Goals and become more sustainable. A wider aim of the SDG Lens is to build a community of business users, providing insight into the SDGs and targets commonly prioritised by peer groups and sectors. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 15 WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND SOCIETY With global expertise in many industries, Understanding what issues are most important to our business and our external stakeholders helps direct the approach we about 100,000 customers, around 12,000 take to creating value. We engage with internal and external stakeholders to identify the economic, social and environmental employees and involvement in a range risks, opportunities and impacts that are most important, of partnerships, we aspire to deliver both or material, to DNV GL and our stakeholders. financial and non-financial value to our Our key stakeholders are our owner, Stiftelsen Det Norske customers, employees, society and the Veritas, along with our customers, employees, suppliers, research institutions, government bodies, industry associations, environment. civil society organizations, and the media. 16 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US Defining our important topics MATERIALITY PROCESS 2018 We completed our first materiality assessment in 2012 and the results were reviewed and updated in 2014 and 2016. This year we have refined our materiality assessment again to establish a revised set of important topics for DNV GL. 1 Draw together topics identified as important from a range of These are outlined below and covered in detail in the INPUTS evidence: sustainability performance section (see page 53). – Previous materiality results – 2018 stakeholder survey Our 2018 materiality assessment included a wide-ranging (more than 1,000 responses) stakeholder survey designed to identify the sustainability – Peer company review topics our customers, suppliers, partners, employees and the media consider important. The survey received more than 1,000 responses and provided an initial list of material topics. We also conducted a review of peer companies. Using the results of our previous materiality assessments and the latest round of inputs, we then analysed the issues 2 Evaluate which topics are material to DNV GL and ASSESSMENT our stakeholders to identify a draft list of 15 material topics for DNV GL. Finally, we ratified the list for 2018 in an internal workshop of experts from around the business. Our latest brand survey also confirms these results. Conducted in 2018, it received more than 4,500 responses from existing and prospective customers on their levels 3 Final set of material topics agreed at internal workshop AGREEMENT of awareness, trust and advocacy. The survey asked what attributes – including those related to sustainability – customers felt were most important. The agreed materiality topics reflect how we create value for our customers, employees, society and the environment at a global level. Those topics not considered material for 4 2018 annual report REPORTING reporting in the annual report, such as broader environmental impacts, are covered in the sustainability section of the DNV GL website: www.dnvgl.com/about/sustainability/ DNV GL’s material topics VALUE TO CUSTOMERS VALUE TO EMPLOYEES VALUE TO SOCIETY Sustainable innovations Employee health and safety Ethics and integrity Customer satisfaction Talent acquisition Anti-corruption Data privacy and security Employee training and development Fair competition Employee diversity and equal Compliance opportunity Economic contribution Human rights Environment and climate Sustainable procurement For more on DNV GL’s material topics, go to the Sustainability section (page 53). ANNUAL REPORT 2018 17 WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US Value to customers MATERIAL ISSUES 01 Sustainable innovations 02 Customer satisfaction 03 Data privacy and security IMPORTANT EXTERNALLY BECAUSE Our customers rely on our products We strive to be the preferred choice Our customers expect us and services to help them operate for industry-leading customers and to protect their privacy. safely and sustainably and meet to ensure they are satisfied that we their sustainability goals. deliver high quality services and remain a trusted partner. IMPORTANT INTERNALLY BECAUSE Supporting customers with sustainable Our dedication to customers leads The trust of our customers innovations reflects our purpose to a clear set of priorities and is crucial to our business. to ‘safeguard life, property and the continuous learning among employees environment’ and our vision of ‘global in order to gain new skills and impact for a safe and sustainable future’. expertise to assist them. Read more on page 54 Read more on page 56 Read more on page 58 Value to employees MATERIAL ISSUES 01 Employee health 02 Talent acquisition 03 Employee training 04 Diversity and equal 05 Human rights and safety and development opportunity IMPORTANT EXTERNALLY BECAUSE Our suppliers perOur customers rely Our customers use Diversity among Awareness of human form better in a safe on us to recruit and us for our expertise employees provides rights is growing working environment. retain experts, and and ability to a better basis for among stakeholders. Our customers buyappreciate long-term deliver solutions. delivering excellent Large businesses need ing safety services relationships with services to our diverse to show they respect expect high safety these experts. customer base. human rights in their performance. sphere of influence. IMPORTANT INTERNALLY BECAUSE We strive to be the Recruiting employees Responsibility for, and We want the best people, Ensuring we respect the safest place to work and with values aligned development of, expertise regardless of background, rights of our employees because of this, safety with DNV GL reduces provide motivation to and we want to be an and others involved in is embedded in our business risk and supports excel and innovate in all attractive place to work our business is critical to purpose and vision. longer careers. parts of the company. in all our locations. sustainable operations. Read more on page 60 Read more on page 60 Read more on page 66 Read more on page 66 Read more on page 66 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO US Value to society MATERIAL ISSUES 01 Ethics and integrity 02 Anti-corruption 03 Fair competition 04 Compliance IMPORTANT EXTERNALLY BECAUSE All stakeholders expect Our stakeholders expect Our policy is to compete Complying with all laws and us to demonstrate sound a strong approach to antivigorously and fairly. regulations in the countries business ethics, upholding corruption and it is key We never agree commercial we operate in is an essential our ability to act as a part of our approach policy or pricing with comingredient for building trusted independent party. to ethical conduct. petitors or external parties. trust with stakeholders. IMPORTANT INTERNALLY BECAUSE “We never compromise We have a zero-tolerance Our employees have an A compliance culture is on integrity” is a policy against corruption and important role to play essential part of ensuring company value. trading in influence. All in ensuring we compete compliance. Our compliance employees have a duty to fairly and comply with programme works to develop uphold this approach. competition law. employee awareness and understanding. Read more on page 74 Read more on page 74 Read more on page 74 Read more on page 74 Value to society MATERIAL ISSUES 04 Economic contribution 05 Environment and climate 06 Sustainable procurement IMPORTANT EXTERNALLY BECAUSE Our owner requires profitable Our stakeholders expect us to Helps meet stakeholder expectaoperations and society at large contribute to science-based argets tions by demonstrating sound business appreciates employment, taxes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions ethics and supports our position and other economic activity. and to pursue opportunities related as a trusted independent party. to climate change resilience. IMPORTANT INTERNALLY BECAUSE Economic sustainability is a Environmental sustainability is Helps manage risk in our supply chain prerequisite for running our embedded in our purpose and vision. and deliver best value for DNV GL. business and for retaining Science based actions to build our independence. climate change resilience is important to our people. Read more on page 78 Read more on page 80 Read more on page 83 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 19 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION DIGITALIZATION AND DECARBONIZATION In a fast-changing world, characterised by escalating geopolitical and environmental risk, we see an urgent and growing need for our role in stimulating innovative solutions and in setting standards for safe and sustainable operations. DNV GL continues to invest 5% of its revenues in strategic research, technology development and innovation efforts. 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION Digitalization and decarbonization are the two megatrends defining this era of speed and complexity. Together, they are driving a relentless quest for efficiencies, and that in turn creates a growing need to ensure that efficiency gains do not compromise safety. Joint industry projects Group technology and research DNV GL is leveraging its role as an independent party with Our long-term research programmes are intended to help prepare no vested interest in proprietary technologies or solutions our customers and ourselves for the future by generating new to lead a range of joint industry projects (JIP). These projects knowledge in key technology areas that have a long-term impact are vital mechanisms, linking the private sector, academia and on the industries we serve. regulatory authorities in co-creating technological solutions, and global rules, standards and guidelines. We constantly evaluate the impact of our findings on our customers and their markets, and tailor our research programmes to respond Through 2018, there were close to 100 joint industry projects to developing trends. Current research activities are directed active across the DNV GL group, focusing primarily on efficiency towards facilitating sustainable, integrated energy solutions, and safety. Learn more about our latest collaborative projects. mastering digital technologies and facilitating safe, secure and efficient operation of cyber physical systems as well as exploring future profitable business and delivery models. OPEN SIMULATION PLATFORM The Open Simulation Platform initiative progressed The ecosystem will include a virtual yard for during 2018, adding new partners and conducting assembling models and subsystems into larger its first workshops. This JIP is developing an open systems and entire vessels, and a simulation ecosystem in which stakeholders can share models infrastructure for design, virtual commissioning, and digital twin components while protecting troubleshooting, training, operational planning their intellectual property rights. and change management. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 21 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION The present research portfolio includes programmes on: Most of our research programmes are also staffed with experts on assignment from business operations, and all our Maritime – research and innovation that contributes to safer, programmes involve a wide range of collaborative projects smarter and greener shipping, while preparing DNV GL for leveraging co-funding from a range of sources. future developments in technology and regulations The programmes regularly issue position papers to highlight Oil and Gas – helping to position DNV GL at the forefront research findings and advance knowledge and progress on of risk-based and model-centric services on a system level safer, smarter and greener operations. During 2018, a dozen position papers were published and broadly shared with the Power and Renewables – building competence, methods public. and tools to achieve competitive advantage and prepare DNV GL for the future of the rapidly changing energy industry The 2018 Group Technology and Research Review provides a guide to recent position papers, selected research projects, Precision medicine – developing knowledge, technologies, technical competence building activities and our collaboration and business models that contribute to the safe and with universities. In addition, the review includes a compresustainable clinical implementation of precision medicine hensive publications list. This list includes our comprehensive to improve the quality of care for the benefit of patients and well-received 2018 Energy Transition Outlook 2050. Digital assurance – exploring digital technologies to build new positions and competencies, and developing methods Our top three position papers in 2018 and technologies to master the assurance of complex and AI and Safety intelligent systems Big Med Ocean space – building knowledge, methods and tools Making renewables smarter supporting the sustainable management of ocean-based industries Energy transition – help DNV GL and its stakeholders to understand rapid and deep changes in the energy landscape 22 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 RESEARCH AND INNOVATION deliverables to customers, including maritime, where decarboniEnergy Transition Outlook zation and the effects of the transition on seaborne trade patterns are increasingly important topics. For DNV GL, and for most of our customers, the coming energy Our Outlook is a forecast – our best estimate of the likely energy transition is both the greatest source of risk and the greatest future – and not simply a scenario. Our extensive forecast data, source of opportunity in the coming decades. Understanding which covers ten world regions and the key sources of energy this transition is essential. It will shape the world we live in, and demand and supply, is also accessible via our industry data we must adapt our knowledge and services accordingly. platform, Veracity.com, to enrich discussions and enhance due diligence and planning exercises. In September 2018, we issued our second Energy Transition Outlook, a global and regional forecast of the energy transition Over 100 DNV GL experts are involved in the production of through to 2050. The report – and its supplements, focusing on the Outlook, which is reviewed by a large network of external the practical implications of the energy transition for the core experts. Broadly speaking, we forecast a rapid energy transition, industries served by DNV GL – proved even more popular than with renewables and fossil sources split roughly equally by 2050. our inaugural Outlook, becoming one of the most-downloaded We predict that pervasive electrification and energy efficiency publications ever issued by DNV GL. gains are likely to lead to a flattening of overall energy demand, despite continued growth in population and GDP. Our report serves as a gateway for many strategic and relevant customer discussions, and informs many aspects of our ENERGY TRANSITION MARITIME ENERGY TRANSITION ENERGY TRANSITION OUTLOOK 2018 FORECAST TO 2050 OUTLOOK 2018 OUTLOOK 2018 A global and regional forecast to 2050 Energy transition outlook 2018 OIL AND GAS POWER SUPPLY Forecast to 2050 AND USE Forecast to 2050 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER World primary energy supply by source 700 600 Wind 500 Solar PV Solar thermal Units: EJ/yr 400 Hydropower Biomass 300 Geothermal 200 Nuclear fuels Natural gas 100 Oil 0 Coal 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 23 THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee is the Group President & CEO’s management team. It deals with issues and decisions related to strategy, markets and customers, target setting, financial development, investments, performance management, REMI ERIKSEN DITLEV ENGEL mergers and acquisitions, pricing strategy and major management appointments. Group President & CEO CEO Energy In 2018, the Executive Committee consisted Remi Eriksen (Norwegian) became Group Ditlev Engel (Danish) was Group President & CEO of ten people: the Group President and CEO, President and CEO of DNV GL in August 2015, of global wind turbine manufacturer Vestas Wind the CEOs of the five business areas, the succeeding Henrik O. Madsen. He was Systems A/S from 2005 to 2013. Prior to joining Chief Financial Officer, Chief People Officer, previously the Chief Operating Officer of Vestas, he had 20 years of experience at the Chief Communications Officer and Chief the DNV GL Group, having served as CEO global coatings manufacturer Hempel A/S, Digital Transformation Officer of DNV Maritime and Oil & Gas and in other the last five years as Group President & CEO. senior roles in Asia, Europe and the Americas. Klas Bendrik took up the newly established Ditlev was appointed Denmark’s Special Envoy position as Chief Digital Transformation Amongst many other leadership roles, he is for Climate and Energy towards the end of 2018. Officer in September 2018. Elisabeth Tørstad on the Executive Committee of World Business Ditlev has also served as chair of Denmark’s Green left DNV GL to become CEO of Asplan Viak Council for Sustainable Business Development Investment Fund, a member of the Energy Partner in January 2019. Peter Bjerager is currently (WBCSD), and provides critical guidance to the Network of the World Economic Forum, advisor the interim CEO of Digital Solutions. WBCSD Low Carbon Technology Partnerships to the International Energy Agency, chair of the initiative (LCTPi). Green Growth Working Group at G20 Summits, co-founder of the Green Growth Action Alliance He holds a Master’s in Electronics and Computer and member of UN’s Sustainable Energy for All. Science from the Norwegian Institute of TechnolHe has degrees in business administration, ogy and executive education from Rice University, finance & accounting from Copenhagen Business IMD and INSEAD. Remi joined DNV GL in 1993. School and the General Management Programme from INSEAD. Ditlev joined DNV GL in 2016. KNUT ØRBECK-NILSSEN LUCA CRISCIOTTI CEO Maritime CEO Business Assurance Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen (Norwegian) has been Luca Crisciotti (Italian) became the CEO heading our Maritime business area since of Business Assurance in March 2012. August 2015. Prior to that he was the Chief Operating Officer and President of Maritime With a background in the certification and Director of Division Europe, Africa & industry, Luca started his career in DNV GL as Americas. a Sales Manager in Rome, Italy. He continued as the Business Development Manager for Knut has held senior management posiDivision South Europe before moving to tions within both maritime and oil & gas. Japan for three years as Country Manager. He holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree He then moved to Shanghai, Greater China, from Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh, taking over as COO. Luca has a master’s Scotland, where he was awarded a First degree in Business Economics from Class Honour’s Degree in Civil Engineering the University ‘La Sapienza’ in Rome. in 1990. Knut joined DNV GL in 1990. Luca joined DNV GL in 2001. 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 LIV A. HOVEM ELISABETH TØRSTAD THOMAS VOGTH-ERIKSEN CEO Oil & Gas CEO Digital Solutions (until January 2019) Chief Financial Officer Liv A. Hovem (Norwegian) became the CEO of Elisabeth Tørstad (Norwegian) became the CEO Thomas Vogth-Eriksen (Norwegian) has been Oil & Gas in January 2018. She has experience of Digital Solutions in January 2018. She has two Chief Financial Officer since 2012. He held from several managerial roles in DNV GL, most decades in management positions at DNV GL, several senior management positions in recently as Regional Manager for Continental most recently as CEO in business area Oil & Gas. DNV GL before that, most recently as the Europe, Eurasia, Middle East, India and Africa Prior to that role, she served as Chief TechnolCEO of Business Assurance, the certification in Oil & Gas. She has served as board member ogy Officer, as well as Chief Operating Officer arm of the DNV GL Group. Thomas brings in several research and innovation related for Maritime and Oil & Gas the Americas and international experience of almost 15 years institutions. She currently serves on the Sub-Saharan Africa division. from New York, London, Shanghai, and Milan. Board of the NTNU Research Centre AMOS – Centre for Autonomous Marine Operations Elisabeth has a cross-disciplinary background He has served as board member in Internaand Systems. and has held management positions with global tional Association of Certification bodies responsibilities within the Maritime, Oil & Gas and the Norwegian Chambers of Commerce Liv’s technical background is risk and probabiland Renewable Energy business areas. Her in London, Oslo and Shanghai. Thomas has istic modelling, hydrodynamics and strength academic background includes a Cand. Scient. a Master of Business & Economics, Business of ships and offshore structures. She has a MSc degree in Physics from the University of Oslo Administration from the Norwegian Business in Naval Architecture and Offshore Engineering and a degree in Business Administration from School, and executive education from IMD from UC Berkeley and a MSc in Civil Engineerthe Norwegian School of Management. and Insead. Thomas joined DNV GL in 1988. ing from the Norwegian Technical University. Elisabeth joined DNV GL in 1995. Liv joined DNV GL in 1988. GRO GOTTEBERG ULRIKE HAUGEN KLAS BENDRIK Chief People Officer Chief Communications Officer Chief Digital Transformation Officer Gro Gotteberg (Norwegian) has been the Chief Ulrike Haugen (German) joined DNV GL as Klas Bendrik (Swedish) has been Chief Digital People Officer at DNV GL since December 2017. Chief Communications Officer in May 2017. Transformation Officer since joining DNV GL She has had several roles within DNV GL, as She has more than 15 years of communications, in September 2018. HR Director and in Leadership Development, marketing and business development experimost recently as HR Manager in South East ence within international corporations with Klas has held executive roles in several industries Asia & Australia. Prior to that, she had several positions in Norway, UK, Germany and Italy. from automotive, medical and industrial equiproles within organizational and competence ment to management consulting with global firms. development in shipping, management conUlrike was previously VP Marketing & CommuKlas’ field of expertise is within Information Techsultancy and developing aid & rescue relief. nications for ABB Marine, and has also held nology, software, digital and business development. marketing and business development posiPrior to joining DNV GL, his most recent positions Gro has a Master of Business & Economics tions in international energy companies and were as Senior Vice President for Volvo Cars and, from NHH Norwegian School of Economics and law firms. Ulrike holds a Master of Business most recently, Vice President and Executive Partner brings 15 years of international experience Administration degree from London South at Gartner. Klas holds a bachelor’s degree from from Africa, Americas and South East Asia. Bank University in the UK and a Law Degree the University of Gothenburg and a degree from Gro joined DNV GL in 2008. from the University of Bonn in Germany. the Royal Swedish Naval Academy, with the rank Ulrike joined DNV GL in 2017. of Lieutenant Captain. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 25 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MARKETS We assist our customers in identifying, assessing and managing their most critical risks. We enhance their business performance by assessing and advising on safety, quality, technology, business and sustainability aspects. We certify or verify compliance and drive new standards, best practices and digital ecosystems within five markets: maritime, oil and gas, energy, business assurance, and digital solutions. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 27 MARITIME MODERN CLASS In 2018, the maritime industry continued to rebound as vessel ordering and transport demand increased. On the regulatory side, the new IMO greenhouse gas reduction strategy put the challenge of decarbonizing shipping front and centre. At DNV GL, we helped customers navigate these new waters while enhancing safety and sustainability. 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MARITIME 2018 REVIEW Standards for the future of shipping Digitalization is starting to have an impact on the shape of the maritime industry and the first commercial autonomous vessels are due to launch in the next few years. To help build a safety 100 000 In 2018, over 100,000 electronic certificates culture around these new technologies, DNV GL released a new were issued to DNV GL classed vessels. class guideline covering autonomous and remotely operated ships. The guideline covers navigation, vessel engineering, remote control centres and communications. Cruise’s new ICON DNV GL is very proud to have signed a contract for the classification of Royal Caribbean International’s new ICON Class vessels. The design of these vessels uses the most advanced technologies available to reduce the ships’ environmental impact. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) is envisioned as the primary fuel for the new vessels, and would dramatically reduce or even eliminate emissions of nitrogen oxide (NOX), sulphur oxide (SOX) and particulates, as well as cutting carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. The ICON Class will also introduce fuel cell technology which, in combination with hull air lubrication, means the ships could Particular emphasis is given to two key areas that emerge from the potentially be some of the most fuel-efficient cruise vessels reliance of autonomous and remote concepts on software and ever constructed. communications systems: cyber security and software testing. Both the concept-qualification process and technology-qualification process include cyber-security aspects in the risk analysis. Not only the systems themselves, but also the associated infrastructure and network components, servers, operator stations and other endpoints should all take cyber security into account, incorporating multiple layers of defence where possible. In terms of software, the quality assurance of software-based systems is essential, and a well-established development process and multifaceted end-product testing strategy should be used to ensure safe operations. REVENUE EMPLOYEES Maritime’s share of total (19,639) 6 702 NOK MILLION Maritime’s share of total (12,101) 3 484 EMPLOYEES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 29 MARITIME A year of achievement at IACS DNV GL – Maritime CEO Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen held the chairmanship of International Association of Classification Societies (IACS) from July 2017 to June 2018. When he handed over to the new chairman, he could look back on a year of many accomplishments. Highlights included achieving full compliance with the International Maritime Organization’s Goal Based Standards. IACS undertook a substantial revision of membership criteria and a new internal benchmarking process to support members in improving their performance while also increasing the transparency of members’ quality performance. Cyber security first Programmable control systems are an essential part of ships and offshore units, but their increasing integration and connectivity make these systems a target for cyber-security threats. To help shipowners and operators protect their assets, DNV GL released the Cyber secure class notations. These notations have three different qualifiers: Basic, Advanced and +. Basic is primarily intended for ships in operation, while Advanced is designed to be applied throughout the newbuilding process, with requirements for asset owners and operators, system inteA working group examined the relevant resolutions on ship grators (e.g. yards), and equipment manufacturers. Basic and autonomy to identify the standards that present potential Advanced cover a number of essential systems, including probarriers to autonomous ship operations, and a pilot project pulsion, steering, navigation and power generation. The third looked at how to overcome these barriers. A joint industry qualifier, +, is intended for systems that are not part of the default working group focused on cyber safety. IACS is also developing scope of Basic/Advanced, giving owners and operators the recommendations to assist shipbuilders in delivering cyberflexibility to identify the threats, conduct an assessment and resilient newbuildings. secure extra systems which are important to their operations. 50% target set by International Maritime 42% reduction in CO2 emissions with new Organization (IMO) to cut greenhouse E-shuttle tanker concept developed by gases from shipping by 2050. Teekay with Wärtsila and DNV GL support. 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MARITIME To help the technology spread, in 2018 DNV GL released the Maritime forecast to 2050 – the carbon robust ship first approval of manufacturer (AoM) scheme for manufacturers wishing to supply products that comply with class rules and standards. The AoM programme verifies a manufacturer’s ability to manufacture materials and products in accordance with DNV GL rules. In 2018, DNV GL also opened the Global Additive Manufacturing Centre of Excellence in Singapore, an incubator and testbed for research into and the development of AM technology for the oil & gas, offshore and marine sectors. New perspectives on alternative fuels 2018 saw the release of the second Maritime Forecast to 2050, an independent forecast of the maritime energy future and how the energy transition will affect the shipping industry. The new forecast focusses on the challenges of decarbonizing the shipping industry. It further develops the concept of the “carbon robust” ship with a new model that now evaluates fuel and technology options by comparing the break-even costs of a design to that of the competing fleet of ships. This supports maritime stakeholders in evaluating the long-term competitiveness of their vessels and fleet and future-proofing their assets. A case study revealed some striking findings, including that investing in energy efficiency and a reduced carbon footprint beyond existing standards can increase the competitiveness of a vessel over its lifetime, and that high-emitting vessels could The rapidly approaching 2020 fuel sulphur cap and newly be exposed to significant market risks in 2030 and 2040. announced IMO greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction strategy have put the spotlight on alternative fuels for shipping. In 2018, DNV GL launched the Alternative Fuels Insight (AFI) platform to give the industry a comprehensive and continually updated overview of alternative fuel projects, bunkering infrastructures, Adding layers to classification suppliers and technologies, such as scrubbers. The platform consolidates a wealth of detailed technical information on these fuels and technologies and examines their capabilities and limitations, as well as giving practical insights into their implementation and operation. Additionally, a new DNV GL white paper, “Alternative fuels and technologies for greener shipping”, examines the price, availability, regulatory challenges and environmental benefits of alternative fuels and technologies, including LNG, LPG, hydrogen, fuel cells, and hybrid and battery technologies, and compares them to the use of conventional fuel with scrubbers and new low-sulphur alternatives. It identifies and examines the factors that will affect the uptake and acceptance of alternative fuels and technologies in shipping, including: environmental compatibility, availability, fuel costs and the international rules within the IGF Code. Additive manufacturing (AM) is a term covering processes that create objects by adding layers of material, and includes technologies like 3D printing and rapid prototyping. AM holds a great deal of promise for shipping, allowing products and components to be printed as needed, even on board vessels and offshore installations. It can also be used for maintenance and repair by adding layers of material to worn components. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 31 OIL & GAS ENABLING EFFICIENCY AND DECARBONIZATION Oil and gas activity started to pick up in 2018 as projects were redesigned for lower break-even points. To support efficient investment, DNV GL helped customers to retain their focus on cost-efficiency, safety and sustainability amid the energy transition. 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 OIL & GAS 2018 REVIEW The Outlook forecast that while demand for oil will peak in 2023, Oil and gas confidence revives and for gas in about 2034, new production capacity for both will be needed until at least the 2040s for oil, and to beyond 2050 for gas. The model predicted that gas will overtake oil to become the world’s largest source of energy in 2026, then continue to play a key role alongside renewables in meeting future, lower-carbon energy requirements through to at least the middle of the century. In confirming that the energy transition is under way, the now widely-cited Outlook reflected our customers’ other key focus in 2018: decarbonization. The accelerating transition is influencing the entire oil and gas value chain, which is displaying not only a continued strong interest in building portfolios of gas, the least carbon-intensive fossil fuel, but also energy portfolios with reduced carbon intensity. Malaysia’s Petronas became the latest oil and gas major to announce, in late 2018, that it will invest in building a strong presence in renewable energy. Norway’s Statoil rebranded itself as Equinor in line with its strategy to become a diversified energy company with a greater share of renewables and Our research on the outlook for the oil and gas industry in carbon capture and storage in its investment portfolio. 2018 reported a sharp increase in confidence for the sector compared with 2017. 63% of the senior oil and gas professionals surveyed were confident about growth in the industry, nearly double the 32% reported in 2017. Keeping costs down Oil prices remained stable until volatility increased late in 2018. Brent spot prices were between 50 USD per barrel (USD/bbl) and USD/bbl 86 in 2018, ending the year at USD/bbl 50.6. In 2017, the range was USD/bbl 44 to USD/bbl 67. Gas spot price averages for NBP and Henry Hub were respectively 19.1% and 1.1% higher last year than in 2017. Unlike in previous upturns, customers continue to target efficiency to maintain reasonable margins at current oil prices. In our research, nearly two-thirds (62%) of the industry’s leaders said cost-efficiency measures introduced since 2014 are now permanent. The in-depth analysis in DNV GL’s 2018 Energy Transition Outlook, our independent model of world energy supply and demand, reinforced why the industry must remain lean and Oil and gas industry confidence rebounded sharply in 2018. agile. It needs to stay cost-competitive as the cost of producing Activity in our markets started rising as the go-ahead was renewables will likely continue to fall. given to development projects re-engineered to break even in the lower oil price era. REVENUE EMPLOYEES Oil & Gas’ share of total (19,639) 4 455 NOK MILLION Oil & Gas’ share of total (12,101) 2 264 EMPLOYEES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 33 OIL & GAS However, with operators focused on efficient investment to keep oil and gas relevant in a decarbonizing world of ever-cheaper 63% renewable energy, the industry was keeping the lid on costs. Supply chain margins therefore remained under pressure. We have responded by adjusting our strategy to focus on initiatives enhancing the efficiency of our project delivery and existing services, while also developing new digital competence and service offerings to help us remain relevant to customers. have confidence in industry growth. This has risen globally from 32% For example, we began rolling out a new project management when surveyed in 2017. and production system (Teamcenter) across the Oil & Gas business area, to be fully implemented by the second half of 2019. Through this, we will deliver all projects except Inspection, redefining how we share knowledge, collaborate on projects and communicate with customers. We will use it to be more efficient in bids and projects, and strive to have immediate access to information on every proposal, project and asset we have 66% worked on using a product lifecycle management approach. We reinforced our ability to provide foresight and support successful operations through our technical assurance and advisory services, and introduced new and updated standards and best practice guidelines. Our goal remains to help oil and gas operations become faster, leaner and cleaner as of senior oil and gas professionals companies embrace the energy transition. surveyed in 2018 said their company will maintain or increase spending in 2019. Source: DNV GL Oil & Gas Industry Outlook 2018 Raising efficiency through digital innovation We continued to develop digital innovations and services, This complements our new container certification service, helping customers to address challenges and facilitating an online tool that we launched to reduce design-approval collaboration to achieve cost efficiency. turnaround times by up to 50% It addresses global requirements for companies to produce approved container designs Remote digital technology enabling live-streamed inspections in shorter timeframes while manufacturing approved and and surveys can boost cost efficiency and flexibility in the certified units more cost-efficiently. oil and gas value chain. We successfully piloted it in 2018 with companies including contractor Saipem and manufacturer We started discussions with major pipeline operators and Cameron, a Schlumberger company. international oil companies on piloting the digital models developed collaboratively with the industry for our Pipeline Evaluation Portal. The portal eases access to our proprietary data-based models covering threats, hazards and operational Watch video variables that can impact on risk. With 3D printing promising efficiency, safety and sustainability benefits to our industry, we opened a Global Additive Manufacturing Centre of Excellence as an incubator and testbed for research and development. Our Singapore facility aims to become DNV GL’s global competence and service delivery centre for assurance and advisory services relating to 3D printing and allied technologies. 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 OIL & GAS Amid increasing attention being paid to cyber risks in the oil and gas industry, we obtained ISO 27001 certification to prove that Supporting efficiency and safety upstream we can we can be trusted to keep customers’ data safe, and is directly linked to our strategic focus on digitalization and quality. We also achieved ISO 9001 certification in 2018, showing that we have a robust quality management system for our service delivery. Expanding midstream and downstream We continued to widen our involvement with the oil and gas transmission, refining, petrochemical and gas distribution sectors. For example, we began providing assessments of remaining asset life with risk-based inspections and Synergi Plant risk-management software to Korea Western Power’s Taean integrated gasification combined cycle power plant, an eco-friendly technology. We opened a dedicated centre in Groningen, the Netherlands, to test the composition of liquefied natural gas (LNG) super-rapidly and enable its safer and more efficient use. The composition of LNG varies by source, meaning downstream suppliers and users With our 2018 Energy Transition Outlook indicating the need need to accurately measure the LNG’s energy content. for massive investment in new oil and gas production in coming decades, we maintained our mission to assist the Collaborating with gas transmission system operator SoCalGas, upstream industry to remain sustainable in the energy transition. we piloted MARVTM, our smarter data-driven approach to For instance, we provided offshore safety guidance to the pipeline risk assessment, in the US. This showed that MARVTM Greek Regulator. Greece now has a world-class regulatory could potentially help to direct data gathering, enable the better framework promoting safety in its offshore oil and gas industry allocation of resources, and assist in quantifying benefits from and confidence for investors. pipeline investments. We commissioned the world’s largest industrial explosion chamber at our Spadeadam Research and Testing facility in the UK. This is already in use for a JIP aiming to safely reduce the complexity and over-design in current explosion-protection models and methodologies. We also progressed a JIP examining the impact of phasecontamination on oil flow meters. The accurate measurement of production from oil fields can reduce financial risks when exploration and production companies are allocating resources. Our recommended practices and standards continue to drive efficiencies and improve safety in the offshore oil and gas industry. In 2018, DNV GL Noble Denton marine services released a new online edition of ST-N001 Marine operations and marine warranty, the most comprehensive standard of its kind. We also published a Recommended Practice for wellhead fatigue analysis to improve its consistency in the industry. Among a string of upstream business wins worldwide, we landed a cross-service contract to support Shell’s Penguins Field redevelopment offshore UK, a general regulatory compliance contract Among 39 joint industry projects (JIP) under way in 2018, we with Yinson Production, a Malaysian FPSO lease contractor, as launched phase two of a JIP aiming to determine pipeline well as a testing contract with the American Petroleum Institute concrete coating behaviour in order to save significant costs aiming to improve fatigue assessments of critical bolted during installation and operation. connections, particularly in subsea applications. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 35 ENERGY SMARTER POWER SUPPLY Electricity demand is set to more than double by 2050, and solar PV and wind power will supply most of that electricity. The increasing variability of energy supply will lead to a need for smarter energy systems with greater flexibility and storage. We help customers to manage risks throughout their project lifecycle, advising on the flexible integration of renewables, infrastructure resilience, the use of sensor-derived data, and new and emerging technologies for storage and interconnectivity between grids. 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENERGY 2018 REVIEW Investing in renewables Electricity storage Renewables are growing faster, and increasingly it is investor and consumer awareness driving the transition. Brands and companies are taking the lead by clean energy deals as part of their corporate social responsibility initiatives. DNV GL is helping to secure investments for these relatively new players by performing technical due diligences for the 25 MW Windfloat Atlantic project, the 294 MW Bjerkem cluster, the 659 MW Walney Extension and many other projects. Where sustainability is an essential part of a company’s business model but not its core business, DNV GL supports these companies by offering a variety of services ranging from feasibility to installation and commissioning, followed by 24/7 monitoring of the assets. A project involving 14 warehouse-rooftop PV systems with a total installed capacity of 10 MW was technically secured with the help of DNV GL. The variability of renewable energy sources requires the provision of additional flexibility, including utility-scale battery storage. Not only utilities are looking into energy storage solutions. Governments are setting policy targets and communities are already implementing their own storage capacity. In Australia, DNV GL is leading efforts to create a new performance standard for domestic-scale energy storage that will help residential and smaller commercial consumers make more informed buying decisions. In Europe, DNV GL performed a feasibility study showing the economic viability of gridconnected energy storage solutions. These community battery systems can solve grid congestion Financial business cases are built on reliable and accurate models problems as an alternative to grid expansion and serve more and predictions. DNV GL is helping to improve wind farm energy than one user: the owner, operating company and grid operator. output predictions by incorporating more data on potential blockage In the US, DNV GL has released its first annual Battery Perforeffects to counter overprediction of production capacity. Blockage mance Scorecard to help equip energy storage product buyers sources are now embedded in our wind resource models. with objective data to guide their purchase strategies. REVENUE EMPLOYEES Energy’s share of total (19,639) 3 620 NOK MILLION Energy’s share of total (12,101) 2 246 EMPLOYEES ANNUAL REPORT 2018 37 ENERGY Turkey plans to reach its national renewable energy target of 30% by 2030. DNV GL is performing a feasibility study of combined 24/7 performance monitoring through digitalization solar and energy storage solutions. New storage technologies are being reviewed and technical specifications drafted, leading to a lower levelized cost of energy from solar power in Turkey. In the UK, energy storage experts provided technical advice and due diligence to secure the acquisition of a 10 MW project in Essex and a 9 MW project in Tilbury, bringing the total investors’ portfolio to 29 MW across four projects. Grid flexibility Variable renewable energy sources and increasing electricity demand is also leading to new solutions in grid technology. Grid operations must switch from a situation where demand varies and generation adjusts, to one in which generation varies and demand adjusts. The lowest-cost options take advantage of existing infrastructure combined with advanced information technology to more efficiently match electricity supply and demand. Following the development of its grid-connected energy storage recommended practice, DNV GL has developed the StRe@M model, which is able Digitalization is helping the shift to renewables, enabling greater to capture and determine the stackable revenues of flexibility efficiencies and better control of operations. In 2018, DNV GL resources. launched the world’s first data monitoring platform which integrates wind, solar and energy storage systems, GPM Horizon. This allows renewable energy developers to take advantage of digital technologies and run assets in a much smarter way. The system now monitors 22 GW of renewables across sites worldwide. DNV GL’s Smart Cable Guard detects the location of online electrical cable network failures with an accuracy of more than 99% and can prevent 65% of such failures through its advanced partial discharge and short circuit current detection mechanism. Only launched in mid-2017, Smart Cable Guard now has more than 1,600 cable circuits under online monitoring, avoiding 9 million outage minutes each year – a number expected to double each year. There is little room for downtime and under-performance of energy Adding renewable energy sources to existing grid infrastructures assets. The WindGEMINI online digital twin is an advanced wind requires sound asset data and smart project development decision turbine condition and performance analytics tool, comprising tools. The Renewables GeoPlatform application is a one-stop power-performance and structural-integrity monitoring of wind platform for geospatial data that encompasses resource models turbines by leveraging both the operational SCADA data and and mapping systems integrating decades of modelled data. DNV GL’s physics-based simulation models. 9 mill. outage minutes each year saved by 99% accuracy of Smart Cable Guard prevents Smart Cable Guard; a number expected 65% of online electrical power cable to double each year. network failures. 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ENERGY Digitalization in certification The wind turbine market is becoming increasingly competitive and consolidated. International tendering is the norm and contracts are awarded to the suppliers that can deliver turbines to suit the specific site conditions in a short timeframe, with a 320 kV HVDC gas-insulated switchgear valid turbine type certificate. prototype successfully tested. MyCertificate is the first interactive, digital certificate configurator for wind turbines, providing a real-time overview of all the component variants used in a particular turbine type. Users can immediately check the certification status of any custom configuration of a wind turbine type and generate a tailored certificate. contracted to deliver the complete project certification for two offshore substations with a capacity of 700 MW each in the Dutch North Sea. Led by the Global Wind Energy Council, DNV GL authored the technical reports identifying potential zones for 1 GW of future offshore wind farms in two states in India. At the same time, DNV GL’s KEMA Laboratories tested the 320 kV HVDC gas-insulated switchgear prototype as part of the PROMOTioN project. The PROMOTioN project aims to tackle technical, regulatory, financial and legal challenges to the implementation of offshore meshed HVDC transmission networks. New technologies like large offshore wind turbines with an Energy efficiency output rate of 8 MW are vital to help the growing wind energy industry reduce the levelized cost of energy. DNV GL helped Siemens Gamesa to obtain a type certificate for their cuttingThis year, DNV GL concluded a project helping a leading provider edge turbine technology. of innovative solutions in the fields of polyolefins, base chemicals and fertilizers in Europe to cut over 360,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions annually. Over the course of four years, an ISO 50001 compliant energy management system was implemented, Going offshore leading to reductions in costs and emissions. Cities are seeking to accelerate the shift to cleaner, more efficient and decarbonized energy supply and use. Through our report ‘Energy transition framework for cities’, we provide an opportunity for utilities, energy providers, policymakers, financiers and investors, and cities alike to gain insight into the actions of cities and local government in the transition from fossil-fuel based energy resources to cleaner, renewable forms of energy. Offshore wind farms are being developed further out to sea. China has developed nearly all wind farm sites within 10 km of the shore and is now exploring up to 90 km offshore. The creation of offshore HVDC transmission systems, including offshore HVDC converter stations and submarine cables, extend existing HVAC grids. DNV GL has been contracted to provide technical advisory support on feasibility studies for the first-ever HVDC offshore wind substation to be built in China. In Europe, DNV GL is ANNUAL REPORT 2018 39 BUSINESS ASSURANCE TAKING A LEAD IN DIGITAL ASSURANCE Businesses are facing rapid change, digital transformation and increased complexity entailing a growing need for assurance services. Companies are increasingly expected to manage their value chains and communicate reliable and sustainable performance to stakeholders and consumers. The ways to manage performance and assurance solutions are evolving to enable the right type of communication and build the necessary trust. 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BUSINESS ASSURANCE 2018 REVIEW We are growing our overall market position and continuing A leading global provider of management our dedicated work to innovate and digitalize processes and audit tools in order to become more efficient and drive addisystem certification tional value for our customers from the certification process. This includes further advancing our audit methodology Risk Based Certification™ by developing a digital focus area library We strengthened our position as a leader in management and implementing this into our auditing tools. system certification, supported by the transition to the new versions of ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. We successfully helped The focus area library helps our customers identify areas of customers transition to the new ISO standard versions by importance for their business strategy and we then focus the the September deadline. Our customers tell us, through our audit on these. It also allows us to analyse the performance ViewPoint Espresso Survey, that they have derived specific of specific focus areas across the customer base, using our benefits and value by implementing the new requirements performance benchmarking tool Lumina™. in the new versions of the standards. REVENUE EMPLOYEES Business Assurance’s 3 645 NOK MILLION Business Assurance’s 1 908 EMPLOYEES share of total share of total (19,639) (12,101) ANNUAL REPORT 2018 41 BUSINESS ASSURANCE Watch video Developing product assurance As a result of investments and strategic refocusing of the service line in the previous year, we continue to show exceptional growth in product assurance. Special emphasis was placed on the market sectors and we discontinued several minor schemes or transitioned them to key strategic partners to focus on growing the core of this business. We acquired full ownership of DNV GL Nemko Presafe (Presafe). Presafe comprises two operational units in Norway and Denmark which are accredited certification and EU notified bodies for the Medical Devices Directive, In-Vitro Diagnostic Devices Directive and Equipment and Protective Systems Intended for Use in Potentially Explosive Atmospheres (ATEX) Directive. Taking a lead in digital assurance Through our pioneering developments and partnership with blockchain technology company VeChain, we have piloted and launched blockchain-based solutions to enable trust in supply chains and products. My Story™ is a solution that gives consumers access to verified data stored in a public blockchain. It allows companies to tell the true and verified story of their product – from quality, origin and authenticity to ethical, societal and environmental aspects of the supply chain. For companies serious about sustainable value chains, it is a means to effectively bridge the existing trust gap between their efforts and consumers’ concerns. My Story is applicable to any supply chain for consumer-packaged goods. We also expanded the digital assurance concept to build The single ownership allows us to create a more focused trust in circular and sharing economy business models that service delivery organization, removing barriers and enabling help companies create and share value with consumers using us to be more responsive to our customers’ needs. The effect blockchain-powered technology and tokenization. Together of inorganic revenue from Presafe brought significant total with partners, we created a solution to reward enterprises´ and year-on-year growth. consumers´ carbon-cutting behaviours in sharing economies. By rewarding low-carbon activities, the ecosystem can encourage more sustainable behaviours for both enterprises and consumers, with a significant positive impact on the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 40% total growth in product assurance due to strategic refocussing combined with inorganic growth. 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BUSINESS ASSURANCE Increased supply chain pressures Growth in consumer industries We continue to be a significant player in the food & beverage and healthcare industries, and we have a particular focus on these in our strategy. These industry sectors are also central to our digital assurance advancement, for both more radical innovations and incremental developments related to existing assurance and accreditation services. In the food & beverage sector, our growth rate was 11% in 2018. In the healthcare sector, we achieved significant growth in hospitaland disease-specific accreditation to advance patient safety in the US and Greater China. We also achieved significant growth in assessments of disability services in Australia. Subsequently, the growth rate was 14%. Companies today are under pressure to manage performance and value chains in a sustainable and transparent way. At the same time, supply chains are evolving, augmented by digitalization, new regulations and increasing consumer power. The systematic management of supply chain risks throughout all tiers is essential. Beyond our digital efforts, we continued to expand our portfolio of social and ethical audits to recognized brand programmes and independent schemes and expanded our certification to accredited schemes. We have strengthened the portfolio to support specific industry sectors like food & beverage and areas such as energy efficiency, occupational health & safety and environmental management. We were recognized by the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) and Aluminium Stewardship Initiative (ASI) to issue certificates proving compliance with the AWS international standard for water management and ASI certification to players in the aluminium value chain. Our position was further strengthened through relationships and collaboration with recognized international bodies, such as APSCA and the Social & Labour Convergence Project (SLCP). 32% growth in our combined supply 14%growth in the healthcare sector, chain assurance portfolio in 2018. mainly through growth in the US, China and Australia. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 43 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS BUILDING DATA AND SOFTWARE ECOSYSTEMS The Digital Solutions business area had its first year of operation in 2018. We see significant synergies across services, products, technologies and domains. The market for our software and digital solutions also picked up in 2018. 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS 2018 REVIEW Veracity – ready for scale FACTS ABOUT VERACITY Veracity, DNV GL’s data platform and adaptive industry ecoBy the end of 2018, a total of 150 000 users system, was developed together with customers and partners from thousands of companies – with 1.2 million throughout 2018 to be ready for the full-scale onboarding of service subscriptions – were accessing applicaapplications, users and data, and has advanced to the stage of tions, services and data through the platform. general availability. Veracity drives down the cost of innovation and collaboration as well as the cost of deploying new services The Veracity ecosystem is growing in terms of and solutions. providers, digital services, activated users and subscriptions. It now houses 167 operational services provided by DNV GL as well as numerous external service providers. 100 Veracity grew by 100 users a day in 2018 400 developers innovating on the platform The platform provides secure connectivity between industry players, linking asset owners and operators with domain experts and data scientists and enabling the exchange of datasets, 1.2 million service subscriptions APIs, applications and insights. Customers are in key industries such as shipping, offshore, pipeline and renewables. DNV GL provides multiple services to its customers through Veracity. REVENUE EMPLOYEES Digital Solutions’ share of total 912 NOK MILLION Digital Solutions’ share of total 790 EMPLOYEES (19,639) (12,101) ANNUAL REPORT 2018 45 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS In 2018, three major US distribution utilities signed SaaS contracts. Moving to the cloud with Software-as-a-Service In addition, a dozen current customers inquired about future SaaS options. This shows considerable momentum for cloudbased technology in the pipeline ecosystem. Once the largest Digital Solutions is accelerating the transition towards softwareutilities in the market shift to cloud solutions, smaller players as-a-service (SaaS) solutions to give customers the flexibility, will become confident about choosing SaaS. power and insights from advanced analytics in a way that is user-friendly at all levels of the organization. Synergi Life – our quality, health, safety and environment software – was one of our first software solutions to transition to SaaS. 80% of new Synergi Life customers prefer the SaaS version over the on-premise solution. We see the same pattern for existing customers who are upgrading their software. The combination of transitioning to a SaaS solution and integrating with Veracity, DNV GL’s data management platform, allows for data capture, sharing and analysis. This permits new business models and safety insights that can improve the value and relevance for our customers. Synergi Life is also gaining traction in new markets, such as food safety, hospitality and sports. Sesam for offshore wind and aquaculture Sesam, our offshore structural engineering tool, has been upgraded to include support for the complete analysis of floating wind turbine and floating fish cage structures. This covers all stages of their lifecycle, including transportation, installation and decommissioning. Our product for fixed offshore wind structures is now offered as a software-as-aservice (SaaS) solution, enabling customers to efficiently perform computationally demanding simulations. During 2018, Sesam strengthened its position as market leader in the analysis of support structures for offshore wind turbines, both fixed and floating. The market demand for tools for fixed and floating offshore wind and aquaculture Pipeline – momentum in the market constructions is strong, especially in Europe and East Asia, where we have gained many new customers. Synergi Pipeline provides an enterprise solution for risk and other integrity-related analysis. Risk is used to prioritize all aspects of our customers’ business, with the ultimate goal of ensuring public safety and environmental protection. Synergi Pipeline enables a transparent view of risk across the organization, providing a single source of truth for the current condition of assets. Synergi Pipeline is also transitioning to SaaS. Synergi Pipeline’s most recent release supports cloud deployment for the first time, enabling insights based on integrity analytics. 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS Strengthening our renewables ecosystem A renewables ecosystem was formed by moving the renewables software products team from Energy to the Digital Solutions business area. Bladed is a world-leading onshore and offshore wind turbine aero-elastic loading and design software that provides machinery optimization and design confidence to hundreds of wind turbine manufacturers and their customers. It is now combined with the existing renewables software business and its expertise with DNV GL’s broad scientific and risk assessment computing technology. This substantially expands synergies, accelerating the digitalization of renewables services to meet the needs of a decarbonizing world. The team recently launched new wind and solar farm project design and assessment software, WindFarmerAnalyst and SolarFarmer, providing new value to project developers and introducing synergies with our existing DNV GL electric grid portfolio. The renewables ecosystem complements the growing portfolio of digital services offered through Veracity, presenting opportunities for DNV GL to combine datasets and solutions to enhance existing offerings, develop innovative new services and reach new markets. Digital transformation of healthcare Public and private healthcare systems face immense challenges driven by demographic changes, rapid technology developments and the scarcity of health workers. Digital transformation is viewed as a key response. The Digital Health Incubator focuses its efforts on the Norwegian and Nordic markets to build DNV GL’s recognition and credibility in the healthcare domain. DNV GL’s independent role, based on competence, technology and experience from other industry sectors, lends itself to assisting and enabling healthcare’s digital transformation. Our data management, quality, governance, risk and security competence are highly relevant and effective in healthcare as we take on a trusted role for sharing and disseminating present and future health data. DNV GL’s research and development efforts in precision medicine are helping to enable the adoption of clinical genetics in healthcare. Our efforts to deal with fundamental challenges to the healthcare system include data maturity assessments, penetration testing services and collaborative research enabling the clinical use of precision medicine. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 47 SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS Our impact on sustainability is greatest in the services we provide to our customers. The following stories are some of the ways we innovate in partnership with our customers and how we contribute to reaching the Sustainable Development Goals. In focus: fuel efficiency and greenhouse gases With our ECO solutions, we help ship operators reduce their fuel consumption by optimizing the performance of their ships. Currently, more than 200 customers are using our ECO solutions More than 200 customers applying on more than 3,000 vessels, saving a combined 5.7 million tonnes ECO solutions on more than 3,000 vessels of fuel and 18.8 million tonnes of CO2 since 20151. have had the following impact: A specific example is our work with Hamburg-based ship owner, Peter Döhle, to modernize its four largest container ships in 2018. The 12,600 TEU (twenty-foot equivalent unit) ships were built in FUEL SAVED CO2 SAVED 2010 and designed to sail faster than container ships do today. 5.7 18.8 By reviewing optimal engine efficiency for lower speeds, cutting the engine turbochargers and redesigning the ships’ bows, fuel efficiency increases of 12–16% have been achieved. The modernization also enabled them to carry 750 additional containers, MILLION MILLION improving overall efficiency per container transported. The fuel TONNES TONNES savings alone will pay for the efficiency measures after one year. Read our expert story Read more SDG 8, 9, 13 1 Fuel and CO2 savings are estimated based on global data on the number 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 of ships included, average sailing days and average fuel savings per ship. Using big data to reduce the risk of coastal collisions SDG 14 Digital Solutions has worked with the Norwegian The risk methodology includes calculations Coastal Administration (Kystverket), analysing based on 11 million AIS positions every day Automatic Identification System (AIS) data to determine collision and grounding risk levels. to identify Norwegian coastal areas where It can easily be adapted for detailed mapping measures should be taken to reduce risk of of any coastal area worldwide. The solution has collisions and oil spills. The collaboration led also been extended to include environmental to the development of a system called AISyRisk, consequence mapping, which will continue until which offers coastal administrations the chance the end of 2019. Read more. to improve emergency readiness based on big data capabilities. Using start-up culture to cut shipping’s CO2 bill by 10% SDG 7, 9, 13 Working with bulk owner and operator, Cargill, and start-up specialist, Rainmaking, DNV GL launched a global challenge to find and scale-up new technologies capable of reducing a ship’s gross CO2 emissions by Rewarding consumers 10%. The ‘CO2 Challenge’ offers start-ups, businesses and entrepreneurs the chance to share their new for greener driving technologies, ideas and ways of working to meet the challenge of decarbonization and eventually see their product make it onto a vessel or, potentially, into wider commercial production. DNV GL is offering its technical expertise throughout the project, helping to conduct Together with partners, we launched two digital ecosystem pilots in thorough assessments of the technologies proposed China in 2018. The ecosystem leverages the use of new technologies and modelling potential efficiency gains. Read more. such as IoT, blockchain, smart contracts and tokens, combined with our expertise in verification, to help enterprises and communities empower and reward more sustainable consumer behaviours. One of them is a carbon credit application installed on a leading brand of electric vehicles in China. The application tracks the driver’s performance and usage, rewarding the user with carbon credits for clean driving, verified by DNV GL. The carbon credits can later be exchanged or used to buy products from other companies in the ecosystem at a discount. SDG 11,12,13 Building a foundation for batteries and fuel cells SDG 7, 9, 13 DNV GL has launched a joint industry project The lessons learned from the project can be seen with more than a dozen partners to advance the in the 250 all-electric or hybrid vessels either in understanding and use of lithiumion batteries operation or under construction. From a baseline in the shipping industry. 2018 also marked the of zero electric or hybrid vessels five years ago, close of the FellowSHIP project with partners the speed of uptake of these technologies is Eidesvik Offshore and Wärtsilä Norway, which impressive. We continue to support fuel cell develexplored the potential of battery, hybrid and opment by participating in the e4ships project. fuel cell technology in the maritime industry This aims to improve energy supply onboard for over 15 years. large vessels by using Proton-exchange membrane (PEM) and high-temperature fuel cells. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 49 Proving the safety of hydrogen as an alternative to natural gas in the UK Hydrogen can play a tangible role in a decarbonized energy mix in the coming decades. Hydrogen, when used as a fuel, produces no CO2, so a switch from natural gas to hydrogen could significantly reduce CO2 emissions, depending on how the hydrogen is produced. DNV GL is one of five primary partners in a UK initiative aiming to confirm that a 100% hydrogen gas grid would carry comparable safety risk to current natural gas networks. Since 2018, our Spadeadam testing and research centre has been involved in critical studies Assessing the microSDG 14 whose findings will be used in the quantitative risk analysis. plastics threat in the sea We are also a strategic partner in the H21 project that has already shown the feasibility of decarbonizing natural gas supply to the The world’s oceans are receiving roughly 13 million UK city of Leeds by using 100% hydrogen in existing infrastructure. tonnes of plastic annually and it is claimed that by 2050 H21’s director has said that a positive result on hydrogen safety the amount of plastic in the world’s oceans will exceed the risk will leave political will as the decisive factor in a large-scale amount of fish. DNV GL is leading an evidence-based switchover from natural gas to hydrogen in the UK. Read more. approach to address policymakers’ concerns about the possible biological effects of microplastics in marine and freshwater environments globally. The project has SDG 7, 9, 13 so far resulted in a report on microplastics in sediments on the Norwegian coastal shelf, developed in collaboration with the Norwegian Geotechnical Institute. Collaborating with oil and gas operators and Norway’s national authorities, our Environmental Monitoring Group has used scheduled survey-vessel time to acquire samples from continental shelf sediments. The samples show high concentrations of microparticles and the team will now accurately identify particles that are microplastic and investigate the effects of microplastics in seafloor worms. Read more. Offshore wind power SDG 9, 13 With more and more offshore wind farms being developed, the distance to suitable sites is becoming further offshore. China, for example, has exploited nearly all wind farm sites within 10 km of the coastline and is now looking at sites up to 90 km offshore. DNV GL is helping customers open up these new sites with services that support bringing the electricity generated on-shore. With projects in China, India and Europe we are supporting over 1.7 GW of new generation capacity. Telling the authentic story of wine SDG 9, 12 Our digital assurance solution, My Story™ was first launched in 2018 competitors or peers. It bridges the trust gap with three Italian wine companies. Consumers can scan a QR code between companies’ efforts and consumers’ on the wine label access the full history of the journey from grape concerns. It gives companies investing in sustainable to bottle, with the information checked and verified by DNV GL. products, processes and value chains a unique My Story™ displays verified facts on a blockchain platform. opportunity to share their authentic product story The system is a scalable and affordable enterprise solution that with consumers, including information on quality, allows companies to differentiate themselves from less serious social, environmental or ethical aspects. 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Energy efficiency saves customer 360,000 tonnes CO2 annually This year, we concluded a project with leading chemicals Our team of energy management experts assessed how company, Borealis, to reduce CO2 emissions by 360,000 tonnes Borealis’ sites were functioning in relation to its energy annually. Over the course of four years we helped Borealis performance and pinpointed its strengths, weaknesses and implement an ISO 50001 compliant energy management focus points, and reviewed the existing company procedures system leading to reductions in costs, energy use and emisand updated them where necessary. Read more. sions, benefitting both the company and the environment. SDG 8, 9, 13 Monitoring gas turbine emissions in Oman SDG 3, 11 In 2018, we started providing Petroleum Our digital solution is a predictive emissionsDevelopment Oman and Occidental Oman monitoring system, built for the specific with online monitoring of gas turbine emissions. gas turbine type and combustion system, Using a cost-effective solution that meets and offers a completely new generation of international standards, the customers can advanced predictive analytics and reporting. continuously monitor and report air emissions Being able to monitor and report on emisfrom 44 gas turbine emissions sources to sions accurately is the first step in reducing comply with Omani government regulations. emissions in the future. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 51 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY Our vision of having global impact for a safe and sustainable future sets the direction of our business and our conduct. We continue to report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards. This section includes; how we support our customers through the products and services we provide, how we aim to continuously improve on the safety of our employees and opportunities for career development, how we protect the environment and maintain our standards of ethics and compliance in our own operations and with our business partners. Contents VALUE TO CUSTOMERS VALUE TO EMPLOYEES VALUE TO SOCIETY 54 Sustainable innovations 60 Employee health and safety 74 Ethics and compliance 56 Customer satisfaction 66 People 78 Economic contribution 58 Data privacy and security 80 Environment and climate 83 Sustainable procurement ANNUAL REPORT 2018 53 VALUE TO CUSTOMERS SUSTAINABLE INNOVATIONS WORKING TOGETHER FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE Why it matters Sustainability is at the heart of our purpose and vision. Reducing For example, our Maritime ECO solutions service has helped material impacts across DNV GL operations is just one part of our customers reduce CO2 emissions by 18.8 million tonnes, our approach to operating sustainably. We can have a far greater 290 times more than the 65,500 tonnes of CO2 that our entire positive impact by supporting our customers to meet their company produced in 2018 (see case study on pages 48). sustainability goals through our products and services. The cases presented on pages 48–51 are some of the ways we In each of our business areas, we offer services and competence contribute to reaching the Sustainable Development Goals. that help customers become more efficient, improve performance and operate safely and sustainably. 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Maritime Oil & Gas Improving fuel efficiency and reducing emissions DNV GL helps to monitor gas turbine emissions with our ECO solutions (SDG 8, 9, 13) in Oman (SDG 3, 11) Our CO2 Challenge to cut shipping’s CO2 emissions Proving the safety of hydrogen as an alternative by 10% (SDG 7, 9, 13) to natural gas in the UK (SDG 7, 9, 13) Research into battery, hybrid and fuel cell power Assessing the microplastics threat in the sea in the shipping industry (SDG 7, 9, 13) (SDG 14) Energy Business Assurance Supporting offshore wind power (SDG 9, 13) Rewarding consumers for greener driving Customer energy efficiency savings of 360,000 tonnes (SDG 11, 12, 13) annually (SDG 8, 9, 13) Telling the authentic story of wine (SDG 9, 12) Digital Solutions Using big data to reduce the risk of coastal collisions (SDG 14) For detailed case studies, see our sustainable innovations examples on pages 48–51. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 55 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION UNRIVALLED TECHNICAL EXPERTISE Why it matters Across all of our work, we focus on putting our customers at the Our business model is based on trust at all levels and in centre of our business and delivering services that truly meet all business environments. A key ingredient in building their needs – helping them solve problems and make the most customer trust is our commitment to never compromise of their opportunities. This dedication to customers is clearly on quality or integrity. expressed across our five values. We believe that a customer-centred approach – one that delivers excellent customer experiences and creates close, value-adding relationships – leads to competitive advantage. OUR VALUES This approach is at the heart of our 2020 strategy and We build trust and confidence each of our business areas is tasked with maintaining We never compromise on quality or integrity the highest levels of customer satisfaction. We are committed to teamwork and innovation We care for our customers and each other We embrace change and deliver results 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Progress in 2018 Brand survey shows high levels of trust The brand survey also revealed areas where we can improve. This includes improving the score on ‘being easy to work with’ and Maintaining the trust of our customers has enabled DNV GL to grow ‘increasing awareness of the breadth of services DNV GL has to offer‘. over its 155-year history. Continuing this is the key to sustaining our success in the future. To understand current levels of trust in DNV GL Customer satisfaction compared to our competitors, we carried out a global brand survey in March 2018. The survey gained 4,500 responses from customers and Each of our business areas measures customer satisfaction potential customers in all sectors and markets where DNV GL is active. separately using measures that are suited to their services and market segment. The survey results are very positive. Trust in DNV GL is high, and above MARITIME: conducts an annual customer satisfaction survey. comparable firms in our benchmark survey. 75% of respondents gave us a score of six or seven on a seven-point scale. Less than 2% stated In 2018, the online survey received almost 1,500 responses from low trust (scores of one and two). In addition, 68% of respondents 830 customers. Overall, customer satisfaction is high with a rating would speak highly of DNV GL to others, with only 7% stating they of 5.45 out of seven. Customers rated DNV GL very highly on would be critical. We plan to re-run the brand survey every 2–4 years. commercial interaction and, in particular, service delivery. OIL & GAS: measures individual customer satisfaction by conductThe results also showed that ‘technical expertise’ is the most imporing a survey with all customers when projects have been completed. tant criteria when selecting a service provider like DNV GL and Customers are asked to provide a rating from one to ten and ‘acting with integrity’ is in the top five. Other important criteria in 2018 the average score was 9.1. within the top 20 that clearly link to DNV GL’s purpose and vision ENERGY: improved its customer relationship strength indicator are ‘reduces business risk and uncertainty’, ‘improves safety in my (CRSI) score from 68% to 69% in 2018. This was short of our organization’ and ‘builds trust with my organization’s stakeholders’. 2018 target of 71%. Our target for 2020 is a CRSI score of 80%, reflecting our high ambitions for customer centricity. TOP FIVE CRITERIA WHEN SELECTING AN ASSURANCE PROVIDER BUSINESS ASSURANCE: conducts an annual online customer satisfaction survey and received more than 11,000 unique answers 1 Provides deep technical expertise in 2018. This provided a customer satisfaction index score 2 Has a wide global network of offices of 5.09 out of 6, well above the threshold of full satisfaction. 3 Is easy to work with DIGITAL SOLUTIONS: improved its customer satisfaction score 4 Acts as a partner rather than a service provider from 74% to 75% in 2018. More than 1,000 customers responded to 5 Acts with integrity a satisfaction survey, representing nearly 40% of the customer base. Approach A customer-centred approach to business is anchored in our The following actions are central to our approach: 2020 business strategy. For DNV GL this approach means: 1. Being easy to do business with is a first, and critical, step that Putting our customers at the centre of our business to deliver we must get right without compromising on quality or integrity services that truly meet their needs, help them solve problems, 2. Anticipating our customer’s needs – thinking around the corner and make the most of their opportunities. for them – to reveal new sources of efficiency and revenue Getting close to our customers, spending time with them, 3. Creating value for the customer and DNV GL through our meeting them in their environment, and building relationexpertise and services ships and business based on trust. 4. Using our digital transformation to improve the customer experience. Our aim is to continually serve our customers in a proactive and responsive way, including using digital solutions to improve The success of our customer-centred approach is measured their experiences and our cost competitiveness. We continue to by the value we create for the customer through projects, focus on developing a more customer-centered working culture, customer satisfaction and market share within our business areas. one in which our commitment to customers drives a curiosity and desire to anticipate their needs. Performance Trust Advocacy Brand survey results 2018 75% 68% ANNUAL REPORT 2018 57 DATA PRIVACY AND SECURITY CYBER SECURITY IN THE DIGITAL AGE Why it matters The internet age has been characterized by exponential growth For DNV GL, data security is a natural extension of our purpose in digital data. Alongside the benefits of digital technology, we for the digital age – to protect life, property and the environment. have also witnessed a significant rise in cyber-security threats and data breaches around the world. It is clear that the need to ‘protect We have invested significantly in our data protection managecustomers’, corporate and individuals’ digital data is more imporment system, which aims to protect our employees’, customers’, tant than ever. As a result, our clear focus is on enhancing our own suppliers’ and business partners’ right to privacy in line with cyber security while also helping our customers to do the same. the new European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Progress in 2018 During the year, we aligned our existing data protection of GDPR. We have also updated our privacy statement on programme to the requirements of the General Data Protection the DNV GL website and our industry data platform, Veracity. Regulation (GDPR) to comply with new European legislation introduced in May 2018. Existing policies, internal structures During 2018, we reviewed and updated our existing e-learning and training materials have been updated to reflect the new and express training on personal data protection in line with requirements, including data subject rights to access, rectifiGDPR. The training is available to all employees and a requirecation, erasure and portability of data, and breach notification ment for those that handle data as part of their daily work, such mechanisms. Data processing activities have been placed in a as employees working in human resources and IT. We achieved common register, providing a proper overview on all processes a 95% completion rate by the end of the year. in DNV GL that cover personal data management. During 2018, the Group Compliance team worked closely with Our customer-facing IT platforms are developed with the ‘privacy the Global Data Protection Officer on implementation measures by design’ principle in mind, in accordance with the requirements and raising general awareness of the new regulation. Looking ahead Recognizing the ever-changing landscape related to digital assets, We will continue to monitor the legal interpretation of GPDR we will continue to provide training and communicate widely and local practices related to data protection and take approon privacy and data ethics. Ensuring a high level of awareness priate measures to adjust to any changes. All business areas, around the business is essential to success and a key area Group functions and Global Shared Services have nominated of focus will be on local implementation of our processes. individuals to work together closely on any additional measures required to achieve complete compliance with GDPR. Approach Data protection DNV GL has a nominated Global Data Protection Officer respon‘assume breach’. This principle assumes that competent and sible for informing, advising and monitoring compliance with resourceful attackers will be able to break into our systems and personal data protection laws together with Group Compliance. we therefore direct resources into our ability to detect and mitigate such security breaches. Comprehensive instructions are in place to ensure we meet our standards for protecting the personal data of employees and During a typical month DNV GL’s security system will stop customers and fulfil GDPR requirements. An important enabler 200,000–300,000 phishing attacks and 40,000–50,000 for data protection is training all employees, and particularly instances of payload / malware. We use machine learning to those that deal with personal data as part of their daily work. develop smarter algorithms to identify which of these pose the most significant threats in order to detect and prevent Customer data is handled in accordance with the confidentiality cyber attacks. obligations outlined in the terms and conditions of our customer contracts. We are also a Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) certified To ensure that DNV GL adheres to the highest level of data company meaning that customer and employee data can be protection, our information security management systems for transferred within DNV GL Group to countries outside the GSS IT, Energy, Oil & Gas and Digital Solutions are ISO 27001 European Union and European Economic Area. certified, and Maritime is pursuing certification. We have a detailed information classification system to segment and IT and data security secure more sensitive information. Our Global Shared Services IT function invests significant The GSS IT department operate a Computer Emergency resources in continuously monitoring and repairing IT-system Response Team that is activated during more complex and vulnerabilities. We work on the cyber-security principle of advanced cyber attack situations. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 59 VALUE TO EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY A HEALTHY AND RESILIENT WORKFORCE Why it matters The greatest asset we have is our people and the greatest asset Our vision is zero harm to anyone working for, or on behalf, they have is their health and wellbeing. At DNV GL, we care for of DNV GL. To achieve this goal, we continually strengthen our each other and we safeguard our people. We strive to be the safest attitudes, beliefs and behaviour, learn from experience and place to work and safety is deeply embedded in our purpose, improve our ways of working accordingly. Our commitment vision and values. To us, safeguarding our people is not only extends to everyone linked to our business. Our subcontractors about preventing accidents and injuries, it is also about mainand suppliers perform better in a safe working environment taining a healthy and resilient workforce, fit for the work it does. and customers buying our services from us expect exceptional safety performance. 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Progress in 2018 Zero harm Health and wellbeing Our headline health and safety performance in 2018 continued In 2018, there were no work-related fatalities involving DNV GL the positive trend seen over the last two years as we strive employees. Sadly, two employees were taken ill in the field and towards our ambition of zero harm. subsequently died. While work-related factors were not a cause, we are continuously looking for ways to improve the health of our employees and to encourage a healthy lifestyle. In 2018, our: To support our fit-for-work requirements for high-risk activities, Injury rate fell to 0.9 (2017: 1.01) we developed a global medical health-check guideline for Occupational disease rate fell to 0.6 (2017: 1.0) employees working in the field. It details the minimum requireLost day rate from injuries and occupational ments that medical check-ups need to cover. The guideline diseases fell to 23.5 (2017: 36.2) helps to ensure our employees are fit for the work they do. Absence rate was stable at 2.4% (2017: 2.4%). It will be rolled out during 2019. In 2018, we continued to promote the global health and wellbeing To measure the maturity of our approach, we re-ran our global framework developed in 2017. The framework aims to strengthen health and safety culture survey for all employees in 2018. The the resilience of our workforce by enhancing employees’ physical, results showed our safety culture has improved in areas such as mental and social wellbeing and shifting the focus from reactive compliance and competence. We still have red flags, however, stress management to a more proactive and preventative when it comes to employee resilience and how we manage approach. This work will also continue into 2019. conflicting goals, such as periods of high workload clashing with employees’ work-life balance. We developed action Incident reporting and learning from incidents plans in 2018 to address these challenges. Implementation will continue into 2019. We took a more proactive approach to incident reporting in 2018 and reporting to senior and operational management has To support our overall approach, we revised and re-launched focused on near misses. In the same period, the injury rate has our mandatory health, safety and environment (HSE) training fallen, suggesting the increased focus on near misses reflects course late in the year and this will run throughout 2019 for greater awareness around the business. all DNV GL employees and all other workers outside DNV GL that do not have equivalent training in their companies. Looking ahead HSE governance A new initiative is our global resilience index to measure employee resilience through pulse surveys (see page 67) throughIn 2019, we will review and improve the structure of our global out DNV GL. For DNV GL, resilience consists of two dimensions: HSE organization to reflect new ways of working arising from wellbeing and motivation. Resilience enables our employees our digital transition (see page 67). The review will also ensure to be able to confront work challenges, be more prepared how we work is aligned with the new Group strategy that will and recover from setbacks. be developed during 2019 for 2020 and beyond. Incident reporting and learning from incidents Health and wellbeing We will continue our increased focus on near-miss and hazard We will continue our health and wellbeing programme in 2019. reporting in 2019. In 2019, we plan to implement machine learnThis includes: ing to capture, classify and route HSE incidents and hazards. Rolling out the global medical health check guideline The new process should make it easier for employees to report developed in 2018 incidents by reducing reporting time. By capturing more Continuing with action plans for challenges identified incidents, we aim to learn more about risks and enable in our health and safety culture survey. prevention. 1 Data from previous years has been restated due to changes in our reporting approach. See p. xy for more details. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 61 Approach Health and safety management system To ensure an appropriate level of investigation, we have simplified how we assess the severity of incidents and hazards. Our HSE policy provides the basis for our approach to health and safety. Our global occupational health and safety management We strive to ensure that our incident reporting system complies system is certified according to the OHSAS 18001 standard with all laws and regulations in countries where we operate. and is part of our Group management system. Where legislation is weak or does not exist, we adhere to our company requirements, which comply with Norwegian regulaGovernance tions and are aligned with the ILO code of practice on recording Our health and safety organization is structured on two lines of and notification of occupational accidents and diseases. responsibility: by geography and by business area. The Group Read more on the ILO Code of Practice here. CEO and Executive Committee are responsible for all HSE matters, ensuring they receive attention at the highest level. Learning from incidents Health and safety performance is reported to the Executive A significant objective of incident and hazard reporting is to Committee every two months and the CEO reports to the Board share experiences across the business and learn from them. of Directors at least every two months. Quarterly reports are Learning is shared through quarterly presentations on incidents made available to all employees on the intranet. with medium or high loss potential. We also maintain an openaccess incident and hazard database. Incident reporting We manage and report incidents and hazards using Synergi Involving employees Life, a commercial HSE software platform developed in-house by We share information and consult with elected representatives DNV GL. The Synergi Life mobile app enables immediate reporting of employee works councils and unions in accordance with our at any time or place. Employees can also anonymously report collective agreements and local legislation. incidents and hazards. All reported cases with the potential for high loss are investigated and corrective actions implemented. Performance in 2018 Our health and safety performance is considered sound and stable. We have achieved improvements in our injury rate, 0.9 Injury rate from to lost occupational disease rate, lost day rate and a stable sickness day injuries per million absentee rate. The results are comparable with those of our employee working hours peers, however, we are continuously attempting to improve. Injury rate In 2018, we achieved an injury rate of 0.9 (2017: 1.0) continuing the downward trend of the last three years. In general, our 2.4% Absentee rate due to sickness lost time injuries arise from driving and slips, trips and falls. Field work continues to be a focus area and, in some cases, lack of awareness and stress are contributing factors. From January 2018, lost time injury (LTI) cases involving other workers (non-DNV GL employees) have been reported and investigated but are not be included in the injury rate. The injury rate figures for 2017 have been updated to reflect this change. 0.16 Incidents and hazards reported Unfortunately, we had one serious lost time accident in 2018 per employee when an employee was involved in a serious road traffic accident while travelling in a taxi in China. The employee is still receiving medical treatment. 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 FIGURE 01 INJURY RATE BY REGION Injury rate, total workforce 2018 Injury rate, total workforce 2017 0.0 Nordics 0.4 2.3 Central Europe 1.4 West, South and 1.4 East Europe 1.9 1.6 Great Britain 0.0 0.3 North America 0.3 0.0 South America 0.0 0.4 North Asia 1.5 0.0 South Asia 1.4 India, Middle East, 1.4 and Africa 1.3 0.9 DNV GL total 1.0 Number of cases per 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 million worked hours Occupational disease rate In 2018, we achieved an occupational disease rate of 0.6 (2017: 1.0). feel comfortable about discussing stress in the workplace. Only occupational disease cases involving employees are Other causes of lost days included driving/travelling, field included in the occupational disease rate. We use the same work and indoor conditions. principle as for the LTI rate. The majority of lost days from occupational diseases relate to stress and high workload. None of the occupational cases reported in 2018 had a high loss As a result, we are taking a more proactive approach to managing potential for the people involved. No workers are involved in stress, including raising employee awareness and helping them occupational activities with a high incidence of specific diseases. FIGURE 02 OCCUPATIONAL DISEASE RATE BY REGION Occupational disease, total workforce 2018 Occupational disease, total workforce 2017 1.1 Nordics 1.0 0.0 Central Europe 0.7 West, South and 0.0 East Europe 0.7 1.1 Great Britain 2.5 0.3 North America 0.3 4.3 South America 2.0 0.4 North Asia 0.4 2.4 South Asia 4.2 India, Middle East, 0.0 and Africa 0.0 0.6 DNV GL total 0.1 Number of cases per 0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 million worked hours ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63 Lost day rate Incident and hazard reporting In 2018, we achieved a lost day rate of 23.5 (2017: 36.2). In total, During the year, 1,995 incidents and hazards related to occuthere were 524 lost days due to injuries and occupational diseases, pational health, safety and the environment were reported. down 37.6% from 840 in 2017. The decrease is mainly related to This represents 0.16 reports per employee (2017: 0.18). 4.4% fewer severe stress and workload cases and fewer severe injuries. of reported incidents and hazards had high loss potential for the people involved. Absentee rate Our absentee rate continues at a low level of 2.4% (2017: 2.4%). Our reporting system does not currently capture absence by region. FIGURE 03 LOST DAY RATE BY REGION Lost day rate, total workforce 2018 Lost day rate, total workforce 2017 19.2 Nordics 35.6 29.3 Central Europe 36.6 West, South and 7.7 East Europe 70.5 40.9 Great Britain 67.2 3.2 North America 1.8 19.3 South America 15.8 89.0 North Asia 14.9 7.2 South Asia 35.4 India, Middle East, 6.1 and Africa 21.0 23.5 DNV GL total 36.2 Number of 0 20 40 60 80 100 days absent DEFINITIONS Absentee rate (%): Total hours of absence Lost day rate: Number of days absence Occupational diseases with no lost days: due to sickness/worked hours x 100. due to injuries with lost days and occupational A harmful effect on a person caused by diseases with lost days per million worked hours. prolonged or repeated exposure(s) with Hazard: Unsafe act or unsafe condition no lost days (back to work the next day). with the potential to cause an incident. Near-misses: An event or exposure(s) which did not result in injury, ill health or Work-related cases: An incident or hazard Injury rate: Number of injuries with environmental impact, but where, given a slight that occurs or arises during the performance lost days per million worked hours. shift in time or position easily could have. of duty on behalf of DNV GL. Duty includes work or travel to and from any location on Injuries with no lost days: Number of Occupational disease rate: Number of behalf of DNV GL: injuries resulting in personal injury but occupational diseases with lost days per no lost time (back to work the next day). million worked hours. • as a condition of employment • for work activities Injuries with lost days: Any work-related Occupational diseases with lost days: • performing duties in the interests of DNV GL injury which prevents an injured employee A harmful effect on a person caused by • attending a DNV GL organized social event. or other workers from doing any work on prolonged or repeated exposure(s) with any day (or shift) after the day (or shift) lost days (not back to work the next day). For environmental incidents, this applies to on which the injury occurred, including activities or locations DNV GL is responsible for. weekends and holidays. 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 TABLE 01 HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE 2018 2017 2016 Work-related fatal accidents 0 0 0 Lost day injuries, employees 19 23 32 Lost day injuries, other workers 4 4 2 Injuries with no lost days 126 1511 1631 Occupational diseases with lost days, employees 14 242 25 Occupational diseases with lost days, other workers 1 0 0 Occupational diseases with no lost days 50 971 106 Near misses 380 4111 4881 Hazards 1 382 1 621 2 0181 Injury rate 0.9 1.0 1.3 Occupational diseases rate 0.6 1.02 1.0 Lost day rate 23.5 36.22 38.4 Absence rate (%) 2.4 2.4 2.5 Corrections to previous reporting Footnotes To minimize restrictions and maximize the number 1) We have removed two categories not 2) Occupational diseases with lost time reported of recorded incidents in the Synergi Life system, related to HSE (production and property loss) for 2017 has been corrected from 22 to 24 due to one we do not set any cut-off date for registering inciin Synergi Life. This resulted in changes of the new case recorded after the deadline for external dents and hazards in the reporting tool. Our annual case types for some cases and is reflected reporting and one case not correctly reported in 2017. external reporting may consequently be corrected in the updated numbers in the health and Both cases have been investigated and corrective with registrations made after the reporting deadlines, safety performance statistics. In addition, actions have been implemented. In addition, for and such corrections are commented. Injuries and we completed a major data revision and one case recorded in 2017 further sick hours where diseases with high loss potential for people involved clean-up in 2018. accumulated in 2018. The occupational disease rate are investigated independently of the recording and the lost day rate for 2017 have been corrected date in Synergi Life. accordingly from 0.9 to 1.0 and from 30.3 to 36.2. Case study Awarded the SCL level three certificate Last year, TenneT, a key customer in the Energy business area, Following an independent audit, we were awarded the SCL required its top 500 suppliers to become certified to level three level three certificate and the certification body complemented of the Safety Culture Ladder (SCL). Based on this request, a us on the level of employee and management involvement in project team in DNV GL Netherlands worked to deliver this occupational health and safety. This is a great result for the certification in our NEMEA and Power TIC units. Energy business area and supports our goal to be the safest place to work. Find out more at www.veiligheidsladder.org/en/ ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 PEOPLE DIVERSITY MATTERS Why it matters Trust and expertise are at the core of our relationship with We want to be a company that attracts, retains and develops customers and stakeholders. Our employees interact with our engaged people who are committed to our purpose, vision customers every day, delivering the services they require and and values. For employees, we want to be ‘the best place to building trust-based relationships. Our strong company culture develop your competence.’ A high-quality recruitment process, has ensured we continue to deliver for our customers through an attractive employee-value proposition and varied developchallenging market conditions and downsizing. To make sure ment and career opportunities are crucial to achieving this. we maintain and enhance the expertise we offer, we invest in We value diversity and want to employ the best people developing the competence of our people. regardless of background. We believe a diverse workforce provides a better basis for delivering excellent services. 66 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Progress in 2018 Training and development Investing in our digital transformation an effective way to enhance communication between employees Despite challenging market conditions, we continue to invest in and management. The pulse survey methodology has been our digital transformation, a position that we believe will underpin approved for global implementation in 2019. DNV GL’s future strength. We launched our new Digital Solutions business area on 1 January 2018. More than half of our investTo engage employees in our strategy and provide feedback ment in research and innovation is in our digital transformation, to leadership, a Strategy Champions initiative is in operation. building digital competence, services and infrastructure to Almost 100 strategy champions from all business areas and support our new industry data platform, Veracity. more than 20 countries are selected and execute strategyrelated ‘missions’ in their local offices. The goal is to stimulate 633 senior managers completed our Leading Digital Transfordiscussions about how strategic goals are understood and mation training programme during the year. The programme is acted on in a local context. designed to enhance our capability with both digital technologies and methods to accelerate our transformation into a truly digital Downsizing organization. Further details are provided in the case study on page 69. The challenging market conditions of recent years have forced DNV GL to reduce costs and rightsize the organization in line A new global human resources (HR) system was launched in late with lower activity levels in several markets. At 12,101, our 2017, supporting people analytics capabilities and improved employee headcount dropped by 600 during 2018 and we efficiency. In 2018, we focused on fully implementing the system now have 3,600 fewer colleagues than at year-end 2014. as well as developing and launching new functionality, including performance management, regular check-in dialogues, During these difficult times, we emphasize that headcount onboarding and succession. reductions must to be handled in line with our values, as well as local legislation. Employee engagement Diversity In 2018, our business areas have piloted pulse surveys to assess engagement and other aspects among employees. Pulse surveys Across our organization, 31.8% of employees are female. involve more frequent, less comprehensive assessments with At the most senior management level, four of nine Executive quicker, more targeted follow-up actions. It is a more agile Committee members and two of five operational CEOs are approach than previous annual engagement surveys and provides women. In 2018, 38% of new hires were women. Looking ahead Digital transformation Employee engagement Our focus on digital transformation will continue in 2019. In 2019, we will start to use the pulse methodology across the Building on the success of this year’s Leading Digital Transwhole organization to measure various aspects of employee formation programme, we will extend it in 2019, as follows: engagement and facilitate communication between managers and their unit. More frequent and less comprehensive surveys Provide Leading Digital Transformation ‘lite’ for another will provide more timely and actionable feedback for leaders 500+ managers and selected employees to make improvements with more impact. This is aligned with Develop ‘Mini Challenges’ related to digital transformachanges we are making to our performance management tion, which will be made available to all employees. process to enhance feedback and communication between line managers and individual employees. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 67 Approach As a professional services provider, we rely on the knowledge and To support our diversity efforts, we run mentoring programmes, skills of our people. We strive to foster a company culture with including the reverse mentoring of senior leaders by ‘next people who are committed to our purpose, vision and values. generation’ colleagues. We also hold an annual global summit for up-and-coming talent. Strategy and management system Our Group strategy and management system, including our Human rights people policy, governs how we attract and develop employees DNV GL is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. and build a strong company culture. This system also underpins We are committed to adhering to its principles in the areas of our value-based leadership approach. human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption in our business strategy, day-to-day operations, Our people processes are designed to create a common culture organizational culture and sphere of influence. within a flexible work environment that provides career and competence development opportunities for all. Our Code of Conduct establishes our commitment to nonDNV GL delivers services globally that require teamwork, high discrimination, equal opportunity, the right to join labour competence levels and a flexible workforce. Teamwork is reflected unions and fair employment. All employees are introduced in the DNV GL value “We are committed to teamwork and innoto the company’s policies during the onboarding process vation” and it has resulted in a strong ‘We’-thinking approach and human and labour rights are part of this. embedded in our organization. DNV GL’s Statement on Modern Slavery and Human TraffickGovernance ing has been issued further to section 54 (1) of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act 2015 and constitutes the DNV GL UK’s The Group President and CEO approves our people, leadership, slavery and human trafficking statement for the financial and roles & responsibilities policies. The Group HR function year ending 31 December 2018. The statement is available establishes these policies and sets the direction for HR manageon the company website. ment. It works closely with HR teams in the business areas and Global Shared Services to ensure an aligned approach company Freedom of association and collective agreements wide. People management is a line responsibility and line manEmployees’ right to freedom of association and collective agers are supported by HR managers and a range of HR tools. bargaining is documented in DNV GL’s management system and our commitment to the UN Global Compact. Around We have broad geographic employee representation on 45% of our employees are covered by collective agreements. DNV GL’s Board of Directors. Our management works constructively with employee organizations through the Global Employee Forum, regional and local works councils and unions. Employee training and development Our approach to employee development and competence Diversity and equal opportunity is detailed in internal governing documents. We follow the We seek diversity in terms of age, gender, nationality, experience 70:20:10 learning model; with 70% gained from on-the-job and mindset and strive for diversity at all levels. Diversity is a experience, 20% through interaction with others, and 10% source of strength for DNV GL. It provides the widest access to from e-learning and classroom training. Business area training global talent and is the best basis for delivering excellence to ensures the right competencies are in place to deliver our our customers. Managed well, diverse teams can also identify different services. and capture more opportunities and manage more risks than homogenous teams. In addition to a range of mandatory training, cross-DNV GL programmes develop leadership and technical stewardship. Mentoring is a key part of how we work and we enable learning from colleagues around the globe through various mentoring programmes. 111 nationalities are represented among our employees, and 22 countries have Our global career model facilitates employees’ competence 100 or more employees development. Competence development planning includes an individual development plan, which is a key part of our performance management process. All employees are assessed annually on results and behaviour 86% through a structured performance management process. of employees have a higher The assessment, development and selection of new managers education at PhD, Master or Bachelor degree levels are based on DNV GL’s expectations for leaders: Respect and care, foresight, customer centricity, and results orientation. 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Talent acquisition Grades 1–9: all eligible employees receive a percentage of Remuneration their base salary in bonus, based on DNV GL Group results. As a knowledge-based company whose main resource is our Grades 10–15: the annual individual profit share is deteremployees, we depend on cooperation, teamwork and knowmined based on grade and a target percentage, individual ledge sharing. The DNV GL remuneration systems are set up assessment rating, annual base salary and DNV GL Group to support this. Our annual salary review and remuneration and business area EBITA at reference rates versus targets. process is the same for all employees, including management, and is outlined in the DNV GL management system. In addition to these global schemes, sales schemes are available Our collective agreements with employee groups do not in some business areas. No employee can be a member of more include voting on remuneration policies. than one scheme. External remuneration consultants are used to benchmark remuCareer endings neration in our markets. For around the 20 largest countries in Transition assistance programmes are implemented locally which we operate, this happens through country-specific salary to meet local legislation and requirements. In the case of large and benefit databases covering thousands of people. There is downsizing projects, local assistance programmes are set up. no relationship between our management and the remuneration At all times, we seek to retain the employees in the organization, consultants. including the following ways: For the Executive Committee, the review procedure differs slightly. All available positions are advertised internally The Board’s Compensation Committee conducts a review and External recruitment restrictions are used to facilitate internal makes recommendations before the procedure is concluded. transfers The final decision on remuneration for the Group President All employees should have a development plan which focuses and CEO is taken by the Board of Directors using input from on DNV GL’s future capability needs and the employee’s own the Compensation Committee. career ambitions The DNV GL management system stipulates that mitigating Profit sharing actions are to be sought before staffing reductions are Profit-share schemes are the most appropriate variable pay considered or executed. to support our values. We have two major global profit-share schemes: Case study The digital elements of DNV GL’s strategy Relevant digital technologies and digital ways of working Training leaders on our The need for transformation and innovation, and the opportunities that come with it digital transformation Using digital technologies, work processes, skills, attitudes and behaviours with colleagues, teams and customers in everyday work. Like many other companies, we are facing the combined opportunity and challenge of global digitalization and its influence on A total of 633 senior managers from all business areas completed a rapidly changing business environment. We are responding the on-line programme in 2018 over an eight-week period. through our digital transformation strategy and have developed a The programme itself is an example of how digital ways of working Leading Digital Transformation training programme to enhance can enable change and accelerate transformation processes. our digital capability organization wide and to accelerate our It is also designed to link with ongoing work for each participant. transformation. The feedback on the course has been overwhelmingly positive Completed in collaboration with INSEAD business school, and the success of the programme has resulted in lighter version the programme aims to establish a common understanding, programmes being developed. These will be available for 500+ language and competence among all employees, including: further managers and all employees in 2019. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 69 Performance Workforce profile TABLE 02 EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER FIGURE 04 EMPLOYEES BY NATIONALITY Employment contract Female Male Total Permanent employees 32% 68% 11 889 NORWEGIAN Time-limited employees 49% 51% 212 Total 3 854 8 247 12 101 GERMAN INDIAN Permanent employees POLISH AMERICAN Full-time 29% 71% 11 073 DUTCH BRITISH CHINESE Part-time 61% 39% 816 Total 3 749 8 140 11 889 Norwegian 1,677 Subcontractor and temporary personnel German 1,341 Temporary staff 26% 74% 577 American 1,306 External business support 17% 83% 1 783 British 944 Chinese 844 Supplier 23% 77% 221 Dutch 739 Subcontractor 21% 79% 5 493 Polish 642 Total 1 664 6 410 8 074 Indian 614 Italian 377 South Korean 319 Spanish 308 TABLE 03 EMPLOYEES BY REGION Brazilian 251 Danish 212 Permanent Time-limited Total Region employees employees Singapore 199 Swedish 148 Nordics 2 541 15 2 556 French 142 West, South and East Europe 2 394 60 2 454 Japanese 131 North America 1 686 6 1 692 Greek 125 Central Europe 1 377 11 1 388 Malaysian 122 Canadian 116 North Asia 1 231 59 1 290 Australian 111 UK, Ireland 977 15 992 Egyptian 106 India, Middle East and Africa 770 26 796 South Asia 662 20 682 Nationalities > 100 shown in table Nationalities > 500 shown in pie chart South America 251 251 In total there were 111 nationalities among Grand Total 11 889 212 12 101 the permanent and time-limited employees at the end of 2018 (126 for all staff categories). Permanent employee: Temporary staff: E.g. summer Supplier: External service or On DNV GL payroll without temps and interns. product supplier. Registered in contracted time limitation. order to be granted certain access. External business support: Time-limited employee: Hired from other companies Subcontractor: Hired from other On DNV GL payroll with to do work for DNV GL under companies to do work on behalf contracted time limitation. their own management system. of DNV GL under DNV GL management system. 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Employee turnover TABLE 04 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER AND NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES BY AGE, GENDER AND REGION AGE GENDER Employee turnover <31 31–40 41–50 51–60 >60 Total Employee turnover Female Male Total Total number 181 530 359 247 112 1 429 Total number 516 913 1 429 Rate 19% 14% 9% 9% 13% 11.6% Rate 13% 11% 11.6% Opening count 2018 964 3 841 3 888 2 758 880 12 331 Opening count 2018 3 879 8 452 12 331 New employee hires New employee hires Total number 325 297 142 66 16 846 Total number 322 524 846 Hires 38% 35% 17% 8% 2% Hires 38% 62% GLOBAL SHARED SERVICES REGIONS West, India, South Middle Central and East Great North South North South East and Grand Nordics Europe Europe Britain America America Asia Asia Africa total Employee turnover Total number 219 187 248 132 323 39 63 116 102 1,429 Rate 8% 12% 10% 13% 18% 15% 5% 17% 13% 12% Opening count 2018 2 621 1 509 2 366 1 032 1 798 266 1 259 682 798 12 331 New employee hires Total number 110 33 250 86 169 16 50 69 63 846 Hires 13% 4% 30% 10% 20% 2% 6% 8% 7% Only permanent employees are included, as the other employment categories by contract are intended to join/leave. Turnover is based on number of employees leaving the company in the year divided by the opening count (1 January). ANNUAL REPORT 2018 71 Employee training and development TABLE 05 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING* PER EMPLOYEE BY GENDER AND EMPLOYEE GRADE HOURS / EMPLOYEE HOURS / EMPLOYEE HOURS / EMPLOYEE Employee Employee Employee * Basis of reporting grade Female Male grade Female Male grade Female Male employee training: Internal training only is 1 2 4 7 20 23 13 32 25 included. External training is not consistently tracked. 2 6 8 28 27 14 23 31 7.5 hours per day is used. Permanent and time3 8 2 9 17 23 15 21 30 limited employees only are included. Subcon4 9 7 10 27 21 tractors and temporary staff are excluded as their 5 13 15 11 13 15 inclusion is not relevant for internal competence 6 24 27 12 24 27 Total 20 22 development activities. TABLE 06 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING REGULAR PERFORMANCE AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS BY GENDER FOR PERMANENT EMPLOYEES Rated performance Unrated performance Female Permanent employee 99.8% 0.2% Time-limited employee 98.1% 1.9 % Male Permanent employee 99.7% 0.3% Time-limited employee 96.2% 3.8% Total, male and female 99.7% 0.3% TABLE 07 EMPLOYEE EDUCATION LEVEL IN OUR 10 BIGGEST COUNTRIES AND GLOBALLY PERMANENT EMPLOYEES Professional / Basic Technical College Bachelor Master Country education (0-3 years) (two-years) degree degree Doctorate Norway 117 36 58 361 1,290 189 United States 183 8 69 627 431 94 Germany 89 233 20 163 769 43 China 12 3 49 488 275 15 United Kingdom 33 17 22 227 277 112 The Netherlands 60 33 8 251 219 40 Poland 17 7 4 124 429 8 Singapore 43 5 3 169 111 24 Italy 81 2 21 102 74 17 South Korea 4 1 1 209 86 15 Global workforce 860 397 337 4 040 5 078 634 72 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Diversity and equal opportunity TABLE 08 GENDER AND AGE PROFILE OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYEE GRADE GENDER AGE GROUPS TOTAL Grade Female Male % female < 31 31–40 41–50 51–60 > 60 1 2 1 67% 1 1 1 3 2 9 14 39% 7 10 2 4 23 3 73 62 54% 33 48 31 20 3 135 4 258 103 71% 86 130 88 39 18 361 5 604 271 69% 274 286 178 111 26 875 6 730 620 54% 393 505 261 153 38 1 350 7 641 920 41% 295 708 347 164 47 1 561 8 532 1,401 28% 68 1 052 497 258 58 1 933 9 422 1,634 21% 11 719 825 420 81 2 056 10 319 1,465 18% 272 850 510 152 1 784 11 147 916 14% 49 430 459 125 1 063 12 81 510 14% 8 186 298 99 591 13 20 196 9% 55 118 43 216 14 12 92 12% 22 48 34 104 15 4 42 9% 1 25 20 46 Grand total 3 854 8 247 32% 1 168 3 788 3 773 2 628 744 12 101 10% 31% 31% 22% 6% TABLE 09 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BY AGE, GENDER AND NATIONALITY GENDER AGE Nationality Female Male < 50 > 50 Chinese 9.1% 9.1% Danish 9.1% 9.1% Greek 9.1% 9.1% German 9.1% 9.1% Norwegian 27.3% 36.4% 18.2% 45.5% Grand total 36.4% 63.6% 36.4% 63.6% ANNUAL REPORT 2018 73 VALUE TO SOCIETY ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE UPHOLDING OUR REPUTATION FOR INTEGRITY Why it matters DNV GL’s business model is based on trust at all levels and We add value to society by promoting fair business conduct in all business environments. Trust can only be achieved in our own operations and those we do business with. when we consistently maintain high standards of business and Our Code of Conduct provides a framework for what we personal conduct. In everything we do, we endeavour to reflect consider ethical, responsible and sustainable conduct. DNV GL’s values and strictly adhere to our Code of Conduct. The requirements and expectations, together with our values, constitute the basis of our corporate activities. It supports our vision and our business ambitions, and applies to everyone involved in DNV GL’s business. 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Progress in 2018 Compliance Reporting of misconduct No critical concerns were reported in 2018. No legal actions were A new annex to the instruction on reporting of misconduct was pending or completed during the reporting period regarding antipublished during the year. It clarifies the process for investigacompetitive behaviour or violations of antitrust and monopoly tions, including cross-departmental roles and responsibilities legislation. We have not identified any significant fines or for all investigations carried out in DNV GL. non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations relating to environmental, social or economic issues. Anti-corruption and high-risk countries Based on our procedure for countries with high fraud and corrupTraining tion risks, we developed a revised list of high-risk countries for We continue to focus on making sure our employees and business 2018–2020. Actions in high-risk countries include anti-corruption partners are fully trained on the issues and risks relating to ethical reviews by Internal Audit and specific training. conduct and compliance. Based on the findings of internal audit and compliance cases, as well as discussions in workshops, The interactive team-training on anti-corruption and fraud was we introduced further training sessions and relevant guidelines rolled-out in 2018 in all new high-risk countries for the 2018-2020 on a range of topics to support employees in their daily work. period. The training includes group sessions where employees describe typical corruption scenarios and collectively develop Export controls actions for avoiding these scenarios. By year-end, 92% of The process of establishing an extended global export control employees in the high-risk countries for 2018–2020 had been network continued in 2018. Roles and responsibilities were trained, and the remainder will be trained first half of 2019. re-arranged and extensive training took place. Risk workshops were conducted in Germany and the United States to identify We also developed a new awareness training on compliance areas where export control matters are relevant. We also risks for line managers to perform with their teams. The training performed an annual review on the level of implementation includes results from previous high-risk country training sessions. of our sanctions check tool. Suppliers Training in 2018 involved a new e-learning to help employees in A new supplier training was developed in 2018, explaining all business areas learn about the main aspects of export control DNV GL’s Code of Conduct expectations including antilaws and sanctions. The training is currently being rolled out, corruption, antitrust, personal data protection and export and will become mandatory for employees who come into control and sanctions, as well as grievance mechanisms. contact with matters relating to export control and sanctions. Rollout of the training is planned for 2019 (see case study below Individual business areas decide which employees need to for more information). The sustainable procurement section take the training based on the risk profile of their role. (page 83) provides more details on how we work with suppliers. Looking ahead Reducing corruption risk Export control laws and sanctions In 2019, we will introduce further measures to reduce corruption As part of developing our global export control network, we will risk in the high-risk countries we have identified for 2018–2020. continue to implement local export control laws and sanctions We will make the e-learning on supplier handling mandatory programmes in 2019. Work will continue in Germany and the US, in all high-risk countries and ensure ‘master presentations’ are and we will evaluate risks in Norway and the UK in order to identify conducted by line management. Internal Audit has developed appropriate action to mitigate risks. We will provide advice on a questionnaire on fraud and corruption that will be used in their installing proper structures and assigning responsibility locally. extraordinary audits in these countries. Country Chairs can also We will also monitor correct implementation of export controlinvite the Group Compliance Officer to conduct classroom training related processes. based on the needs in their respective countries. Business areas have to ensure that the sanctions check tool is Reporting misconduct connected with their customer relationship management tools A new mandatory e-learning on reporting of misconduct has to assess any blacklisting of business partners. We will continue been set for rollout to all employees in early 2019. The training to work closely with business areas to assess implementation contains a short video and a quiz section and is designed to of the process. create further awareness in our workforce. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 75 Approach Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct outlines our requirements and expecanti-corruption, antitrust, export control law and sanctions, and tations for ethical conduct. It makes clear what is expected personal data protection – are based on the ISO standard 19600 from DNV GL as a business and from every individual working for compliance management. This creates an integrated and for, or on behalf of, DNV GL. The Code of Conduct can be tailor-made approach. Lessons learned are systematically used downloaded here. to build competence and resilience. This enables our employees to understand the structure and requirements of the compliance The Code outlines high-level principles in two main areas: management system and meet customer requirements. The conduct of our business operations overall and the personal conduct of people involved in DNV GL’s business at all levels, Training both in ordinary work situations and when there are challenges to Training and awareness raising are at the core of our approach. our personal or professional integrity. Instructions for employees Awareness is key to reducing compliance risks and we continually are in place for all issues covered in the Code of Conduct. invest in new and updated training on a number of topics related to ethical conduct and integrity. Zero tolerance We do not tolerate any violation of applicable laws, including Governance those on anti-corruption, privacy and export control, nor of our Effective compliance is based on the global governance of Code of Conduct or internal instructions. Violations can result in our compliance programme and clear reporting lines. The disciplinary procedures, including termination of employment compliance programme is governed and managed at Group level. or contract as well as potential legal proceedings. It requires close cooperation between our Group compliance unit, all business areas and Global Shared Services, within a Compliance programme global compliance network. As a global company with activities in a range of sectors, we work to multiple sets of local regulations and practices, which results The CEO and Board Audit Committee receive quarterly updates in a diverse landscape of compliance risks. Our compliance on our compliance programme and the latest legal and political programme protects against these by regularly evaluating the developments through presentations and training. The Board risks reported in our risk management system and by developing of Directors and Control Committee receive annual updates. a common understanding of our integrity performance and comThe global compliance network works to communicate the pliance requirements through tailor-made awareness initiatives. compliance programme and raise awareness of compliance Our compliance programme is based on the Code of Conduct issues in the countries we operate in. and is owned by the Board of Directors. All focus areas – FIGURE 05 COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME ACCORDING TO ISO 19600 Top level commitment Regular risk assessment Lessons learned Code of Conduct and instructions REACT Training programme Actively manage and follow up on cases, Monitoring and control PREVENT case register Driven by Communication Group compliance Global compliance network DETECT Regular audit programme Procedures for reporting of misconduct Ombudsmen system 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Anti-corruption Supply chain We manage corruption and fraud risks through our Group We expect our suppliers and subcontractors to uphold the same risk management process and the Group compliance officer standard of business ethics as we do and we have a supplier is a member of DNV GL’s Group risk forum. All business areas Code of Conduct outlining our requirements. We continue to conduct an annual risk assessment using the DNV GL risk advise on and actively monitor the implementation of the instrucmanagement tool, which includes identified and active fraud tion on subcontractors and intermediaries, as well conducting and corruption risks. due diligence checks in all business areas. The sustainable procurement section (page 83) provides more details on how Identified high-risk countries report separately on risks through we work with suppliers. a separate risk reporting process. Reporting misconduct Antitrust Our employees and customers are encouraged to report actual Commercial policy and pricing are set independently and or suspected misconduct, such as concerns related to bribery, never agreed with competitors or other non-related parties. fraud, labour grievances, discrimination or other ethical issues It is a fundamental corporate principle of DNV GL Group AS concerning colleagues, suppliers, subcontractors or agents and its subsidiaries (’DNV GL’) to compete vigorously and fairly, working on behalf of DNV GL. A new mandatory e-learning in full compliance with all applicable antitrust and competition on reporting of misconduct for our employees has been set laws. Any obstruction of free and open competition is strictly for rollout in early 2019. prohibited. Channels for reporting misconduct are set out in our instrucFor employees, antitrust is part of our mandatory training tions on the reporting of misconduct, the Code of Conduct, programme and our antitrust instructions are supplemented the DNV GL intranet and on our website. by a guideline on the ‘dos and don’ts for competition law’. Performance TABLE 10 REPORTED NEW POTENTIAL COMPLIANCE CASES Supplier training Case type 2018 2017 2016 In 2018, a new web-based training for suppliers Labour was developed ready for rollout in 2019. The training (suspicion of harassment, 5 9 10 emphasises compliance with the Code of Conduct, discrimination or breach of other labour-related instructions) covering expectations on anti-corruption, antitrust, personal data protection, reporting of misconduct Financial and export control and sanctions. 9 11 7 (suspicion of financial misconduct) The training includes interactive exercises and requires Data Protection suppliers to confirm they understand and commit to (suspicion of breach of data 17 5 10 protection laws) comply with DNV GL’s expectations. Business areas will decide which suppliers are required to take the training. Ethical Behaviour 15 25 10 To ensure accessibility and maximum reach, the online (suspicion of unfair treatment) training platform allows external access, can be used on a smartphone and tracks training completion by suppliers. Other (all other suspicions of breach 12 12 7 The system is also modular allowing existing training of law or internal instructions) to be expanded with additional content as needed. Total 58 62 44 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 77 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION MAINTAINING SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Why it matters For any organization, robust financial performance is essential Our business success generates many benefits for society. to long-term success. With a history stretching back to 1864, From creating direct and indirect employment, to paying taxes it has always been prerequisite for running our business, and it where we operate and ensuring good financial performance remains so today. Our economic performance is an important part to maintain sustainable operations and invest in our future. of how we view sustainability. For DNV GL, being sustainable means delivering long-term value in financial, environmental, social and ethical terms. 78 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Progress in 2018 Looking ahead Revenue for the year was NOK 19,639 million with an operating Our current business strategy runs until 2020. During 2019, profit of NOK 549 million. At the end of 2018, DNV GL Group had a we will start to develop a new strategy for beyond 2020 that total equity of NOK 15,951 million. We employed 12,101 employees will define our plans for robust financial and sustainable paying a total of NOK 11,224 million in employee wages and performance going forward. benefits. Total tax expenses were NOK 160 million for the year. We continue to commit 5% of our annual revenues to research and innovation programmes, which helps us to fulfil our purpose to safeguard life, property and the environment. Approach Tax We are solely owned by Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, a freeDNV GL’s approach and guiding principles in managing standing, independent Norwegian foundation whose long-lasting our tax affairs are as follows: purpose is to safeguard life, property and the environment. This purpose is realized mainly through the 100% ownership DNV GL is dependent upon society’s trust. of DNV GL Group AS. DNV GL shall not participate in tax planning or financial transactions which can damage this trust. Our owner requires DNV GL to run profitable operations and DNV GL is to comply with the letter and spirit of tax law society at large benefits from the employment, taxes and other in all countries in which we operate. economic activity we create. As a result, many stakeholders rely All group company transactions are to be made on an on DNV GL to effectively manage our economic performance. arm’s length basis as set out under the OECD Guidelines. Sustainable and profitable growth is a key criterion for our success. Tax cost and risk assessments are to be integrated All business areas are expected to meet or exceed their annual in all core business considerations, both strategic revenue targets, but growth must not take place at the expense and in day-to-day operations. DNV GL is committed to being fully compliant and will of profitability, quality and the integrity of our operations. provide sufficient information and economic context when reporting to and negotiating with tax authorities. More information on our tax liabilities in 2018 is available in the financial statements on page 124. Performance West, India, South Middle The economic value we generated Central and East Great North South North South East and and distributed globally in 2018 was: Nordics Europe Europe Britain America America Asia Asia Africa Revenues 1 5 125 1 738 2 962 1 423 3 538 322 2 302 1 011 1 254 Operating costs 2 1 445 420 1 063 436 1 531 124 909 394 585 Employee wages and benefits 3 153 1 289 1 733 908 1 785 170 980 582 624 Payments to providers of capital 3 17 45 1 4 1 1 0 0 6 Payments to governments 80 82 75 16 14 7 118 10 47 Community investments 7 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Economic value retained 422 (99) 89 59 207 21 295 24 (9) 1 External revenue and interest income 2 Operating costs excluding employee wages and benefits, amortizations and impairment 3 External interest expenses ANNUAL REPORT 2018 79 Solar panels on the rooftop of the Arnhem office, the Netherlands. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE REDUCING OUR CLIMATE IMPACT Why it matters Climate action is a critical task for society. It is also a priority holders’ expectations. We are carbon neutral and have offset for DNV GL. Reducing our climate impact is part of the commitour emissions for our offices, laboratories and travel in 2018. ment to continually improve our environmental sustainability. It is embedded in our purpose, ‘to safeguard life, property and the We aim to deliver safer, smarter and greener performance environment’, and in our vision ‘to deliver Global impact for a safe in everything we do. We offer many sustainable services and sustainable future’. This ensures that we safeguard the environto our customers, and they in turn expect us to reduce our ment and climate, and comply with regulations and our stakeenvironmental impact. 80 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Progress in 2018 Our Group strategy 2015–2020 included a commitment to Our Arnhem Power TIC Laboratory is a major contributor become carbon neutral. We acheived this in 2018 and have to our operational GHG emissions because it uses sulphur reduced our emissions with verified carbon offsets from First hexafluoride (SF6), a powerful greenhouse gas, for electrical Climate. We have contributed to the Isangi REDD+ project, the testing. In 2018, we used 147.8 kg of SF6 emitting 3,400 tCO2e. Rainforest Community project and to efficient cooking stoves. Energy use 2018 is the second year we have reported greenhouse gas In 2018, we used 111 gigawatt hours (GWh) of energy in our (GHG) emissions from offices, laboratories and business travel operations, up 6% from 103.71 GWh in 2017. 34.6 GWh of for 100% of DNV GL employees. Our reporting is based on this energy (31.2%) comes from certified renewable sources, measurements of environmental substances and estimations up from 32.8 GWh in 2017. where direct measurements are not available. Emissions from rail travel are reported for the first time this year. Incidents and compliance We have established initiatives to tackle our three main GHG We had no environmental incidents in 2018 and no nonemission sources. These include restrictions on non-customer compliances or fines related to environmental regulations. related air travel, managing our company car fleet to reduce emissions (page 84) and our Green office plan to reduce emissions from our offices through green building certification and reducing floor space – and therefore energy use – per employee (page 84). 100% of our emissions We also set environmental goals in key countries to support our in 2018 were offset Group-wide goals and objectives. through verified schemes GHG emissions In 2018, we emitted a total of 65,496 tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) emissions, 6% down from 2017. The main reasons for this are a reduction of the number of offices, more efficient energy use 65.5 in offices, decline in business activity of the Arnhem PTIC labthousand tonnes of CO2e oratory and more precise accounting of our car travel as a result emitted from offices, lab of our car fleet management programme. 56% of our emissions operations, air and car travel are from business air travel, 36% from offices and operations and 8% from business car travel. Rail travel is currently negligible. Looking ahead During 2019, we will work on programmes that further reduce During 2019, we will work with our Energy business area to GHG emissions from our main sources: travel by air and car, analyse the implications of the Directive on our operations and emissions from offices and laboratories. Our green office and sustainability ambitions. plan will be introduced in 2019 and the car fleet management programme will continue in 2019 (see the sustainable procureEmployee awareness ment section (page 83) for details on these programmes). To ensure success with our sustainability objectives, we need to make sure the objectives are supported by our employees. Energy efficiency To help with this, we will develop a DNV GL sustainability guide The 2012 European Energy Efficiency Directive established for employees to outline requirements and best practices for a set of binding measures to help the EU reach its 20% saving energy and improving environmental performance. energy efficiency target by 2020. Under the Directive, large Topics will include energy saving, waste reduction and using companies are required to independently audit their energy less water. consumption every four years to help identify ways to reduce it. 1 Errors in energy reporting for 2017 were corrected for several locations and more precise numbers were provided from landlords. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 81 Approach Our purpose and vision promote environmental protection and Green supply chains we aim to develop a culture that delivers safer, smarter, greener As part of our approach to sustainable procurement (page 85), performance in everything we do. Part of this is continuously we select suppliers and subcontractors that comply with our reducing the environmental and climate impact of our own environmental policies and standards. operations and those of our customers (see also sustainable innovations on page 54). Climate and environmental governance As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we take a precautionary Our health, safety and environment (HSE) policy sets out our approach to managing our environmental and climate aspects. common approach, processes and systems for managing Our Code of Conduct also states our commitment to reduce environmental performance throughout the Group. The Group the environmental impact of our operations, procurement, HSE function is responsible for governing and controlling investment and property management. environmental performance across the Group. Environmental management system How we calculate our GHG emissions Since 2008, DNV GL Group has been independently certified We calculate our GHG emissions in line with the GHG Protocol. to the ISO 14001 environmental management system standard. For 2018, we have used the financial and operational control Periodic audits take place to maintain our certification, which approach, with the operational control criteria defining the is key to identifying and reducing our environmental impacts boundary for consolidating the greenhouse gas emissions. on an ongoing basis. It also contributes to our reputation as a Location-based emissions are reported globally. service provider that enables the safe and sustainable performance of our customers. Emission factors for air travel, chemical consumption and fossil fuels are based on Defra CO2 emission factors. Priorities Our operational priorities are to reduce energy consumption and Indirect emissions from electricity and district heating have GHG emissions. We measure and report on these aspects annually. been calculated using country-specific grid average emission factors published by IEA 2018 revision. Environmental management reporting system and tool We measure and monitor our key environmental aspects and For 2018, we do not report the greenhouse gases CH4, N2O, any environmental incidents using the Synergi Life tool. We HFCs, PFCs, or NF3. We do not report NOX and SOX emissions. measure GHG emissions from air and rail travel with reporting We are not aware of having any emissions of ozone depleting tools from our travel agencies. substances. Performance ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GWH) 2018 2017 2016 GHG EMISSIONS Basis of reporting energy consumption: In 2018, 108 locations covering 78% of DNV GL employees reported energy use. Energy consumption for the remaining Energy consumption (GWh) 110.7 103.7 88.3 22% of employees is estimated based on the global average energy consumption per square meter. Basis of reporting GHG emissions: Scope 1 and 2 emissions come from GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (tCO2e) 2018 2017 2016 DNV GL energy consumption and burning of liquid fuel and gas within our offices and operations. Scope 3 emissions come from business air, rail and car travel. Scope 1: Direct GHG 5.6 9.9 11.2 Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions per emissions from operations person from all the DNV GL operations were 5.4 tCO2e per employee. Scope 2: Indirect GHG Air travel resulted in 36.4 tCO2e in 2018 18.0 15.6 12.3 and is based on data from travel agencies emissions from consumed energy covering 97% permanent and temporary employees. Emissions are estimated for Scope 3: Direct GHG emissions the remaining 3% of employees. 41.9 43.7 17.3 from air,car and rail travel Air and rail travel 56% Car travel resulted in 5,550 tCO2e in 2018. Emissions from car travel are estiBuildings 36% mated based on the average distance Total GHG emissions 65.5 69.5 40.6 driven per car per year. Numbers for Car travel 8% private cars are taken from our financial system where available. 82 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Reception area, Singapore office. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT PURCHASING SUSTAINABLY Why it matters Working in more than 100 countries, our operations are We follow a consistent procurement programme that allows supported by a global network of suppliers and subcontractors. us to monitor our suppliers’ progress towards achieving DNV GL’s vision – ‘global impact for a safe and sustainable future’ sustainable operations. We continue to strengthen our – applies as much to our supply chain as it does to our own approach by installing systematic procurement policies operations and the services we provide. We work closely with our and practices Group-wide. suppliers to ensure that they operate according to our supplier Code of Conduct and in line with our sustainability goals. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 83 Progress in 2018 In 2018, we continued with sustainable procurement projects initiated in 2017. This included completing a review and update of all relevant governance documents for procurement. All procurement staff were trained in the revised policies and procedures, and new staff attended a two-day training programme on procurement governance. We also completed the installation of software for tracking, monitoring and reporting supplier data. 25% of our offices are in green-certified buildings Assessing suppliers 70% less solid waste in All contracts with new suppliers in 2018 included our supplier green-certified buildings Code of Conduct. During the year, selected indirect suppliers in all than standard offices regions were audited against the code. We completed 12 supplier audits and the results showed no significant infringements. We have scheduled a minimum of 10 further audits for 2019. Green offices We also developed a dedicated risk assessment tool for indirect Our goal is for all offices with more than 100 employees to suppliers in 2018 based on our supplier Code of Conduct. have a gold-rated, or equivalent, green building certification The tool screens new suppliers’ risk level and will be rolled by the end of 2024. This means our minimum requirement is the out in 2019 as part of our supplier management process. second highest rating by any of the green building standards. Currently, 25% of our offices are in green-certified buildings (BREEAM excellent or LEED gold standard), including offices Energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in Oslo, Houston, London, Singapore, Shanghai and Arnhem, We continue to focus on reducing energy use and greenhouse the Netherlands. gas emissions through procurement. This includes cleaner company cars and renting environmentally-sound offices. Green buildings are estimated to consume 30 to 50% less energy, use 40% less water, emit 30 to 40% less CO2 and Company cars produce about 70% less solid waste than standard offices. In 2018, we changed how we manage our global fleet of approximately 1,500 company cars to make the procurement Human rights and administration process more efficient. A global fleet Our supplier Code of Conduct outlines our expectation management team was set up and, for the first time, a fixed that suppliers are not complicit in human rights abuses. maximum CO2 emission limit was established (120 g/km for passenger cars). We have also added electric and hybrid We have not identified any human rights risks or noncars to the list of company cars. compliance in our supplier audits (see above). We will continue to assess suppliers through our planned audits and new risk assessment tool. Most of our office hubs, including Oslo, Houston, London, Singapore, Shanghai and Arnhem, are in greencertified buildings. 84 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Looking ahead We have launched a global procurement programme to establish Improving office efficiency common processes, tools and systems for the whole company. We are working to reduce vacant office space and ensure that The new programme, which will run through 2019, aims to all new office leases comply with our new standard for effective improve the efficiency, quality and digitalization of procurement office spaces. The standard aims to improve work place perforacross the company. The key objectives are to: mance, office efficiency and reduce overall energy consumption. Set up a standardized procurement process across DNV GL. Our real estate guidelines specify that effective office spaces Improve supplier monitoring and management. should fit modern, practical purposes and increase visibility Ensure that procurement activities comply with DNV GL procureand connectivity across teams and managers to enable sharing ment policies, our sustainability goals and local regulations. of knowledge and teamwork. Our analysis of office space needs for the future indicates that a total space reduction of 40% is Assessing suppliers achievable by 2024. The plan will lead to a major reduction We will continue our audit programme for indirect suppliers and in energy use and related CO2 emissions. have minimum of 10 audits planned for 2019. We will also roll out our new risk assessment tool for indirect suppliers during the year. Approach Global governance, local purchasing We procure most products and services locally. However, responAll suppliers are required accept our supplier Code of Conduct sibility for our procurement strategy, policy, processes and and must sign the code or accept it as a mandatory attachment tools, as well as global procurement projects, is centralized to the contract. Subcontractors must also comply with health, within our Global Shared Services (GSS) unit. safety and environment requirements and standards that are equivalent to our own. We use checklists to ensure appropriate We divide suppliers into two main groups: Direct suppliers standards are met by subcontractors in line with the Code of provide services that form part of our service to customers, Conduct. for example, subcontractors providing technical expertise or conducting management system certifications on our behalf. Further guidelines that promote high standards and support Indirect suppliers provide goods and services for our overall sustainability are provided in management system documents, business activities, such as facilities management, travel, ICT such as instructions for contracting subcontractors and interhardware and software, financial services, insurance, and mediaries, policy for real-estate management and real-estate office supplies. leasing guidelines. Individual business areas are responsible for direct procurement. Risk management Indirect procurement is managed by GSS. Our largest supplier Although our supplier portfolio is mostly service-related and categories by expenditure are subcontractors, office and real has a low risk of non-compliance, all new indirect suppliers are estate expenses, ICT, travel and insurance. screened for inherent sustainability risks before we complete the contracting process. We also carry out audits on selected Setting high standards suppliers. Our supplier Code of Conduct outlines our expectations for suppliers. It is aligned with the UN Global Compact’s ten To manage risk and ensure cost savings and transparency, principles on human rights, labour standards, environmental we are working to consolidate suppliers globally and select performance and anti-corruption. trustworthy suppliers whose values and service quality meet our requirements. Competence development We train new employees involved in procurement centrally All our suppliers must accept our supplier every year. Training includes general procurement governance Code of Conduct and we perform audits and the supplier Code of Conduct. to ensure compliance. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 85 COLLABORATING FOR A BETTER FUTURE Our vision of a safe and sustainable future is not ours alone and we know we can achieve more in collaboration with others. We work in partnership with several organizations, contributing technology and sustainability expertise as well as funding to reach our shared goals. Why it matters Our purpose and vision set ambitious direction and goals As a knowledge-based organization, we constantly need for how we want to make a difference. The biggest issues are to learn, be challenged and inspired by other organizations not solved alone and the best ideas are developed together. – and challenge and inspire them in return. 86 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Through our daily business in more We strive to bring our technical insight than 100 countries, we work together and market foresight into the work with customers, suppliers and competitors of industry associations to create in industry associations and on initiatives sustainable business environments. at national, regional and global levels. Industry partnerships Group Energy United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) International Council on Large Electric Systems (CIGRE) World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Global Wind Energy Council (GWEC) Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO) World Energy Council (WEC) Maritime Business Assurance International Association of Classification Societies (IACS) Independent International Organisation Entity for the Quality Assessment and Certification of for Certification (IIOC) Organisations Recognised by the European Union (QACE) International Council on Combustion Engines (CIMAC) Digital Solutions Oil & Gas Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Pipeline Simulation Interest Group (PSIG) Norwegian Oil and Gas Association (NOROG) American Gas Association (AGA) International Gas Union (IGU) Oil and Gas UK Global Opportunity Report 2018 GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY In 2018, we launched our updated The 2018 report concentrated REPORT 2018 Global Opportunity Report in partnership on working towards four of the with UN Global Compact and Sustainia. Sustainable Development Goals: The report is based on interviews with SDG 10 “Reduced Inequalities”, over 17,000 business leaders, from SDG 12 “Responsible Consumption CEOs of established corporations to and Production”, SDG 13 “Climate Your guide to a world of opportunities start-up entrepreneurs, and features Action”, and SDG 14 “Life Below their business solutions to tackle the Water”. Download report here. world’s biggest risks. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 87 UN Global World Business Compact Council for Sustainable Development DNV GL became a signatory to the UN Global Compact DNV GL has been an active member of the World Business in 2003 and we are committed to embedding the ten Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) since 1999. principles on human rights, labour, environment and Our Group President and CEO is a member of its Executive anti-corruption in our corporate strategy, management Committee and was recently re-elected for two more years. system and day-to-day operations. We also align our Our membership of the WBCSD provides a partnership annual report with this framework. In 2018, we continued platform for our advocacy of more sustainable and our strong collaboration with the UN Global Compact responsible business practices globally. through initiatives on global opportunities and solutions to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals, including: GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY NETWORK LOW CARBON TECHNOLOGY PARTNERSHIPS INITIATIVE DNV GL was a founding partner of the Global Opportunity Network This is an action-oriented programme, led by the WBCSD, together with the UN Global Compact and Sustainia in 2013. This International Energy Agency (IEA) and Sustainable Development network presents the Global Opportunity Report annually. The 2018 Solutions Network (SDSN), that gathers over 150 global companies report focuses on the renewed efforts required to ensure four of the and 70 other partners. We contributed to the work on scaling-up 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals do not miss their 2030 targets. renewables with two business solutions: Corporate renewable power purchase agreements: THE GLOBAL OPPORTUNITY EXPLORER scaling up globally The UN Global Compact, Sustainia and DNV GL partnered to launch the Low-carbon microgrids Global Opportunity Explorer, a digital community including several of the most promising solutions that will change the world for the better. NEW ENERGY SOLUTIONS The Explorer continues to grow with new solutions added daily. This project identifies cutting-edge energy solutions that help companies to go low-carbon. Many of these energy transition SUSTAINABLE OCEAN BUSINESS solutions are cross-sectoral and require collaboration across the DNV GL is a founding member of the new UN Global Compact value chain to develop sound business cases. The project worked Action Platform for Sustainable Ocean Business, launched in 2018. on a two-pronged approach: The platform will explore viable solutions and best practices for sustainable use and management of the ocean. The first deliverable A presentation on pathways and technologies to decarbonize is a DNV GL report on global ocean governance and regulation; energy systems addressing the effectiveness of current regimes when balancing Creating business cases on existing low-carbon energy solutions the ongoing, inevitable expansion of ocean industries and the ready for deployment. DNV GL contributed to this, showcasing associated risks to the ocean environment. The report specifically electric shipping and shore-to-ship power solutions. looks at governance issues related to the challenges of climate change, biodiversity loss and ocean plastics. 88 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The Red Cross DNV GL has partnered with the Red Cross since 2004 with the British Red Cross organizations, as well as extraordinary objectives of strengthening its capacity to carry out humanidonations. Our employees also provide technical, digital, tarian work and creating opportunities for our employees to safety and sustainability expertise to Red Cross projects volunteer for Red Cross projects. Our partnership involves that are related to our core business. annual financial contributions to the Norwegian, Dutch and NORWAY The tool helps relief workers manage resources, coordinate rescue Our employees were involved in volunteering and fundraising, and response efforts and respond quickly. The CEP MAP tool was including for homework support and activity holidays for less tested in several pilots by the Philippine Red Cross and at the privileged children and their families. moment it is being rolled out nationally to 21 PRC Chapters in 210 Barangays of 54 Communities. In addition, many of our employees volunteer as blood donors to help alleviate the national shortage in Norway. We invite the In addition, DNV GL provided technical assistance and played an Red Cross blood donation bus to our headquarters at Høvik several important role to the PRC’s response to the recent Typhoon Mangkhut. times a year. In 2018, 164 bags of blood were filled. Based on the CEP MAP training on mapping techniques, the PRC staff were able to quickly map areas in the typhoon’s path, allowing The Red Cross also provides first aid training for our employees the Red Cross to send resources where they were needed the most. and children in our kindergarten. This collaboration was highlighted in Arendalsuka 2018, in a seminar THE PHILIPPINES called: Technology which is changing the world. DNV GL has joined efforts with Norwegian Red Cross and Philippine Red Cross (PRC) to digitalize disaster relief efforts. UK The collaboration has resulted in the development of the CEP MAP DNV GL staff in the UK have supported a number or UK charities tool, enabling emergency response workers to access constantly during 2018, raising in excess of £2,500. The Mark Pollock Trust, updated information from multiple sources on smartphones. The Lord Mayor’s Appeal and the British Red Cross were the top three beneficiaries. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 89 90 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PERFORMANCE The Board of Directors’ report provides a comprehensive review of DNV GL’s strategy and performance for the year as well as the Board’s outlook for the future. The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act and regulations on simplified IFRS. The sustainability reporting is according to the GRI Standards. The financial reporting is audited and the sustainability reporting is assured by an independent third party. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 91 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2018 DNV GL strengthened its market position as a leading classification and assurance company during the year. The company recorded operating revenues of NOK 19,639 million in 2018. Business Assurance, with a growth of 11%, has been the main engine for growth in 2018, whereas Maritime had a relatively strong performance the two last quarters. 92 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ecause of cost savings and efficiency improvements, Market B earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) for the year improved by NOK 630 million from last year. However, due to MARITIME. In the maritime industry, seaborne trade continued a significant deterioration in the market conditions to grow at a rate of around 3%, with earnings in most sectors for high-power laboratory testing, an impairment loss related improving. Newbuilding ordering activity picked up significantly to Energy laboratories of NOK 552 million was recorded. throughout the year, ending some 20% higher than 2017, measured The net result for the year ended at NOK 116 million. in GT. DNV GL’s newbuilding market share reached approximately 24%, significantly ahead of the other classification societies. A recent brand survey conducted in 2018 showed that trust in DNV GL is very high. Customers and stakeholders value DNV GL’s DNV GL’s newbuilding market share was strong across all ship technical expertise when selecting a service provider like DNV GL. segments. Once again DNV GL won some of the most prestigious The DNV GL Group employs 12,100 people, has operations in projects of the year, including two ICON series vessels from Royal more than 80 countries and its headquarters are located at Høvik, Caribbean International at Meyer yard, four 23k TEU container just outside Oslo, Norway. DNV GL is organized in a group vessels from Hyundai Merchant Marine at Samsung – the largest structure with five business areas: Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy, container vessels ordered in 2018, and eight VLCCs ordered by Business Assurance and Digital Solutions. Common support Norwegian owner Hunter Tankers at Daewoo. services within IT, finance, HR and procurement are provided through a global shared services organization. At the end of 2018, the DNV GL-classed fleet stood at 11,700 vessels and MOUs, totalling 280.6 million GT, an increase of The Board sincerely thanks the management and employees for the almost 2% in gross tonnage. This means that DNV GL improved hard work and commitment they have displayed throughout 2018. its position as the largest classification society, with 20.2% of the total world fleet measured by GT in class. Digitalization initiatives aimed at improving both our customers’ Strategy and our own operational efficiency have been one of the focus areas for DNV GL. In 2018, DNV GL successfully implemented a DNV GL’s strategy sets ambitious goals for further developing smart survey booking tool, additional machine learning functionalities the company as a world leading assurance and risk management to better direct customer queries through the DATE (Direct company within maritime as the leading classification society in Access to Technical Experts) service, and IMO-compliant electronic contracted tonnage, within oil & gas as the provider of technical class and statutory certificates across DNV GL’s entire classed verification and assessment services, within the power and fleet. Furthermore, an enhanced survey approach has been renewables industries as the leading provider of testing, certiintroduced to improve risk management and make surveys fication and technical advisory services, as well as the leading more effective. provider of management system certification services, assurance and digital solutions across industries. As the corporate parent, DNV GL’s Maritime CEO Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen completed his year as DNV GL will contribute to the best possible ownership of each Chairman of the International Association of Classification Societies business unit through active ownership. (IACS) in July 2018. Over his year in office, DNV GL introduced initiatives to strengthen and modernize the role of class and enhance The 2015–2020 strategic plan is to develop DNV GL as a leading the quality and transparency of IACS as an organization. company in a digital, agile and efficient future. The ambition is to develop DNV GL into a data smart company using digital solutions The year ended on a high note: The prestigious maritime newspaper to develop new revenue streams and market positions across all Lloyd’s List ranked DNV GL as the No.1 classification society for the business areas. The newest business area, Digital Solutions, second year in a row. The jury honoured DNV GL’s commitment completed its first full year of operations. Digital Solutions to innovation and its leading market position, commenting that combines digital capabilities with DNV GL’s well-established “DNV GL has jumped considerably ahead of the competition in 2018”. domain expertise. DNV GL’s industry data platform, Veracity, was made public and open for external users during 2018. OIL & GAS. Industry confidence rebounded sharply in 2018. Activity in oil and gas markets started rising as development The company is upholding its commitment to invest 5% of its projects received the go ahead. annual revenues in research and innovation activities. 60% of the research and innovation activities are dedicated to digitalization. DNV GL is active in pursuing joint innovation projects and partnerships with academia and business in areas such as artificial The ambition is to develop DNV GL intelligence, machine learning and autonomous systems. into a data smart company using digital solutions to develop new revenue streams and DNV GL will continue to invest in R&D and develop the skills and market positions across all business areas. knowledge of its employees to stay at the forefront of technology and innovation and to fulfil its purpose and vision. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 93 However, with operators focused on efficient investment to keep BUSINESS ASSURANCE. The most significant part of DNV GL oil and gas relevant in a decarbonizing world of ever cheaper Business Assurance´s revenue is generated from management renewable energy, the industry was keeping the lid on costs. system certification (MSC). In 2018, the management systems Supply chain margins therefore remained under pressure. market was driven by new versions of ISO standards. DNV GL was able to capture a significant share of that growth by successfully DNV GL’s response included the development of digital services supporting customers in their transitioning to the new standards. to increase its own efficiency and enhance service delivery to We transitioned all projects in our MSC customer portfolio. customers. In 2018, DNV GL successfully piloted live-streamed inspections and surveys with customers. Nearly 40 DNV GL-led DNV GL also acquired full ownership of Presafe, an accredited joint industry projects were progressing as neutral platforms for certification body and EU Notified Body for Medical Devices and customers to collaborate on to reduce complexity and cost. Hazardous Area Equipment. The ownership will contribute to a strong business foundation for product certification services. In addition, ENERGY. Advisory services in power and renewables experienced DNV GL expanded its footprint within supply chain assurance. increased demand in 2018 as the energy transition gathered pace. Solar PV and wind power have become increasingly competitive In 2018, DNV GL secured a strategic monitory share in the blockenergy sources. In addition, viable energy storage solutions chain technology partner VeChain and launched My Story™. DNV GL and increasing energy efficiency, are helping the shift to a cleaner pioneered a new digital assurance offering using blockchain energy future. These developments have boosted the need for technology and developed new digitally enabled business models. expert support in decision-making in a complex energy market. Assurance needs in the food & beverage and healthcare sectors are Utilities and power system operators are adding energy storage growing. Subsequently, in 2018, revenue growth for these sectors and digitalizing system controls to enable the integration of was 11% and 14%. variable renewable energy sources. Energy intensive industries are increasing their attention to energy efficiency measures to DIGITAL SOLUTIONS. Digital Solutions was established as a new reduce costs and emissions. Improvement in energy efficiency business area on January 1 2018 and brought together the legacy remains one of the most cost-effective ways to enhance security Software organization, the industry platform Veracity, and advisory of energy supply, boost welfare, reduce the environmental services related to digitalization, cyber security, data and analytics. footprint of the energy system, and address climate challenges. The Digital Technology Centre was formed as part of the new business area to support digitalization activities in DNV GL. Certification services for renewables continued to be under price pressure in 2018 due to consolidation among customers, Although the main market segments for Digital Solutions such increasing competitiveness and subsidy-free power generation. as energy, oil and gas, are still suffering from slow economic Cost-cutting measures, business process optimization and strong conditions, Digital Solutions increased revenue from software customer relationships led to the recovery of DNV GL’s renewables licences and services by 14% globally. In particular, the pipeline certification activities towards the end of the year. ecosystem showed strong growth. Regionally, Asia Pacific saw a healthy development, with an increased software licence and The opportunities for growth in the renewables sector are services revenue of 20% compared to 2017. increasingly recognized by the financial sector as an attractive area in which to invest. DNV GL sees a growing demand for grid Digital Solutions made considerable progress in moving from onintegration services, technical due diligence and performance premise software business to delivering Software-as-as-Service (SaaS). monitoring services for financiers within wind, solar and power grids. The transformation is accelerating and SaaS revenue more than doubled from 2017 to 2018. In 2018, the high-power testing market experienced increasing overcapacity, leading to significant price pressure and a much Throughout 2018, Veracity developed significantly. The Veracity weaker order intake for DNV GL over the year. To adapt to the new platform was fully opened for external partners, and available for market dynamics, DNV GL is exploring new strategic options for full scale onboarding of applications, users, and data. Veracity its KEMA Laboratories in Europe and the United States. now has 1.2 million service subscriptions, 150,000 registered users, and about 400 developers innovating on the platform, At the end of 2018, DNV GL transferred the ownership of its solar of which 60% are external. There are close to 200 services/ testing labs to the management of PVEL. With the new owners, applications on Veracity. The platform grew by an average PVEL will have more flexibility to serve its customers in a very of 100 users per day. competitive market. Health and safety DNV GL sees a growing demand for grid integration services, technical due DNV GL’s overall goal is to ensure zero harm to, and a healthy diligence and performance monitoring services working environment for, its workforce. Expectations for suppliers for financiers within wind, solar and power grids. include compliance with equivalent health and safety requirements for services rendered on the DNV GL premises and subcontracted survey-type work outside normal office locations. 94 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The Energy business area achieved revenues of NOK 3,620 million, reflecting a contraction of 1.1%. Business Assurance ended the The company’s commitments to year with growth of 11.2% and revenues of NOK 3,645 million, customers, employees and business driven by transition activities coinciding with re-certification partners are guided by DNV GL’s purpose of activities, both adding volumes to the Management System safeguarding life, property and the environment. Certification portfolio. Digital Solutions experienced a growth of 4.9% in 2018 and delivered external revenues of NOK 912 million. With retroactive effect 1 January 2018, the shares in the real estate In 2018, there were no fatalities (work-related deaths) involving company Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS were transferred from DNV GL employees. Sadly, there were two cases where Det Norske Veritas Holding AS to DNV GL Group AS through employees were taken ill in the field and subsequently died. a combined merger-demerger transaction. Det Norske Veritas While work related factors were not a cause, DNV GL are Eiendom AS has consequently been consolidated into DNV GL continuously looking for ways to improve the health of employees Group in 2018 and the external revenue of NOK 206 million and encourage a healthy lifestyle. To this end, DNV GL is working represents a revenue growth of 1.1%. on initiatives to ensure that employees are resilient and fit for work and will introduce global requirements for medical health checks The continued business volume contractions in Maritime and Oil & Gas in 2018 were offset by cost and capacity reductions in to support this. these two business areas, as well as continuous cost reductions From January 2018, lost time injury cases and occupational in group-wide support functions and a positive contribution from disease cases involving other workers (non-DNV GL employees) Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS. Overall, this led to a significant have been reported and investigated but they are no longer improvement in the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation included in the reported figures below. and amortization (EBITDA), from NOK 1,342 million in 2017 to NOK 1,972 million in 2018. The long-term trend for injuries and occupational diseases was stable, with a slight improvement. At year-end, the 12-month Due to a significant deterioration in the market conditions for high-power laboratory testing, an impairment loss related to rolling average (2017 in parenthesis) was 23.5 (36.2) for the Lost Energy laboratories of NOK 552 million has been reflected. Together Day Rate, 0.9 (1.0) for the Injury Rate, 0.6 (1.0) for the Occupational with depreciation and amortization of intangible assets of NOK 871 Disease Rate and 2.4 (2.4) for the Absentee Rate. The number of million, this resulted in operating profit (EBIT) of NOK 549 million, injuries leading to lost days was 19 (23), while the number of up from NOK 474 million in 2017. occupational disease cases resulting in lost days was 14 (24). The net financial expenses were NOK 273 million in 2018, compared The number of occupational diseases with lost time reported for to NOK 110 million in 2017. The change from 2017 is primarily due 2017 is corrected from 22 to 24 due to one new case recorded to negative currency effects incurred in 2018 with a weaker NOK. after the deadline for external reporting, and one case not The other main financial items were net interest costs from defined correctly reported in 2018. Both cases have been investigated, benefit pension plans (NOK 22 million), write down of bank accounts and corrective actions have been implemented. in Iran following closure of the Iran Branch (NOK 30 million) and other interest costs and financial expenses. Employee health and safety performance is reviewed by the board twice a year. All in all, DNV GL’s health and safety performance is on The 2018 tax expense was NOK 160 million. The high tax level par with industry benchmarks, and a programme is in place to is partly due to non-tax-deductible items, withholding taxes on continuously strengthen the resilience of our employees and remitted earnings and losses from operation without recognition foster a learning health and safety culture. of tax assets. The net profit for the year was NOK 116 million, compared to last year’s net profit of NOK 61 million. Financial performance Cash flow from operations ended at NOK 1,091 million in 2018, compared with NOK 656 million in 2017. The improvement comes primarily from a strong EBITDA and reduced working capital. DNV GL Group AS recorded operating revenues of NOK 19,639 million in 2018, NOK 164 million higher than 2017. The overall revenue The cash flow from investments was negative NOK 425 million in growth reflects a strong growth in Business Assurance, whereas a 2018, of which investment in intangible assets of NOK 359 million decline in business volume from the maritime and oil & gas markets relates to the development of commercial software within Digital continued in 2018. The overall revenue contraction from services Solutions, in-house Oracle ERP implementation and system was 0.4%, while the relative weakening of the NOK contributed integration in the Business Areas. The NOK 306 million investwith a positive currency effect of 0.1%. ments in tangible fixed assets are primarily related to Energy laboratories and investments related to real estate. Of the NOK The Maritime business area recorded revenues of NOK 6,702 million, 288 million sale of tangible fixed assets, the sale of properties corresponding to a contraction of 4.6% compared to 2017. The Oil & Gas in Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS amounted to NOK 225 million. business area reported revenues of NOK 4,455 million, representing a contraction of 3.0%. The decline in these two business areas’ volumes Financing activities of NOK 1,698 million, of which NOK 1,900 million abated in the second half of the year, and the company recorded pertain to payment of dividend to Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, a slight growth in Maritime and a reduced contraction in Oil & Gas. led to a net cash flow for the year of negative NOK 1,032 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 95 At year-end, the DNV GL Group had liquidity reserves of NOK 2,631 million plus an unused credit line of NOK 1,000 million. The Group has a strong balance sheet, with an equity ratio of DNV GL’s main financial risks are its 56.7% of total assets. NOK 4,000 million dividend to the parent market risk (interest rate and foreign company Det Norske Veritas Holding AS has been declared in currency risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and 2018 as well as Group contributions after tax of NOK 161 million, political risk related to trade sanctions. reducing the equity accordingly. The merger of Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS into DNV GL Group led to a positive merger difference of NOK 1,082 million reflected in the equity in 2018. Based on value-at-risk methodology, the analysis includes Due to a weaker NOK against currencies where the Group has potential losses from operations, foreign-exchange exposure, its major balance sheet exposure, foreign currency gains of financial investments and pension plan assets and liabilities. NOK 133 million relating to net investments in foreign subsidiaries The book equity less the maximum calculated loss illustrates were reflected in equity in 2018. DNV GL’s total risk exposure and the amount that can be lost in a worst-case scenario. This exercise gives the Board a measurable Net actuarial losses of NOK 21 million from defined benefit overview of the key quantified risks and DNV GL’s capacity to pension plans were reflected in equity at the year-end. take on additional risk. The accounts of the parent company, DNV GL Group AS, show a With increasing digitalization comes an increased risk relating to profit for the year of NOK 1,906 million. The profit is mainly cyber security. DNV GL will pay due attention to cyber security generated from dividend from subsidiaries. The Board proposes risks related to our business. Its guideline for IT security to transfer the profit for the year to other equity. describes the requirements for ensuring business continuity, responsiveness and maintaining the integrity of DNV GL’s digital The Board confirms that the going concern assumption applies services. DNV GL has achieved ISO 27001 certification of its and that the financial statements have been prepared on this IT operations, and the Board will continue to review the cyber basis. Although the Board regards DNV GL’s net result for 2018 security risk annually. as weak, the equity ratio remains strong and constitutes a robust Severe quality, safety and integrity risks in the company represent platform to achieve our strategic targets and maintain our another focus area. Numerous barriers exist to minimize the chance independence as a financially strong and trusted company. of such events occurring, and DNV GL’s management system is The Board also confirms that, to the best of its knowledge, the constantly being scrutinized to ensure that the company is managing information presented in the financial statements gives a true and this risk satisfactorily. fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the DNV GL Group for the period, and that there are no other DNV GL’s main financial risks are its market risk (interest rate and material events after the balance sheet date affecting the 2018 foreign currency risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and political risk financial statements. related to trade sanctions. Interest rate risk: as the company has had limited external borrowings, its exposure to interest rate risk is primarily due to its defined Corporate risk management benefit pension commitments. Lower interest rates over the past few years have led to an increase in the pension commitments. The Board underlines the importance of continuously having a The company has closed all existing defined benefit pension comprehensive understanding of the risks facing DNV GL that schemes to new entrants. In addition, there is limited exposure to could affect corporate values, reputation and key business the risk of changes in market interest rates for DNV GL’s forward objectives. DNV GL has processes in place to proactively identify exchange contracts. such risks at an early stage and initiate adequate mitigating measures and actions. Foreign currency risk: DNV GL has revenues and expenses in approximately 70 currencies. Of these, six (NOK, EUR, USD, CNY, DNV GL’s risk management policy is part of the management KRW and GBP) make up 77 % of the total revenue. In most system and ensures that the risk management processes and currencies, the company has a natural hedge through a balance of culture are an integral part of everything the company does. revenues and expenses. The foreign currency policy is to focus on The policy is aligned with the ISO 31000 framework. hedging expected cash flows, primarily in US dollars. However, DNV GL is also materially exposed to the re-evaluation of balance The Board formally reviews the risk management status and sheet items, including net investments in foreign subsidiaries. outlook twice a year. The review of risks and opportunities is conducted as part of both the strategy revision process and Credit risk: receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing annual plan process. basis, with the result that the company’s exposure to bad debts is limited. There are no significant concentrations of credit risk DNV GL calculates its risk-adjusted equity on an annual basis, within the company. With respect to the credit risk arising from taking into consideration the most important risk factors. the other financial assets, which comprise cash, cash equivalents 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 and certain derivative instruments, DNV GL’s exposure to this arises from any default of the counterparty, with maximum Corporate sustainability exposure equal to the market value of these instruments. DNV GL’s vision of having a global impact for a safe and sustainable Liquidity risk: DNV GL monitors its liquidity risk on a continuous future sets the direction of the business. The company’s commitments basis. The liquidity planning considers the maturity of both the to customers, employees and business partners are guided by DNV financial investments and financial assets (e.g. accounts receivable, GL’s purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment. other financial assets) and projected cash flows from operations. DNV GL pursues continuous improvement in its sustainability performance and its management systems are certified to the ISO Corporate governance 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards. DNV GL has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact DNV GL considers sound corporate governance to be fundamental since 2003, and the Board sees the integration of the 10 principles in securing trust in the company and a cornerstone for achieving on human rights, labour standards, environmental performance sustainable value creation in the best interests of DNV GL’s and anti-corruption as critical for capturing long-term value. customers, employees, owner and other stakeholders. In 2018, DNV GL continued its partnerships with the World DNV GL issues an annual Corporate Governance Report where Business Council for Sustainable Development, the Red Cross it reports on corporate governance in accordance with the and the Global Opportunity Explorer with our founding partners Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance (“Code of UN Global Compact and Sustainia. Practice”) and applies these principles to the extent relevant for the DNV GL Group as a private limited company. The Code of DNV GL supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Practice relates to 15 topics, and DNV GL’s Corporate Governance aims to use this framework to create customer value through report covers each of these topics and describes DNV GL’s meeting societal needs. The Board considers the UN Sustainable adherence to the Code of Practice. The Corporate Governance Development Goals to be a framework for strengthening the report also describes the legal basis and principles for DNV GL’s company’s market positions. DNV GL provides strong business corporate governance structure. solutions for many of these global goals, including 7) Affordable and Clean Energy; 9) Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; and 13) The management company of the DNV GL companies is DNV GL Climate Action. The Group strategy also reflects relevant market Group AS, registered in Norway and governed by the Norwegian opportunities for the goals 3) Good Health and Well-being, 12) Private Limited Liability Companies Act. DNV GL Group is owned Responsible Consumption and Production and 14) Life below Water. 100% by Det Norske Veritas Holding AS (“DNV Holding”). DNV Holding is a private limited company registered in Norway and is In 2018, DNV GL conducted a broad stakeholder survey to identify fully owned by Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas. Stiftelsen Det Norske the most important sustainability topics. More than 1,000 responses Veritas issues a separate annual corporate governance report were received from customers, owners, suppliers, partners, available on www.detnorskeveritas.com. The Board of Directors media and employees. In addition, a global brand survey was of DNV GL Group AS consists of ten Board members and one observer. conducted which sought to identify what stakeholders value when Of the ten Board members, six are elected by the shareholder and selecting assurance and advisory services. The replies were used to four are elected by and among the DNV GL employees worldwide. guide the priorities for reporting in 2018. DNV GL reports in accordance The Board consists of six men and four women from four nationalities with the GRI Standards. In 2018, DNV GL changed reporting level with an average age of 53. The Board’s combined expertise from Comprehensive to Core Level. KPMG has conducted limited represents a range of stakeholders, markets and disciplines. assurance of the sustainability reporting on material topics. The only change in the composition of the Board during 2018 The Board refers to the Annual Report for a complete account of was that Jon Eivind Thrane as of 1 August 2018 replaced Liv Aune corporate sustainability, including information on the priorities, Hagen as a Board member elected by and amongst the employees management approach, targets and performance within the in the constituency of Norway. The Board would like to thank Liv topics of sustainable leadership, health and safety, business Aune Hagen for her contribution as board member. ethics and anti-corruption, people, environment and climate, The Board held six ordinary board meetings and one extraordinary sustainable procurement as well as partnerships for sustainability. meeting in 2018. The average attendance at these board meetings was close to 100%. The Board’s Audit Committee held four ordinary meetings and one extraordinary meeting in 2018 and the attendance at these was 100%. The Board’s Compensation The Board considers the UN Committee held three ordinary meetings and one extraordinary meeting in 2018 and the attendance at these was 100%. Sustainable Development Goals to be a framework for strengthening Further information related to the corporate governance of the company’s market positions. DNV GL can be found in the company’s Corporate Governance Report for 2018 published on DNV GL’s website. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 97 The Code of Conduct covers anti-corruption, antitrust, export Organization and people controls, sanctions and personal data protection, and definitions and processes to handle cases are in place. Information on how to report occurrences or suspicions of misconduct is published on the The total number of employees at year-end 2018 was 12,101 company website and the intranet, and from 2019 a mandatory (12,715 at year-end 2017), of which 98% are permanent employees. e-learning on reporting of misconduct is available to all employees. There is also an ethical helpline and anonymous In addition, 8,074 qualified subcontractors and expert personnel whistleblowing channel. were engaged. Employee turnover was 11.6%, with voluntary turnover at 7.0%. The continuous decline in the number of employees Compliance risks are regularly assessed as part of the corporate reflects that DNV GL still had to adjust to the contraction in some risk management process and measures are taken accordingly. markets. Consequently, headcount reductions were carried out The Group Compliance Officer reports on performance to the in some business and support units. Enhancements in digital Board’s Audit Committee quarterly, as well as to the Executive systems for financial and HR processes were implemented. Committee when relevant. A career in DNV GL should not be hindered by nationality, gender In 2018, 58 (62) potential compliance cases were reported and or age if the employee has the competence, attitude and values handled. No legal action regarding anti-competitive behaviour or needed for the role. The Board considers the company’s purpose, violations of antitrust or monopoly legislation in which DNV GL vision and values to be instrumental in attracting and retaining was identified as a participant has occurred during the reporting the diverse workforce necessary in global markets. The Board period. No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions or also emphasizes the importance of sound management of human non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in the environmental, and labour rights. The DNV GL statement pursuant to the UK social or economic areas were identified. Modern Slavery Act is signed by the Board and published on the Measures implemented in 2018 to sustain a high level of integrity company website. include training, communication and updates to governing documents following legal changes. The company finalized The employees represent 111 nationalities, and DNV GL has risk assessments with regard to suppliers and implemented 100 or more employees in 22 countries. corresponding actions in the business areas, as well as improvements on export control law. Around 1,800 employees It is important for the future of the company to further develop received individual training on compliance programme topics. diversity in terms of technical and business competence, nationalities and gender. Of the permanent employees, 86% have higher education. Environment and climate The proportion of female employees is 32% and the proportion of female managers is 26%. Safeguarding the environment is part of DNV GL’s purpose. The Group is committed to taking a precautionary approach, The focus on stronger diversity in the top levels of our organization managing and continually improving its environmental and continues. As of 31 December 2018, the Executive Committee climate performance. Assessments, improvement actions, included four women and six men, from five different nationalities. incident reporting and performance monitoring of material Two of the five operational CEOs were women at the end of topics such as energy consumption, emissions to air and waste 2018. At Senior Vice President and Vice President level, the management are followed up annually. Internal and external female proportion is currently 10.7%. At Senior Principal level audits are undertaken to assure performance. The company is diversity is increasing, strengthening the talent pool for future certified to ISO 14001 which is monitored continuously across top executives. all locations. Performance is reported to the board twice a year. Climate change mitigation and adaptation initiatives are prioritized, and the Board is monitoring this. DNV GL aims to be carbon Business ethics and anti-corruption neutral in relation to energy use in office buildings, laboratories and transportation and travel. Carbon emissions in 2018 has been DNV GL’s business model and success are based upon trust at all offset to ensure carbon neutral status. levels and in all business environments. Building trust is enshrined in the company’s values. The Board emphasizes the necessity of DNV GL prefers suppliers and subcontractors that provide services reflecting the DNV GL values and demonstrating ethical leadin compliance with the Group’s environmental and climate policies. ership in society. In 2018, zero cases of non-compliance with environmental regulations and zero fines related to environmental aspects The DNV GL Group has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption and were registered. unethical behaviour that applies to all employees, subcontractors, agents and suppliers. DNV GL’s compliance programme and For further details about DNV GL’s environmental and climate related instructions are based on the Code of Conduct for which performance, please see the sustainability section in DNV GL’s the Board is responsible. annual report. 98 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Outlook The company will work to minimize transfer of class to other classifiThere are signs of weakening trade, manufacturing, and cation societies and to win 25% of global investment. The global GDP outlook has been adjusted down, and trade tensions between the world’s largest economies may new-building contracts measured in harm the economic prospects of both. There is a risk of slower gross tonnes. economic growth in the US and in China. The political uncertainty in Europe could slow down the global economy further. The Board detects however, modest signs of growth in both There is an overall trend of continued decarbonization of the seaborne trade and energy demand and thereby a more stable world’s energy systems which should drive demand for the development in the company’s revenue overall. The effects of the company’s renewables, power grid and energy efficiency services. cost restructuring initiatives being implemented over the past The energy transition, with planned grid integration and increased three years across all business areas and the shared services and transition to renewable energy sources, is expected to continue in support organization, have started to take effect and put DNV GL many countries. The market for high-power laboratory testing in a better position to face the prevailing market conditions. changed significantly in 2018, and DNV GL revenue for these services Despite the cost cuts made – DNV GL has been able to invest declined. We expect it will take some time to recover this position. in and build each of the three cornerstones of its strategy. The extraordinary growth in 2018 for DNV GL management system A modest increase in seaborne trade, coupled with a higher level certification services, driven by the implementation of new ISO of scrapping, is expected to continue in 2019. The growth in the standards, will not repeat itself in 2019. On the other hand, the global ship newbuilding market slowed down in Q4-2018 after a demand for supply chain assurance and product assurance is strong first half of the year. Market fundamentals give signs of expected to continue. DNV GL services in the food and beverage, cautious optimism for 2019, but uncertainties around the 2020 healthcare and automotive & aerospace sectors are very attractive global sulphur cap requirements, global trade, protectionism, and will continue to grow. Brexit and political risks in major economies are causing many investors to be cautious. Competition continues to be fierce, but Digital Solutions completed its first year of operation in 2018. The DNV GL has managed to increase its market share in the growing portfolio of software products will continue to be renewed from a newbuilding market. The company will work to minimize transfer traditional software-on-premise platform to a software-as-a-service of class to other classification societies and to win 25% of global platform. The investment in the Veracity platform continues. The new-building contracts measured in gross tonnes. focus is to build an ecosystem for the ocean industries as well as the industries prioritized by the other four Business Areas. In 2019, In the oil and gas market, oil prices are still volatile. The price Veracity will focus on adding more datasets, encouraging more passed USD 80 per barrel for a period in early October but developers to build applications and increasing the number of remains uncertain with a forecast of USD 60-90 per barrel towards registered users to amplify the beneficial network effects of scale. 2021. Oil companies are slowly increasing their investment levels, but price pressures remain strong as there is still over capacity in The Board of Directors believes that DNV GL’s performance in parts of the service and equipment value chain. The offshore 2018, against a backdrop of difficult markets, demonstrates that upstream oil and gas developments are expected to be less the company has responded well to the challenges posed capital intensive and with shorter payback time. The existing throughout the year. The company will continue to develop a broad extensive infrastructure across the value chain, including competence and resource base to provide guidance and support pipelines and refineries, will continue to demand operations to customers in a business environment where trust comes at support services. For 2019, we therefore expect to see a modest a premium and where the need for technical expertise and risk revenue growth for DNV GL’s oil and gas activities. management will be in increasing demand. HØVIK, 3 APRIL 2019 LEIF-ARNE LANGØY MORTEN ULSTEIN LASSE KRISTOFFERSEN CLEMENS KEUER CHAIRMAN VICE-CHAIRMAN NINA IVARSEN DA WEI TIAN JON EIVIND THRANE LISELOTT KILAAS NIKOLAOS PAPANIKOS REMI ERIKSEN BIRGIT AAGAARD-SVENDSEN SILVIJA SERES OBSERVER GROUP PRESIDENT & CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 99 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ PROFILES LEIF-ARNE LANGØY (CHAIR) MORTEN ULSTEIN (VICE-CHAIR) BIRGIT AAGAARD-SVENDSEN Member of the board: Since 2010 Member of the board: Since 2011 Member of the board: Since 2017 Chair since 2011 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1953 Nationality: Danish Born: 1956 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1956 Position: Managing Director, Borgstein AS Position: Independent Board professional Position: Managing Director, LAPAS AS Education: Rolls Royce Business Leadership Education: Constructional Engineering, Education: MSc Norwegian School of Program, 2000. Training programmes at IMD, The Technical University of Denmark, 1980. Economics and Business Administration Lausanne 1990–92. The University of Trondheim, Graduate Diploma in Business Administration, The Norwegian Institute of Technology, Master Copenhagen Business School, 1985. Misc. Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Chairman of of Science in Naval Architecture and Marine executive program at IESE, Barcelona. IMD, Kværner ASA; Chairman of Sparebanken Møre; Engineering 1973–77 Lausanne. INSEAD, Paris. Vice Chairman of The Resource Group AS (TRG); Member of the Board of Farstad Shipping ASA; Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Chairman Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Chairman of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; of the Island Offshore Group of companies; Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS; Chairman of Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Vice Chairman of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Audit Committee chairman in Prosafe SE; Aker Vice Chairman of Det Norske Veritas Holding Solutions AS and West of England Shipowners AS; Member of the Board of Directors of mutual Insurance Ass; board member in Otto Norwegian Hull Club Mønsted A/S; Copenhagen Malmö Port and Reapplix A/S CLEMENS KEUER LISELOTT KILAAS DA WEI TIAN Member of the board: Since 2013 Member of the board: Since 2016 Member of the board: Since 2017 Nationality: German Born: 1959 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1959 Nationality: Chinese Born: 1972 Position: Chair of German Works Council, Position: Professional board member Position: Principal Surveyor, DNV GL DNV GL Education: MBA, IMD International; MSc in Education: Bachelor of Science (Naval ArchiEducation: Degree in Computer Science, Math. Statistics tecture), HuaZhong University of Science and University of Hamburg Technology, 1994. Master of Science (Structural Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Analysis), Harbin Engineering University, 1997 Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS; Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Orkla ASA; Norsk Hydro ASA; Folketrygdfondet; Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Peab AB; Nobina AB; Memira AB Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS 100 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 LASSE KRISTOFFERSEN NINA IVARSEN SILVIJA SERES Member of the board: Since 2017 Member of the board: Since 2016 Member of the board: Since 2017 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1972 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1962 Nationality: Norwegian (originally Hungarian and Yugoslavian) Born: 1970 Position: President and CEO, Position: Chair of VEFF and Head of Global Torvald Klaveness Group Employee Forum, DNV GL Position: Independent Investor and Board Member Education: Executive Manager Program, Education: Master of Management, Stavanger INSEAD, Paris, 2004. Senior Manager Program, University; a number of courses from other Education: Top Leadership Course at the IMD, Lausanne, 2002–2003. MSc Naval architecuniversities, incl. University of Denver, US, and a Norwegian Defence College, Oslo, 2015. MBA ture and marine engineering, NTH, 1995. PhD programme in Psychology from the Program, INSEAD, France and Singapore, 2013. University of Oslo. Digital Leadership course PhD and MA in Mathematical Sciences, Oxford Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen with INSEAD University, UK, 2001. MSc and BSc in Computer Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding Science, University of Oslo, 1996. AS;President and CEO; Various board positions Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det in daughter companies of Torvald Klaveness Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Group; Vice President / Vice Chairman of Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS; Norwegian Shipowners’ Association; Oslo Børs ASA; NRK; Academedia AB; Owner President /chair of the Norwegian Shipowners’ of Technorocks AS; President of Polyteknisk association; Board member of ICS Forening; Corporate Assembly Member of Telenor ASA; Advisory Board of Digital Norway JON EIVIND THRANE NIKOLAOS PAPANIKOS Member of the board: Since 2018 Member of the board: Since 2017 Nationality: Norwegian Born: 1961 Nationality: Greek Born: 1971 Position: Head of Group IT office, DNV GL Position: Hellenic Flag Liason Officer/key Account Manager, DNV GL Education: MSc Applied Physics, Trondheim Education: MSc in Naval Architecture and Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Marine Engineering, NTUA, 1996 Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Directorship(s) outside DNV GL: Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas; Det Norske Veritas Holding AS ANNUAL REPORT 2018 101 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The financial statements for DNV GL Group AS include income statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position, statement of cash flow, statement of changes in equity and notes for DNV GL Group AS and all companies in which DNV GL Group AS directly or indirectly has actual control. 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Key figures AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 DEFINITION OF RATIOS INCOME STATEMENT Operating revenue 19 639 19 475 20 834 23 390 21 623 Profitability EBITDA 1 972 1 342 1 352 2 649 2 551 EBITDA: Earnings before financial Depreciation 358 336 364 370 348 items, tax, depreciation, Impairment of fixed assets 552 14 4 5 amortization and impairment EBITA 1 062 993 984 2 274 2 203 EBITDA margin: Amortization 513 503 519 536 536 EBITDA x 100 / Operating revenue Impairment of goodwill EBITA: and other intangible assets 0 15 311 0 56 Earnings before financial items, tax, amortization EBIT / Operating profit 549 474 154 1 738 1 612 and impairment Net financial income (expenses) (273) (110) (18) (12) 70 EBITA margin: EBITA x 100 / Profit before tax 276 364 136 1 726 1 681 Operating revenue Profit for the year 116 61 (216) 1 014 1 007 Operating margin: Operating profit x 100 / Operating revenue BALANCE SHEET Pre-tax profit margin: Profit before tax x 100 / Non-current assets 17 155 16 631 15 469 16 575 15 447 Operating revenue Current assets 10 992 12 112 11 533 13 705 12 930 Net profit margin: Profit (loss) for the year Total assets 28 147 28 743 27 002 30 279 28 377 x 100 / Operating revenue Cash flow Equity 15 951 18 810 17 509 18 850 16 496 Non-current liabilities 5 423 4 010 3 798 4 046 4 939 Net cash flow: Net change in liquidity Current liabilities 6 773 5 924 5 695 7 383 6 942 from cash flow statement Liquidity: Cash and bank deposits CASH FLOW ITEMS Net cash flow from operations 1 091 656 662 2 214 1 658 Leverage Net cash flow from investments (425) (669) (682) (1 099) (1 770) Equity ratio: Net cash flow from financing activities (1 698) 45 (607) (908) 169 Equity x 100 / Total assets Net cash flow (1 032) 32 (628) 207 57 Liquidity 2 631 3 660 3 628 4 193 3 978 FINANCIAL RATIOS PROFITABILITY EBITDA margin 10.0% 6.9% 6.5% 11.3% 11.8% EBITA margin 5.4% 5.1% 4.7% 9.7% 10.2% EBIT / Operating margin 2.8% 2.4% 0.7% 7.4% 7.5% Pre-tax profit margin 1.4% 1.9% 0.7% 7.4% 7.8% Net profit margin 0.6 % 0.3% -1.0% 4.3% 4.7% LEVERAGE Equity ratio 56.7% 65.4% 64.8% 62.3% 58.1% NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 12 101 12 715 13 550 14 954 15 712 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 103 Income statement DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2018 2017 NOTE 2018 2017 OPERATING REVENUE 26.2 25.4 Operating revenue 4 19 638.5 19 474.9 OPERATING EXPENSES 0.0 0.0 Payroll expenses 5,7,8 11 223.9 11 678.3 29.4 32.6 Other operating expenses 6,7 6 442.7 6 454.4 (3.2) (7.2) EBITDA 1 971.9 1 342.3 0.0 0.0 Depreciation and amortization 12,14 871.3 839.1 0.0 0.0 Impairment 12,13,14 552.0 29.3 (3.2) (7.2) Operating profit (loss) 548.7 474.0 FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES 0.0 0.0 Loss from associates 15 (3.2) (1.1) 2 028.6 372.1 Other financial income 8,9 42.5 39.1 (147.4) (26.1) Financial expenses 8,9 (312.1) (147.7) 1 881.2 346.0 Net financial income (expenses) (272.8) (109.8) 1 877.9 338.8 Profit before taxes 275.9 364.2 27.6 (69.7) Tax expense 11 (159.9) (302.7) 1 905.5 269.1 Profit for the year 116.0 61.5 Profit for the period attributable to: Non-controlling interest 12.9 11.7 Equity holders of the parent 103.1 49.8 Total 116.0 61.5 104 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Statement of comprehensive income DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2018 2017 NOTE 2018 2017 1 905.5 269.1 Profit for the year 116.0 61.5 Other comprehensive income not to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans (21.1) 423.6 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: Currency translation differences / Translation differences foreign operations 133.4 885.1 Share of other comprehensive income from associates 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 112.9 1 308.8 1 905.5 269.1 Total comprehensive income for the period 228.9 1 370.2 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Non-controlling interest 12.9 11.7 Equity holders of the parent 216.0 1 358.5 Total 228.9 1 370.2 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 105 Statement of financial position ASSETS DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31. DEC 18 31. DEC 17 NOTE 31. DEC 18 31. DEC 17 NON-CURRENT ASSETS INTANGIBLE ASSETS 17.7 0.0 Deferred tax assets 11 1 198.5 1 119.7 0.0 0.0 Goodwill 12,13 8 781.2 8 716.6 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets 12 2 852.2 3 006.2 17.7 0.0 Total intangible assets 12 831.9 12 842.6 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS 0.0 0.0 Land, buildings and other property 2 142.7 965.4 0.0 0.0 Office equipment, fixtures and fittings 1 034.3 1 578.9 0.0 0.0 Total tangible fixed assets 14 3 176.9 2 544.3 NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL ASSETS 11 813.4 11 805.3 Investments in subsidiaries 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investments in associates 15 183.4 188.3 0.6 0.5 Equity instruments 27.4 27.8 411.0 411.0 Other investments 8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net pension asset 8 539.7 626.7 3 760.7 2 056.7 Loan to subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other long-term receivables 18 395.9 401.6 15 985.6 14 273.5 Total non-current financial assets 1 146.4 1 244.5 16 003.4 14 273.5 Total non-current assets 17 155.1 16 631.4 CURRENT ASSETS DEBTORS 0.0 0.0 Trade debtors 17 4 426.0 4 313.7 0.0 0.0 Contract assets 3 078.1 3 149.5 74.1 40.7 Other receivables group companies 16.5 11.0 1.0 13.9 Other debtors 840.8 977.9 75.1 54.6 Total debtors 8 361.5 8 452.1 1 133.2 1 474.4 Cash and bank deposits 20 2 630.6 3 659.7 1 208.3 1 529.0 Total current assets 10 992.0 12 111.9 17 211.7 15 802.5 TOTAL ASSETS 28 147.2 28 743.2 106 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Statement of financial position EQUITY AND LIABILITIES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31. DEC 18 31. DEC 17 NOTE 31. DEC 18 31. DEC 17 EQUITY PAID-IN CAPITAL 100.0 100.0 Share capital 23 100.0 100.0 9 323.5 9 323.5 Share premium 9 323.5 9 323.5 RETAINED EARNINGS 2 283.9 4 345.2 Other equity 6 475.7 9 347.0 0.0 0.0 Non-controlling interest 51.7 39.7 11 707.4 13 768.7 Total equity 15 950.9 18 810.1 LIABILITIES NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 21 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension liabilities 8 2 479.3 2 560.0 0.0 0.6 Deferred tax liabilities 11 412.5 601.3 2 670.8 610.3 Loan from group companies 22 2 100.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current provisions 19 138.5 392.5 0.0 0.0 Other non-current liabilities 292.5 455.8 2 670.8 611.0 Total non-current liabilities 5 422.8 4 009.6 CURRENT LIABILITIES 0.0 0.0 Overdrafts 30.7 44.7 0.0 0.0 Trade creditors 544.7 509.0 0.3 42.5 Taxes payable 11 357.4 413.0 0.0 0.0 Public duties payable 366.7 381.8 2 761.0 1 379.9 Current liabilities group companies 22 600.3 5.8 0.0 0.0 Current provisions 19 264.6 480.7 72.2 0.5 Other current liabilities 16 4 609.1 4 088.5 2 833.4 1 422.9 Total current liabilities 6 773.5 5 923.5 5 504.3 2 033.8 Total liabilities 12 196.3 9 933.1 17 211.7 15 802.5 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 28 147.2 28 743.2 HØVIK, 3 APRIL 2019 LEIF-ARNE LANGØY MORTEN ULSTEIN BIRGIT AAGAARDJON EIVIND THRANE NINA IVARSEN CLEMENS KEUER CHAIRMAN VICE CHAIRMAN SVENDSEN REMI ERIKSEN LISELOTT KILAAS LASSE KRISTOFFERSEN NIKOLAOS PAPANIKOS SILVIJA SERES DA WEI TIAN GROUP PRESIDENT & CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 107 Statement of cash flow DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2018 2017 NOTE 2018 2017 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS 1 877.9 338.8 Profit before tax 275.9 364.2 0.0 0.0 Gain on disposal of tangible fixed assets 14 (202.8) (17.5) 0.0 0.0 Loss (gain) on divestments 23.7 (1.6) 0.0 0.0 Loss (gain) from change of defined benefit pension plans 8 11.2 (20.3) 0.0 0.0 Depreciation, amortization and impairment 14 1 423.2 868.3 (42.5) 0.0 Tax payable 11 (477.8) (490.6) Change in work in progress, trade debtors 0.0 0.0 and trade creditors 57.7 (369.8) 64.4 (8.2) Change in accruals, provisions and other (19.8) 323.3 1 899.8 330.6 Net cash flow from operations 1 091.4 656.0 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENTS 0.0 0.0 Acquisitions 3 (44.6) (24.0) 0.0 0.0 Investments in tangible fixed assets 14 (306.4) (345.8) 0.0 0.0 Investments in intangible assets 12 (358.9) (370.7) 0.0 0.0 Sale of tangible fixed assets (sales value) 287.9 60.3 0.0 0.0 Change in other investments (3.4) 11.3 0.0 0.0 Net cash flow from investments (425.4) (669 .0) CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 327.5 (236.8) Change in loan from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in overdraft (14.1) 44.7 Change in net position towards participants (585.0) 870.1 in the cash pool system 215.8 0.0 (1 900.0) 0.0 Dividend paid (1 900.0) 0.0 (83.6) (183.8) Group contribution (paid)/received 0.0 0.0 (2 241.1) 449.5 Net cash flow from financing activities (1 698.3) 44.7 (341.3) 780.1 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and bank deposits (1 032.3) 31.7 1 474.4 694.3 Liquidity at beginning of period 3 659.7 3 628.0 0.0 0.0 Cash in acquired companies 3.1 0.0 1 133.2 1 474.4 Liquidity at end of period 2 630.6 3 659.7 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Statement of changes in equity CHANGES IN EQUITY IN DNV GL GROUP AS SHARE SHARE OTHER AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION CAPITAL PREMIUM EQUITY TOTAL Equity at 1 January 2017 100.0 9 323.5 4 078.8 13 502.3 Profit for the period 269.1 269.1 Group contribution (2.7) (2.7) Equity at 31 December 2017 100.0 9 323.5 4 345.2 13 768.7 Profit for the period 1 905.5 1 905.1 Group contribution 33.2 33.2 Dividend declared (4 000.0) (4 000.0) Equity at 31 December 2018 100.0 9 323.5 2 283.9 11 707.4 CHANGES IN EQUITY IN DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED CURRENCY NONSHARE SHARE OTHER TRANSLATION CONTROLLING AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION CAPITAL PREMIUM EQUITY DIFFERENCES INTEREST TOTAL Equity at 1 January 2017 100.0 9 323.5 5 188.6 2 862.9 33.9 17 508.9 Profit for the period 49.8 11.7 61.5 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans 423.6 423.6 Exchange differences 885.1 885.1 Adjustment of payroll tax defined benefit pension plans Norway ¹ (63.1) (63.1) Other equity changes (5.9) (5.9) Equity at 31 December 2017 100.0 9 323.5 5 599.0 3 748.0 39.7 18 810.1 Profit/(loss) for the period 103.1 12.9 116.0 Dividend declared (4 000.0) (4 000.0) Group contribution (161.3) (161.3) Merger difference merger Det Norsk Veritas Eiendom AS 1 082.2 1 082.2 Actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit pension plans (21.1) (21.1) Exchange differences 133.4 133.4 Share of other comprehensive income from associates 0.6 0.6 Other equity changes (8.3) (0.8) (9.2) Equity at 31 December 2018 100.0 9 323.5 2 594.3 3 881.4 51.7 15 950.9 1) In previous years, the IAS 19 actuarial calculations have not shown a split between the pension liabilities for the Norwegian funded and unfunded pension plans. Thus, payroll taxes have historically been reflected on the total net pension liabilities for these plans. For 2017, the IAS 19 actuarial calculations have been made for the funded and the unfunded pension liabilities separately resulting in an increase of payroll tax of NOK 63.1 million as per 1 January 2017. The amount has been adjusted to other equity in 2017. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 109 NOTES 01 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS FOR PREPARATION. The financial statements are prepared in The fair values of the investments are tested annually based on external accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act § 3-9 and Regulations on and/or internal indicators implying revaluation. If estimated fair value is Simplified IFRS as enacted by the Ministry of Finance 3 November 2014. less than the carrying amount, the investments are impaired in the Balance In all material aspects, Norwegian Simplified IFRS requires that the IFRS sheet statement and the corresponding cost is recognized in the income recognition and measurement criteria (as adopted by the European Union) statement. Impairment losses recognized in prior periods are reversed are complied with, but disclosure and presentation requirements (the if the basis for the impaired value no longer exists or have decreased. notes) follow the Norwegian Accounting Act and Norwegian Generally Accepted Accounting Standards. In the accounts of the parent company, dividends, group contributions and other distributions are recognized in the same year as they are The financial statements are presented in Norwegian Kroner (NOK) and recognized in the financial statement of the subsidiary according to all values are rounded to the nearest million (NOK million), except when the Norwegian Regulation of simplified IFRS § 3-1. If dividends / group otherwise indicated. contribution exceed withheld profits after acquisition, the excess amount represents repayment of invested capital, and the distribution CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES. The consolidated statements include the will be deducted from the recorded value of the acquisition in the parent company DNV GL Group AS and all companies in which the parent Balance sheet statement for the parent company. company directly or indirectly has controlling interest. The group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable return DIVIDEND TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY. Dividends from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns declared to shareholders are recognized as a liability at the end of the through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from reporting period according to the Norwegian Regulation of simplified the date on which control is transferred to the group and deconsolidated IFRS § 3-1. from the date that control ceases. The group accounts show the Group’s consolidated Income statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income, INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES. An associate Balance Sheet, Statement of Changes in Equity and Statement of Cash is an entity in which the Group has a significant influence but does not Flow as a single economic entity. Subsidiaries follow the same accounting control the management of its financial and operating policy decisions principles as the parent company. All intra group assets and liabilities, (normally when the Group owns 20%-50% of the company). equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between Group entities are eliminated in the consolidated accounts. A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the basis joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of going concern. of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND GOODWILL. Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquiThe considerations made in determining significant influence or joint control, sition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries. measured at the acquisition date at fair value. Acquisition-related costs are expensed in Income statement as incurred. Investments in associated companies and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at their fair value at the acquisition date. Goodwill is recognized as the Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture residual value between fair value of the consideration transferred and is initially recognized at cost. The carrying amount of the investment is the fair value of the identifiable net assets. adjusted to recognize changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumuto the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying amount of lated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill the investment and is not tested for impairment individually. acquired in a business combination is from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit The income statement reflects the Group’s share of profits after tax of the from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities associate or joint venture. Any change in OCI of those investees is presented of the acquire are assigned to those units. as part of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recognized directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the The allocation of costs in a business combination is changed if new Group recognizes its share of any changes, when applicable, in the information on the fair value becomes available and is applicable on statement of changes in equity. Unrealized gains and losses resulting the date when control is assumed. The allocation may be altered within from transactions between the Group and the associate or joint venture one year from acquisition date. are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or joint venture. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its SUBSIDIARIES. Investments in subsidiaries are recognized at cost in the interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the accounts of the parent company. Investments carried at cost are measured group does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred legal or at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate. 110 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 The aggregate of the Group’s share of profits (or losses) of an associate Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount and a joint venture is shown in the income statement as financial items. expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The current and deferred income tax is calculated based on tax rates The financial statements of the associate or joint venture are prepared (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted, in the for the same reporting period as the Group. countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income at The recognized value of the associate or joint venture in the Statement the end of the reporting period. Management periodically evaluates of Financial Position is tested for impairment annually or more frequently positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which when deemed necessary. applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate. NON-CONTROLLING INTEREST. The non-controlling interest in the Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences between the consolidated financial statements, represent the minority’s share of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and the corresponding tax carrying amount of the equity in entities with minority shareholders. bases as well as on tax losses carried forward at the reporting date. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for all taxable temporary CLASSIFICATION AND VALUATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES. differences. Deferred tax assets for temporary differences and tax loss The Group presents assets and liabilities in statement of financial position carry forwards are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future based on current/non-current classification. An asset is current when it is: taxable income will be available at the level of the relevant tax authority Expected to be realized or intended to be sold or consumed in for utilization. Tax increasing and tax reducing temporary differences normal operating cycle expected to reverse in the same period are offset and calculated on Held primarily for the purpose of trading a net basis as far as this relate to the same taxable entity and the same Expected to be realized within twelve months after the reporting period taxation authority. or Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reportused to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting ing date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that period sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred All other assets are classified as non-current. tax asset to be utilized. Unrecognized deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognized to the extent that it has become Current and non-current liabilities are classified correspondingly. probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets be recovered. and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are Current assets are valued at the lower of cost and net realizable value. expected to apply in the year when the asset is realized or the liability Short-term debt is recognized at fair value and subsequently measured is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or at amortized cost. Transaction cost on short-term borrowings are usually substantively enacted at the reporting date. minor, and the value of short-term debt at amortized cost is therefore normally identical with face value. FOREIGN CURRENCIES. The Group’s consolidated financial statements Fixed assets are valued at cost. However, if a decline in value is expected are presented in Norwegian Kroner (NOK), which is also the parent not to be temporary, fixed assets are impaired to the recoverable amount. company’s functional currency. The functional currency of an entity is Fixed assets with a limited useful economic life are depreciated in the currency of the economic environment in which the company primarily accordance with a linear depreciation plan. operates. For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured REVENUE RECOGNITION. Revenue is recognized when control of a using that functional currency. product or service is transferred to the customer. For sale of services, the revenue is recognized over time by applying percentage of completion Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Group’s method. Stage of completion is measured by reference to actual expenses entities at their respective functional currency spot rates at the date the incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated expenses for each transaction first qualifies for recognition. Monetary assets and liabilities contract. When the contract outcome cannot be measured reliably, revenue denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional is recognized only to the extent that the expenses incurred are recoverable. currency spot rates of exchange at the reporting date. Differences A contract asset is recognized for all work performed, not yet invoiced. arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognized in the Income statement. Non-monetary items that are measured in When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the revenue, the expected loss is recognized as an expense immediately. exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Revenue from sale of software licenses are recognized at a point of time. For software maintenance services delivered in the maintenance period, Forward exchange contracts are included at market value at the revenue is recognized over time based on the stage of completion of reporting date. the contract. On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations, includDEBTORS. Trade receivables and other current receivables are recorded ing goodwill and fair value adjustments are translated into NOK at the in the balance sheet initially at fair value and subsequently measured at rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date. The Income stateamortized cost less provision for impairment. The group applies the IFRS ments are translated at the average exchange rate for the financial year. 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a Exchange rate differences arising are recognized in other comprehensive lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables and contract income (OCI). On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of assets. DNV GL Group use a provision matrix as a practical expedient to OCI relating to that particular foreign operation is recognized in the calculate the expected credit losses on trade receivables. The provision Income statement. matrix represents the group’s expected credit risk. Impairment of trade receivables are recognized in the income statement. Realized and unrealized currency effects not reflected in OCI are included on a net basis in either other financial income or other TAXES. Income tax expense comprises both current tax and deferred financial expenses. tax, including effects of changes in tax rates. Current and deferred tax is recognized in income statement, except to the extent that they relate to items recognized in equity or other comprehensive income, of which the tax is also recognized in equity or other comprehensive income. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 111 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT. Property, plant and equipment An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generare stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated ating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. impairment losses. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis The recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless over the expected useful life of the assets. The estimated useful life, the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent residual values and depreciation method are reviewed, and adjusted if of those from other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. Periodic maintenance amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset costs are capitalized and depreciated over the expected maintenance is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. period. Other repair and maintenance costs are recognized in the Income statement as incurred. Improvement and upgrading are assigned to the In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted purchase cost/ carrying amount and depreciated along with the asset. to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal the asset. In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent market or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be continued use of the asset. Any gains or losses is determined as the identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of are corroborated by valuation multiples or other available fair value the asset and is recognized in profit or loss. indicators. LEASES. Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. forecast calculations, which are prepared separately for each of the Operating lease payments are recognized as an operating expense in Group’s CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated. These the Income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of lease. budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years. For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied BORROWING COSTS. Borrowing costs are recognized in the Income to project future cash flows after the fifth year. statement in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reportconsist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection ing date to determine whether there is an indication that previously with the borrowing of funds. recognized impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased. If such indication exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or CGU’s INTANGIBLE ASSETS. Intangible assets acquired separately are measured recoverable amount. A previously recognized impairment loss is on initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition. determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost loss was recognized. The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount less any accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. of the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the Except for capitalized development costs, all other internally generated carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, intangibles are reflected in the Income statement in the period in which had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. the expenditure is incurred. Such reversal is recognized in the Income statement. The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as part of the Group’s annual indefinite. plan process and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over the useful economic may be impaired. life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable intangible asset may be impaired. The amortization period for an intangible amount of each CGU to which the goodwill relates. When the recoverasset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each able amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment reporting period. loss is recognized. Impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are reversed in future periods. tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine annually at the CGU level, as appropriate, and when circumstances whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. CASH AND BANK DEPOSITS. Cash and bank deposits in the Balance RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS. Research costs are expensed sheet comprise petty cash and cash at bank and short-term deposits as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project are with a maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insigrecognized as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate: nificant risk of changes in value. Cash and bank deposits are initially The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that and subsequently measured at fair value. the asset will be available for use or sale Its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell PROVISIONS. Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present the asset obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable How the asset will generate future economic benefits (more likely than not) that the Group will be required to settle the obligation The availability of resources to complete the asset and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase accumulated impairment losses. Amortization of the asset begins when in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized as a financial development is complete and the asset is available for use. The asset is expense. amortized over the period of expected future benefit. During the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment annually. RESTRUCTURING PROVISIONS. Restructuring provisions are recognized only when the Group had a constructive obligation, which is when IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS. The Group assesses, at a detailed formal plan identifies the business or part of the business each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be concerned, the location and number of employees affected, a detailed impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for estimate of the associated costs, and an appropriate timeline, and the an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. employees affected have been notified of the plan’s main features. 112 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ONEROUS LEASE. Provision for onerous lease contracts represents occur. Gains or losses linked to changes or terminations of pension the present value of the future lease payments that the Group is presplans are also recognized in the statement of income when they arise. ently obligated to make under non-cancellable onerous operating Net interest on the net defined benefit/ assets is presented as part lease contracts, less revenue expected to be earned on the onerous of financial items. lease, including estimated future sub-lease revenue, where applicable. The estimate may vary as a result of changes in the utilisation of the Service costs comprising current service costs, past-service costs, leased premises and sub-lease arrangements where applicable. gains and losses on curtailments and non-routine settlements is presented as part of payroll expenses. POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS. The group operates various postemployment schemes, including both defined benefit and defined USE OF ESTIMATES. The preparation of the Group’s consolidated contribution pension plans. financial statements in accordance with simplified IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays the carrying amount of assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting fixed contribution into a separate entity (a fund/insurance company) and period that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions. and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and The pension cost related to the defined contribution plans is equal to the other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may contributions to the employee’s pension savings in the accounting period. differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions Multi-employer plans are accounted for as defined contribution plans. are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Update of accounting estimates are A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution recognized in the period of which the estimate is updated, if the update plan. In the defined benefit plans, the Group’s obligation is to provide affects only that period, or in the period of the update if the update the agreed benefit to current and former employees, actuarial risk and affects both current and future periods. investment risk fall in substance on the Group. The Group’s defined benefit plans are both funded and unfunded. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND ASSETS. Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the annual accounts. Significant contingent liabilities Actuarial assumptions are made to measure the pension obligation and are disclosed, with the exception of contingent liabilities that are the pension expense. Actuarial assumptions are mutually compatible unlikely to be incurred. Contingent assets (unless virtually certain) are and reflect the economic relationship between factors such as inflation, not recognized in the annual accounts but are disclosed if the inflow rate of salary increase and discount rate. The actuarial assumptions of economic benefits is probable. comprise: demographic assumptions such as mortality and employee turnover and financial assumptions such as discount rate, rate of salaryand pension benefit increase. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD. New information on the company’s financial position on the end of the reporting period which The pension obligations are measured on a discounted basis. Pension becomes known after the reporting period is recorded in the annual plan assets are valued at their fair value. The fair value of plan assets is accounts. Events after the reporting period that do not affect the deducted from the present value of the defined benefit obligation when company’s financial position on the end of the reporting period but determining the net defined benefit liability or assets. which will affect the company’s financial position in the future are disclosed if significant. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized through other comprehensive income (OCI). Actuarial gains and losses are not reclassified to profit or CASH FLOW STATEMENT. The cash flow statement is presented loss in subsequent periods. using the indirect method. Cash and cash equivalents includes cash, Changes to existing defined benefit plans that will lead to changes in bank deposits and other short-term, highly liquid financial assets pension obligation are recognized in the statement of income as they with maturities of three months or less. 02 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED CONSISTS OF THE PARENT COMPANY DNV GL GROUP AS AND THE FOLLOWING SUBSIDIARIES: SHARE CAPITAL AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION BUSINESS OFFICE OWNERSHIP BOOK VALUE IN 1000 LOCAL CURR.1 DNV GL AS Bærum, Norway NOK 5 000 100% 9 567.5 DNV GL Business Assurance Group AS Bærum, Norway NOK 1 033 100% 1.1 DNV GL Netherlands B.V. Arnhem, The Netherlands EUR 9 015 100% 2 236.7 Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS Bærum, Norway NOK 8 129 100% 8.1 Total investment in subsidiaries 11 813.4 1 incl. share premium 209 legal entities are consolidated in DNV GL Group’s financial statements at 31 December 2018 of which 9 entities has non-controlling interest. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 113 03 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND SALE OF OPERATIONS SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE 2018 With retroactive effect from 1 January 2018, the shares in the real Certification Body and EU Notified Body. By having full ownership estate company Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS was transferred of the company, DNV GL secures a strong business foundation from Det Norske Veritas Holding AS to DNV GL Group AS through with single leadership, enabling it to create a more competitive a combined demerger-merger transaction. Det Norske Veritas and agile organization. Presafe is fully consolidated from 1 June Eiendom AS has consequently been consolidated into DNV GL Group 2018 in the 2018 financial statements. Until 31 May 2018, Presafe in 2018. The financial statements for 2017 have not been restated. was recognized in accordance with the equity method. 1 June 2018, DNV GL acquired the remaining 50% shares of the 31 December 2018, DNV GL sold its solar testing labs to the associated company, DNV GL Presafe AS (Presafe), leading to management of DNV GL PVEL LLC. USA (PVEL). NOK 24.7 million a 100% ownership of the company. Presafe is an accredited has been recognized as a loss of sale PVEL in 2018 (note 6). ACQUISITIONS 2018 ACQUISITION EXTERNAL COST, LOCAL REVENUE INCL. PURCHASE CURRENCY IN 2018 ACCT. COMPANY / ACTIVITIES TRANSACTION DATE OWNERSHIP CURRENCY MILL MILL NOK Presafe 01/06/2018 100% NOK 25.4 44.9 The total purchase price for the shares in Presafe (total of fair value/ acquisition cost paid 1 June 2018 for 50% of Presafe and the book value of the 50% joint venture investment as per 1 June 2018) in excess of net book value of the equity, NOK 34.9 million, has been allocated to goodwill. CASH FLOW ON ACQUISITION AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 3.1 Consideration paid in cash (25.4) Net cash flow on acquisition (22.3) 114 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND SALE OF OPERATIONS SIGNIFICANT CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE 2017 28 September 2017, DNV GL acquired 100% of the shares Trondheim, Norway. The ComputIT software is used by oil and in Computational Industry Technologies AS (“ComputIT”). gas industry worldwide. For DNV GL Group, the acquisition ComputIT is a specialist independent company for Computational of ComputIT is a good strategic fit in both analytical and sales Fluid Dynamics (CFD) software and R&D with headquarter in capabilities in the oil and gas industry. ACQUISITIONS 2017 ACQUISITION EXTERNAL COST, LOCAL REVENUE INCL. PURCHASE CURRENCY IN 2017 ACCT. COMPANY / ACTIVITIES TRANSACTION DATE OWNERSHIP CURRENCY MILL MILL NOK ComputIT 28/09/2017 100% NOK 30.0 5.0 The acquisition cost in excess of net book value of the equity, NOK 31 million has been allocated to goodwill. CASH FLOW ON ACQUISITION AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Net cash acquired with the subsidiary – Consideration paid in cash (24.0) Net cash flow on acquisition (24.0) The difference between NOK 30 million acquisition cost and NOK 24 million consideration paid is consideration to be paid one year after the acquisition date. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 115 04 EXTERNAL OPERATING REVENUE DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED GEOGRAPHICAL AREA AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2018 2017 Nordic countries 5 028.6 3 967.2 Europe and Africa 6 337.9 6 945.9 Asia Pacific 4 413.9 4 544.6 North and South America 3 858.1 4 017.2 Total operating revenue 19 638.5 19 474.9 BUSINESS AREA AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Maritime 6 701.7 7 021.2 Oil & Gas 4 454.7 4 593.7 Energy 3 620.2 3 659.9 Business Assurance 3 645.4 3 278.4 Digital Solutions 911.9 869.1 Real Estate 205.5 0.0 Other 99.2 52.6 Total operating revenue 19 638.5 19 474.9 For management purposes, the Group is organized into business Operating revenue in DNV GL Group AS of NOK 26.2 million areas based on the industries in which the Group operates. (NOK 25.4 million in 2017) mainly consist of global liability DNV GL is structured into five business areas; Maritime, Oil & Gas, insurance expenses charged to subsidiaries. Energy, Business Assurance and Digital Solutions and one independent business unit, DNV Real Estate. 05 PAYROLL EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2018 2017 Salaries 8 496.2 9 040.2 Bonus expenses 400.0 214.0 Payroll tax 958.7 1 101.7 Pension costs 779.9 879.8 Effect of pension plan changes / curtailment effects 11.2 (20.3) Other contributions 578.0 462.9 Total payroll expenses 11 223.9 11 678.3 Full time equivalent 11 877 12 716 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 06 OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2018 2017 Travel expenses (refundable and non-refundable) 1 067.1 1 111.8 External hired assistance 1 764.8 1 521.6 IT and communication expenses 586.8 748.5 Rent and real estate expenses 878.5 983.9 Losses on accounts receivables 75.5 51.5 Loss on sale DNV GL PVEL LLC. USA 24.7 0.0 Expenses Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS (DNV Eiendom AS merged into DNV GL Group in 2018) 0.0 218.4 Other expenses (refundable and non-refundable) 2 045.4 1 818.6 Total other operating expenses 6 442.7 6 454.4 The Group recognized expenses of NOK 569.2 million in relation to operating leases in 2018. Operating lease relates mainly to office rent, with lease terms between 1–15 years and company cars, with lease terms between 1–5 years. MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS RELATING TO OPERATING LEASE 2018 20171 Within one year 420.9 711.4 After one year but not more than five years 1 288.4 2 385.3 More than five years 551.2 2 069.4 Total 2 260.5 5 166.1 1 Due to more accurate information obtained, the figures for 2017 have been updated. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 117 07 REMUNERATION AND LOANS TO GROUP CEO, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETC. REMUNERATION GUIDELINES FOR THE GROUP CEO AND THE mum value at 50% of base salary. This is aligned with the guidelines MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The remuneration guidefor all companies organised as ASAs in Norway. The pay-outs are lines for the members of the Executive Committee (EC) including forfeited if the executive resigns. the Group CEO support DNV GL’s vision of being a global organization with a focus on sustainability and a long-term perspective. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION DURING 2018. Ahead of the salary The main compensation elements are centred around a marketreview process taking effect as of 01 April every year, the senior based salary, a bonus/profit-share scheme and selected common executive compensation is compared to external benchmarks employee benefits in line with the local markets. using data provided by Korn Ferry or similar service providers. Data are collected on a European basis in addition to home The Group CEO and Executive Committee participate in the pension country. Information publicly accessible from other comparable and insurance schemes applicable in the country where their companies is also reviewed in this process. employment contracts are signed (currently Italy, Netherlands and Norway). All members of the Executive Committee have standard Remi Eriksen, the Group CEO, is not part of the general bonus/ employment contracts and terms and conditions regarding notice profit-share programme, but has a discretionary bonus deterperiod and severance pay, with exception of the Group CEO, mined on an annual basis by the Board of Directors. The bonus who has an extended notice period of 6 instead of 3 months. calculation is reviewed against the principles for the other EC members as well as some specific individual goals for the Group DNV GL has a bonus/profit-share scheme in place for employees CEO. The bonus should not exceed 50% of annual base salary. in higher employment grades. The scheme is based on a combiBonus pay-out for the Group CEO for 2018 was NOK 500.000. nation of the DNV GL results at Group and Business Areas levels; achievement of financial targets (EBITA) at Group level (60%), and Compensation package for Remi Eriksen consist of: Annual base achievement of financial targets (EBITA) at Business Area level (40%). salary of NOK 5 750 thousand and a car allowance of NOK 250 Target bonus and cap varies by grade and performance assessment thousand. Eriksen has a right to retire at 65 years. If terminated and is tailored to the two highest levels of management. Target from DNV GL while in the position as Group CEO, Eriksen is bonus for the Executive Committee is 25% of base salary with maxientitled to 12 months of base salary beyond notice period. REMUNERATIONS LOANS AT 31 DEC. 2018 REMUNERATIONS AND LOANS TO THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE FOR 2018 SALARY OTHER BONUS PENSION LOAN INTEREST REPAYMENT SECURITY AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND BENEFITS COST AMOUNT RATE PERIOD Remi Eriksen 5 828 9052 500 378 Thomas Vogth-Eriksen 2 883 196 268 3 331 964 0.73% Apr. 2024 Mortgage Gro Gotteberg 1 379 342 151 3 108 3,4 Luca Crisciotti 2 796 97 377 748 5 Elisabeth Tørstad 2 818 274 467 3 322 802 0.73% May 20356 Mortgage Ditlev Engel 3 447 524 319 3 190 Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen 2 785 102 265 3,4 284 3 Liv Hovem 2 022 254 166 239 Klas Bendrik¹ 900 324 0 36 Ulrike Haugen 1 367 164 37 105 1 Member of the Executive Committee from 1 September 2018, remuneration disclosed for September to December. 2 Includes a one time anniversary award related to 25 years in the company 3 Includes payment of bonus bank settlement from previous years 4 Bonus paid net of tax due to International Assignment status 5 Statutory payments to the Italian social security institute INPS 6 The loan was fully repaid 31 January 2019 118 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 REMUNERATION AND LOANS TO GROUP CEO, EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETC. REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATION REMUNERATIONS TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS PAID OUT IN 2018 BOARD OF BOARD BOARD DIRECTORS AUDIT COMPENSATION AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Leif-Arne Langøy 433 44 Morten Ulstein 340 13 28 Liv Aune Hagen ¹ 167 Nina Ivarsen 289 Clemens Keuer 289 Liselott Kilaas 289 64 Lasse Kristoffersen 289 38 Nikolaos Papanikos 289 Silvija Seres 289 28 Birgit Aagaard-Svendsen 289 80 Da Wei Tian 289 Jon Eivind Thrane ² 122 1 Member of the Board of Directors until 31 July 2018 2 Member of the Board of Directors from 1 August 2018 FEES TO THE AUDITORS FOR 2018 GROUP AUDITOR GROUP AUDITOR OTHER NORWEGIAN NON-NORWEGIAN OTHER AMOUNTS IN NOK THOUSAND DNV GL GROUP AS ENTITIES ENTITIES AUDITORS TOTAL Statutory audit 3 092 3 112 25 266 936 32 405 Tax consulting services 828 601 1 429 Other audit related services 161 299 6 466 Non-audit services 25 25 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 119 08 PENSION COSTS, PLAN ASSETS AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION LIABILITIES DNV GL Group AS has both defined contribution pension plans and Of the other defined benefit pension plans, the major UK plans defined benefit pension plans. 10 185 employees are covered by the (closed in 2017) are financed through a separate pension fund, defined contribution pension plans while 3 210 persons (employees while the other plans are mainly financed through independent and pensioneers) are covered by defined benefit pension plans. administrative funds/insurance companies. The pension cost and All defined benefit pension plans are closed for new entrants, the pension liabilities as included in the accounts and in this note, however active members still build up their pension rights under is based on the presented actuarial assumptions, together with these plans. End of service benefit schemes in some countries outside remuneration of the employee and length of service. Norway (mainly Middle East and Asian countries with statutory defined benefit plan requirements) are still open for new entrants. Contribution to the Group’s pension plans are made in accordance These end of service benefit schemes are required by law and fully with common actuarial methods and statutory regulations in the settled at retirement / resignation. country where the pension plan is administered. Total pension costs for 2018 are NOK 791.1 million of which NOK 213.8 million are The structure of the defined benefit pension plans depends on the related to the defined benefit pension plans and NOK 577.3 million legal, tax and economic conditions in the respective country, and is are related to the defined contribution pension plans and end of usually based on length of service and remuneration of the employee. service benefit schemes. The defined benefit pension plans are covered through separate pension funds, through arrangements with independent insurance The Norwegian companies in the Group are subject to the Norwegian companies or through unfunded plans. Pension Act. The companies’ pension schemes fulfil the requirements of the law. Norwegian employees are covered either by the Norwegian The defined benefit pension plans in Norway are financed through defined contribution pension plan (mainly employees employed a separate pension fund. For defined benefit pension plans in after 1 January 2005), or the defined benefit pension plan organized Germany, the major plans are unfunded with the gross liability in one Norwegian pension fund (employees employed before reflected as a pension liability, however there are also pension plans 1 January 2005) and in one unfunded pension plan (employees in Germany financed through independent insurance companies. employed before 1 January 2005). The pension assets in the Norwegian pension fund are invested as follows: MARKET VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS IN NORWAY AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 Buildings and property 181.0 181.0 Mutual equity funds and hedge funds 3 622.2 3 567.1 Norwegian bonds and bond funds 1 567.2 1 539.1 Non-Norwegian bonds and bond funds 98.8 100.5 Bank accounts, other assets and liabilities 784.3 1 039.7 Total market value of plan assets Norway (DNV GL Pension fund) 6 253.5 6 427.4 Actual return / (loss) on plan assets (64.7) 674.4 Capital contributed from DNV GL Group AS to the Norwegian Pension Fund, NOK 411 million, is reflected as other investments in the balance sheet for DNV GL Group AS. 120 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 PENSION COSTS, PLAN ASSETS AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION FUNDED NORWEGIAN DEFINED GERMAN DEFINED OTHER DEFINED PENSION COST – BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEMES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Net present value of this year’s pension contribution 137.1 138.8 40.4 40.1 5.7 30.4 Effect of plan changes/curtailments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 11.2 (20.3) Payroll tax 19.3 19.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net present value of this year’s pension contribution 156.4 158.4 40.4 40.1 16.9 10.1 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (17.8) (10.4) 42.8 41.3 (0.7) 2.9 Payroll tax (2.5) (1.5) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (20.3) (11.9) 42.8 41.3 (0.7) 2.9 FUNDED NORWEGIAN DEFINED GERMAN DEFINED OTHER DEFINED NET PENSION ASSET (LIABILITIES) BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS BENEFIT PENSION PLANS – DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEMES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 Market value of plan assets 6 253.5 6 427.4 69.9 66.1 1 881.5 2 059.9 Actuarial present value of pension liabilities (5 697.9) (5 767.7) (2 498.4) (2 559.3) (1 850.8) (2 060.7) Payroll tax (97.3) (98.8) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net pension asset (liabilities) 458.2 560.9 (2 428.5) (2 493.2) 30.7 (0.9) END OF SERVICE BENEFIT SCHEMES NORWEGIAN SCHEMES GERMAN SCHEMES OTHER SCHEMES AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 Net liability 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (171.5) (171.1) Hereof recorded in the balance sheet as: Net pension asset 458.2 560.9 0.0 0.0 81.5 65.9 Pension liabilities 0.0 0.0 (2 428.5) (2 493.2) (50.8) (66.7) Other non-current liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (171.5) (171.1) ANNUAL REPORT 2018 121 PENSION COSTS, PLAN ASSETS AND DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION The assumptions (discount rate, covered bonds) for calculation of the UK High Court ruling requiring UK pension schemes to equalise pension liabilities in Norway have been changed from 2.4% to 2.5%. male and female members’ benefits for the effect of guaranteed The changed assumptions led to reduced pension liabilities minimum pension (GMP) resulted in a NOK 11 million negative of NOK 98 million in 2018. curtailment effect in 2018. The assumptions (discount rate ) for calculation of the pension liabilities NOK 21 million net actuarial losss on defined benefit pension in Germany have been changed from 1.8% to 2.0%. The changed assumpplans have been reflected in other comprehensive income/ tions led to reduced pension liabilities of NOK 73 million in 2018. other equity in 2018. THE CALCULATIONS OF THE PENSION LIABILITIES ARE BASED ON THE NORWEGIAN SCHEMES2 GERMAN SCHEMES OTHER SCHEMES FOLLOWING ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS: 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 Discount rate1 2.50% 2.40% 2.0% 1.8% 0.5–7.0% 1.3–10.5% Projected annual salary adjustment 2.75% 2.75% 2.5% 2.5% 2.0–5.0% 2.0–9.0% Projected annual increase in pension benefit 1.75% 1.75% 1.5% 1.5% 0.5–2.9% 0.0–2.9% Projected annual increase of Norwegian government basis pension 2.25% 2.25% Expected annual return on plan assets 2.40% 2.40% 1.8% 1.8% 0.5–7.0% 1.3–10.5% 1 Covered bond rate for Norwegian schemes. 2 The pension liability calculations for the Norwegian schemes are based on K2013BE (standard best estimate mortality table). The retirement age in the group differs from country to country. from 65 to 67 years based on the year of birth of the plan members. In the most significant pension plans the ordinary retirement age is Some managers and employees are entitled to early retirement 67 years (Norway) and 65–67 years (Germany). To align with German before 67, with full pension rights earned. regulations, the major German pension plans are gradually shifting SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF PENSION CALCULATIONS. The sensitivity reporting period, while keeping all other assumptions unchanged. analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible Sensitivities decrease (increase) defined benefit obligation year-end. changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the DISCOUNT RATE FUTURE SALARY INCREASES ASSUMPTIONS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 0.5% INCREASE 0.5% DECREASE 0.5% INCREASE 0.5% DECREASE Impact on defined benefit obligation Norwegian plans 454.6 (517.3) (144.8) 180.9 Impact on defined benefit obligation German plans 175.1 (179.1) (20.8) 20.6 122 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 09 FINANCIAL INCOME AND FINANCIAL EXPENSES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2018 2017 2018 2017 2 003.2 50.4 Dividend from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Profit (loss) from investment in associates (note 15) (3.2) (1.1) 0.0 0.0 Gain from sale of avaliable for sale investments 1.0 1.6 0.0 0.0 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (note 8) (21.8) (32.3) 3.6 3.5 Other interest received 37.2 35.5 0.8 32.4 Net interest income (expense) group companies (16.9) 0.0 (20.7) (8.1) Other interest expenses (53.8) (45.3) (103.9) 271.6 Currency gains (losses) (141.8) (37.4) (1.7) (3.8) Other financial items (73.5) (30.8) 1 881.2 346.0 Net financial income (expenses) (272.8) (109.8) 10 FINANCIAL MARKET RISK The Group’s main financial market risks are liquidity risk, foreign A change in EUR exchange rate of +/1 percentage point will lead to currency risk, credit risk, interest rate risk and ension plan risk. a change in operating revenue of approximately +/NOK 46 million and a change in operating profit (EBIT) of approximately +/3 million. LIQUIDITY RISK. The Group monitors its liquidity risk on an ongoing CREDIT RISK. Receivable balances (NOK 4 571 million) are monitored basis. The liquidity forecasting considers planned investments in nonon an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to current assets, financing activities, working capital needs, as well as bad debts is limited. There are no significant concentrations of credit projected cash flows from operations. risk within the Group. With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprises cash and cash FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK. The Group has revenues and expenses in equivalents (NOK 2 631 million) and certain derivative instruments approximately 65 currencies. Of these, six currencies (EUR, USD, NOK, (NOK -72 million), the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from GBP, CNY and KRW) make up for 77% of the total revenue. In many default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the currencies the group has a natural hedge through a balance of revenue market value of these instruments. and expenses. The policy of the Group is to hedge significant project exposures and future cash flows through forward exchange contracts. INTEREST RATE RISK. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in As part of the hedging strategy, the Group has forward exchange market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s forward exchange contracts equivalent to NOK 1 221 million. The Group does not apply contracts and the multi-currency revolving credit facility. Both risks hedge accounting and realized and unrealized gains and losses are are considered to have limited effect. recognized in the income statement. Unrealized net loss at year end is NOK 71.7 million. PENSION PLAN RISK. The Group is exposed to volatility in the financial market affecting the value of the pension plan assets. The Group is A change in USD exchange rate of +/1 percentage point will lead to a also exposed to interest rate volatility effecting the pension liabilities. change in operating revenue of approximately +/NOK 32 million and In addition, inflation and real wages development will have impact a change in operating profit (EBIT) of approximately +/NOK 2 million. on the pension liabilities. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 123 11 TAX DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 2018 2017 2018 2017 Tax expense consists of: 0.3 43.3 Norwegian income tax 1.0 66.2 0.5 0.4 Income tax outside Norway 476.8 422.2 0.7 43.7 Total tax payable 477.8 488.4 (9.9) 19.2 Tax effect group contribution 48.2 0.0 (18.4) 6.8 Change in deferred tax in Norway (68.7) 36.8 0.0 0.0 Effect of changed tax rates 30.6 52.5 0.0 0.0 Change in deferred tax outside Norway (328.0) (275.0) (18.4) 6.8 Total change in deferred tax (366.1) (185.7) (27.6) 69.7 Tax expense 159.9 302.7 431.9 81.3 Tax on profit at 23% (24% in 2017) 63.5 87.4 Tax effect of: 0.0 0.0 Foreign tax exempt branches (1.0) 1.0 0.5 0.4 Non refundable foreign withholding taxes 37.2 82.0 0.0 0.0 Gain sale of shares (0.2) (0.4) (460.7) (12.0) Other permanent differences 67.6 46.7 0.8 (0.0) Effect of changed tax rates 30.6 52.5 0.0 0.0 Changes of previous years taxes (57.8) (12.4) 0.0 0.0 Tax assets not recognized current year 14.2 38.8 0.0 0.0 Differences between tax rates in Norway and abroad 5.8 7.1 (27.6) 69.7 Tax expense 159.9 302.7 Effective tax rate 58% 83% Net tax-reducing /tax-increasing temporary differences: 0.0 0.0 Non-current assets 945.8 1 345.4 0.0 0.0 Current assets (115.6) 357.5 (80.6) 3.0 Liabilities (2 355.8) (2 510.4) 0.0 0.0 Tax loss to be carried forward (1 667.6) (993.5) (80.6) 3.0 Basis for deferred tax asset/liability (3 193.1) (1 801.0) 22% 23% Tax rates applied 17%–42% 17%–42% 17.7 0.0 Deferred tax asset 1 198.5 1 119.7 0.0 0.6 Deferred tax liability (412.5) (601.3) The Group has accumulated tax-loss to be carried forward NOK 7 million deferred tax cost related to actuarial gains on defined amounting to NOK 789 million. As the future utilization of these tax benefit pension plans, has been reflected in other comprehensive losses cannot be demonstrated, the related deferred tax asset (DTA) income/ other equity, together with the related actuarial gain. of NOK 172 million, is not recognized in the balance sheet. 124 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 12 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CUSTOMER OTHER CONTRACTS INTANGIBLE AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION GOODWILL AND RELATIONS TRADEMARKS ASSETS TOTAL Acquisition cost 1 January 2017 8 381.1 2 533.2 518.3 1 891.8 13 324.5 Additions 30.5 0.0 0.2 6.0 36.7 Additions from internal developments 0.0 0.0 0.0 364.5 364.5 Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Currency translation differences 664.2 207.2 40.0 92.3 1 003.7 Total acquisition cost 31 Dec. 2017 9 075.9 2 740.4 558.5 2 354.6 14 729.4 Additions 35.3 0.0 0.0 356.1 391.4 Additions from internal developments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals (20.0) (2.9) 0.0 0.0 (22.9) Currency translation differences 49.3 16.0 3.0 7.2 75.5 Total acquisition cost 31 Dec. 2018 9 140.5 2 753.5 561.5 2 718.0 15 173.4 Accumulated amortization and impairment 1 January 2017 (357.7) (1 114.5) 0.0 (836.5) (2 308.7) Amortization 0.0 (244.1) 0.0 (259.2) (503.3) Impairment 0.0 0.0 0.0 (15.3) (15.3) Disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Currency translation differences (1.6) (107.0) 0.0 (70.7) (179.2) Total accum. amortization and impairment 31 Dec. 2017 (359.3) (1 465.5) 0.0 (1 181.8) (3 006.6) Amortization 0.0 (251.3) 0.0 (261.7) (513.0) Impairment 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals 0.0 5.6 0.0 0.0 5.6 Currency translation differences 0.0 (15.9) 0.0 (10.1) (26.0) Total accum. amortization and impairment 31 Dec. 2018 (359.3) (1 727.1) 0.0 (1 453.7) (3 540.1) Net book value 31 December 2018 8 781.2 1 026.4 561.5 1 264.3 11 633.4 31 December 2017 8 716.6 1 274.9 558.5 1 172.8 11 722.8 Useful life 1–10 years Indef. 5–10 years Other intangible assets are amortized linearly, based on evaluation of useful life. Other intangible assets mainly consist of capitalized software development costs and acquired software. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested annually for impairment (note 13). Trademarks has an indefinite useful life and are not amortized but tested for impairment annually. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 125 13 IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL Goodwill obtained through acquisitions is allocated to the Group’s The test is performed at year end. An impairment loss is recognized business areas and followed up and tested collectively for the if the estimated recoverable amount is lower than the carrying group of cash-generating units that constitute the business area. amount of the cash generating unit. The cash-generating units correspond to DNV GL’s business areas Maritime, Oil & Gas, Energy, Business Assurance and Digital Solutions. Goodwill is allocated to the business areas as follows: AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 2018 2017 Maritime 3 141.5 3 124.7 Oil & Gas 3 512.6 3 492.4 Energy 1 893.7 1 901.2 Business Assurance 185.4 150.4 Digital Solutions 47.9 47.9 Total goodwill 8 781.2 8 716.6 The Group has used value in use to determine recoverable amounts are approved by the Board of Directors and executive management. for the cash-generating units. Value in use is determined by using Budgets and long-term plans cover maximum a five year period. the discounted cash flow method. The expected cash flows are After the five years of explicit plans, the cash flows are stipulated based on the business areas’ budgets and long-term plans, which by extrapolation. COST OF LONG-TERM KEY ASSUMPTIONS PER CAPITAL (WACC) NOMINAL CASH-GENERATING UNIT – POST TAX GROWTH RATE Maritime 7.1% 1.5% Oil & Gas 7.5% 1.5% Energy 7.4% 1.5% Business Assurance 7.1% 1.5% Digital Solutions 8.0% 1.5% SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS. In connection with impairment test of None of the other cash-generating units will be in an impairment goodwill, sensitivity analysis are carried out for each individual situation unless there are material changes in the key assumptions, cash-generating unit. For Energy a decrease in EBITA-margin and these changes are considered to be outside the probable of 2.7% or an increase in WACC of 2.4% will leade to impairment. outcome. For Oil & Gas a decrease in EBITA-margin of 3.0% or an increase in WACC of 2.5% will lead to impairment. 126 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 14 FIXED ASSETS LAND, BUILDINGS OFFICE EQUIPMENT, AND OTHER FIXTURES PROPERTY AND FITTINGS TOTAL AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION Acquisition cost 1 January 2017 1 581.4 3 873.5 5 454.9 Additions 77.1 263.9 341.0 Additions from business combinations 0.4 4.4 4.8 Disposals (34.6) (159.2) (193.8) Currency translation differences 76.9 143.5 220.3 Total acquisition cost 31 December 2017 1 701.2 4 126.0 5 827.3 Additions 117.2 189.2 306.3 Additions from business combinations 1 710.4 308.9 2 019.2 Disposals (47.5) (226.4) (273.8) Currency translation differences 12.9 29.6 42.6 Total acquisition cost 31 December 2018 3 494.2 4 427.3 7 921.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 1 January 2017 614.0 2 385.7 2 999.7 Depreciation 106.8 228.8 335.7 Impairment 13.9 0.0 13.9 Disposals (18.6) (132.4) (151.0) Currency translation differences 19.6 65.1 84.7 Total accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 December 2017 735.8 2 547.2 3 283.0 Depreciation 129.2 229.0 358.2 Impairment 58.2 493.8 552.0 Additions from business combinations 424.6 280.3 705.5 Disposals (9.1) (179.5) (188.7) Currency translation differences 12.8 22.4 35.2 Total accumulated depreciation and impairment 31 December 2018 1 351.5 3 393.2 4 744.7 Net book value 31 December 2018 2 142.7 1 034.3 3 176.9 31 December 2017 965.4 1 578.9 2 544.3 Useful life 15–67 years 3–15 years indefinite (land) Depreciation plan Linear Linear Due to a significant deterioration in the market conditions for High Power The disposals for 2018 are mainly related to sale of properties and laboratory testing, an impairment loss related to Energy laboratories of a plot of land in Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS, leading to a gain NOK 552 million has been recognized. The impairment loss has been based of NOK 196.9 million. on the value in use estimated using the future expected cash flows covering a 30-year period and no residual value. Discount rate (WACC) is set to 7.9%. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 127 15 INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES DNV GL Group AS’ ownership (through DNV GL AS) in StormGeo 1 June 2018, DNV GL acquired the remaining 50% shares of the Holding AS is 27%. The investment is recognized in accordance associated company, DNV GL Presafe AS, leading to a 100% with the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. ownership of the company. The loss for the year in the table below represent the net loss from January to May 2018. COMPANY SHARE OF LOSS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION BUSINESS OFFICE OWNERSHIP ACQUISITION COST FOR THE YEAR BOOK VALUE StormGeo Holding AS Bergen 27% 145.5 (1.3) 183.4 DNV GL Presafe AS Oslo (1.9) 0.0 Total investment in associates (3.2) 183.4 16 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 Contract liabilities 2 559.5 2 256.9 Accrued bonus to employees 400.0 262.8 Accrued holiday allowances 428.5 415.8 Unrealized loss and interest related to forward contracts 80.5 0.0 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 1 140.7 1 152.9 Total other current liabilities 4 609.1 4 088.5 17 TRADE DEBTORS DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 Gross trade debtors 4 600.6 4 483.6 Provision for bad debts (174.6) (169.9) Net trade debtors 4 426.0 4 313.7 128 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 18 OTHER LONG-TERM RECEIVABLES DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 Loans to employees 29.0 42.5 Other long-term receivables 366.9 359.1 Total other long-term receivables 395.9 401.6 19 PROVISIONS DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION CLAIMS AND OTHER ONEROUS LEASE RESTRUCTURING TOTAL CONTINGENCIES PROVISIONS Balance at 1 January 2017 172.8 367.3 314.2 90.7 945.0 Currency translation differences 5.9 2.9 18.6 4.1 31.4 Additions 0.0 86.1 210.9 50.9 347.8 Utilization (32.0) (68.1) (282.4) (28.9) (411.4) Reversal (25.0) (5.8) (8.8) 0.0 (39.6) Balance at 31 December 2017 121.6 382.4 252.4 116.8 873.2 Current 46.0 106.1 242.6 86.0 480.7 Non-current 75.6 276.3 9.7 30.8 392.5 Balance at 31 December 2018 121.6 382.4 252.4 116.8 873.2 Elimination due to transfer of DNV Eiendom1 0.0 (246.0) 0.0 0.0 (246.0) Balance at 1 January 2018 121.6 136.4 252.4 116.8 627.2 Currency translation differences 0.4 1.9 1.3 0.2 3.9 Additions 0.0 30.3 113.9 36.3 180.5 Utilization (5.8) (67.4) (220.4) (54.8) (348.4) Reversal (34.3) (3.7) (20.2) (1.8) (60.1) Balance at 31 December 2018 82.0 97.4 127.0 96.7 403.1 Current 82.0 27.0 115.3 40.2 264.6 Non-current 0.0 70.4 11.6 56.5 138.5 Provisions for claims and contingencies reflect fair value of pending obligations (net of incoming cash flows expected from sub-lease) legal disputes from acquisitions and provisions for other pending under the onerous lease contracts at year-end 2018. The provisions legal disputes. have been discounted. The exposure for other claims classified as contingent liabilities, less Included in other provisions are provisions for onerous contracts likely than not to materialize, amounts to less than NOK 20 million. and lease contract dilapidations. Onerous lease provisions represent best estimates of the net lease 1 As a consequence of the transfer of the shares in Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS (DNV Eiendom) from Det Norske Veritas Holding AS to DNV GL Group AS, onerous lease provisons for lease contracts with Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS have been eliminated from 1 January 2018 (ref. Note 3.) ANNUAL REPORT 2018 129 20 CASH AND BANK DEPOSITS DNV GL Group AS has the following cash pool systems: BALANCE OVERDRAFT 31 DEC. 18 BANK FACILITY (MILL) PARTICIPATING ENTITIES (MILL NOK) Danske Bank NOK 200 All DNV GL subsidiaries in Norway, Denmark, Sweden, 552 Finland, UK, Ireland, Faroe Islands, and the Baltics Deutsche Bank EUR 20 Several subsidiaries in Europe 127 Bank of America Most of the DNV GL subsidiaries in US 170 Bank of America Most of the DNV GL subsidiaries in Canada 47 DNB ASA NOK 50 Some of legacy DNV legal entities 135 Handelsbanken Some DNV GL subsidiaries in Sweden, Poland, Finland, Estonia, 34 Latvia, Lithuania and Germany Citibank AED Some DNV GL legal entities in Middle East 20 Citibank USD (UAE) Some DNV GL legal entities in Middle East 47 Citibank USD (SG) USD 13 Some DNV GL legal entities in Singapore and South East Asia 9 Citibank SGD Some DNV GL legal entities in Singapore and South East Asia 5 Citibank EUR Some legacy DNV legal entities in the Euro-countries (11) Balances on bank accounts participating in the cash pooling systems are considered as internal assets or liabilities vis-à-vis other Group participants. Cash pool balances 31 December are included in Cash and bank deposits in the balance sheet at 31 December. The following DNV GL Group AS’ wholly owned subsidiaries have the following local credit facilities guaranteed by DNV GL Group AS or DNV GL AS through parent company guarantees: DRAWN OVERDRAFT 31 DEC. 18 BANK FACILITY (MILL) PARTICIPATING ENTITIY (MILL) Citibank China CNY 50 Det Norske Veritas China Company Ltd Undrawn Citibank India INR 40 + INR 30 DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Ltd Undrawn Citibank India INR 200 Garrad Hassan India Private Ltd INR 150 Citibank Korea KRW 17 000 DNV GL Korea Ltd Undrawn Citibank Brazil BRL 15 DNV GL Classificacao Certificacao e Consultoria Brasil Ltda BRL 5.4 Cash and bank deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. 130 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 21 INTEREST BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS DNV GL Group AS has an agreement for a NOK 1 000 million multidispose of material assets. The credit agreement requires that currency revolving credit facility with Handelsbanken Norwegian DNV GL Group AS on a consolidated basis maintains a certain branch of Svenska Handelsbanken AB. The facility expires in May minimum level of equity and that the net interest bearing debt does 2022 and was undrawn per year-end 2018. The credit agreement not exceed a set level relative to total equity. DNV GL Group AS supporting this facility has certain covenants, including a negative was well within all covenants at year-end. pledge clause, and also restrict DNV GL Group AS’ ability to freely 22 LIABILITIES GROUP COMPANIES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 Non-current liabilities 2 100.0 0.0 Group internal loan from Det Norske Veritas Holding AS 2 100.0 0.0 570.8 610.3 Group internal loans from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 2 670.8 610.3 Total loans from group companies 2 100.0 00 Current liabilities 0.0 83.6 Group contribution 209.4 0.0 2 727.5 1 243.3 Debt to cash-pool participants 380.8 0.0 33.5 53.0 Group internal accounts payable 10.1 5.8 2 761.0 1 379.9 Total current liabilities group companies 600.3 5.8 5 431.8 1 990.2 Total liabilities group companies 2 700.3 5.8 23 SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERS The share capital of DNV GL Group AS consist of 1 000 000 shares, with par value of NOK 100 each. The company is owned 100% by Det Norske Veritas Holding AS, with business office in Bærum, Norway. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 131 24 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS DNV GL AS has a lease agreement for the office building in DNV GL AS has a service agreement with the related party Stavanger, Norway with the related party DNV GL Pension fund, DNV GL Pension fund for management and administrative the rent expensed in 2018 amounts to NOK 7.3 million. services. The revenue recognized for these services in 2018 is NOK 0.3 million. DNV GL AS has a management services agreement for the delivery of general management and administrative services with the related party Det Norske Veritas Holding AS (100% shareholder). The revenue recognized for these services in 2018 is NOK 6.8 million. 25 FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 1 31 DECEMBER 2018 31 DECEMBER 2017 DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS OTHER INSTRUMENTS OTHER AT FAIR VALUE AMORTIZED FAIR VALUE FINANCIAL AT FAIR VALUE LOANS AND AVAILABLE FINANCIAL AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION THROUGH P&L COSTS THROUGH P&L LIABILITIES THROUGH P&L RECEIVABLES FOR SALE LIABILITIES ASSETS Non-current assets Equity investments 27.4 27.8 Loans to employees 29.0 42.5 Other long-term receivables 366.9 359.1 Current assets Cash and bank deposits 2 630.6 3 659.7 Trade debtors 4 426.0 4 313.7 Other debtors 857.4 988.9 Forward contracts 3.0 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Non-current Other non-current liabilities 292.5 455.8 Current Trade creditors 544.7 509.0 Overdrafts 30.7 Forward contracts 80.5 1 The classifications of financial assets and financial liabilities have for 2018 been updated with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018. The classifications for 2017 is in accordance with the old standard IAS 39. 132 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 26 GUARANTEES DNV GL GROUP AS AMOUNTS IN NOK MILLION DNV GL GROUP AS CONSOLIDATED 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 31 DEC. 18 31 DEC. 17 0.0 5.7 Guarantee commitments not included in the accounts 304.6 268.8 These guarantees are not secured by mortgage. Guarantee commitments are mainly related to customer contracts entered into by DNV GL Group subsidiary companies. 27 NEW STANDARDS ISSUED, EFFECTIVE AND NOT YET EFFECTIVE IFRS 15 REVENUES FROM CONTRACTS AND IFRS 9 FINANCIAL The Group will recognize assets and liabilities for its leases of INSTRUMENTS. The Group has initially applied IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 properties previously recognized as operating lease. The nature from 1 January 2018. The implementation of the new IFRS standards of expenses related to those leases will now change because the have no material impact on DNV GL’s consolidated fianancial Group will recognize a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets statements and no implementation effects have been recognized and interest expense on lease liabilities. Previously, the Group in 2018. recognized operating lease expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, and recognized assets and liabilities only IFRS 16 LEASES. Of those standards that are not yet effective, to the extent that there was a timing difference between actual IFRS 16 is expected to have a material impact on the Group’s lease payments and the expense recognized. financial statements in the period of initial application. In addition, the Group will no longer recognize provisions for The Group is required to adopt IFRS 16 Leases from 1 January operating leases that it assesses to be onerous as described in 2019. The Group has assessed the estimated impact that initial Note 19. Instead, the Group will include the payments due under application of IFRS 16 will have on its consolidated financial the lease in its lease liability. statements, as described below. The actual impacts of adopting the standard on 1 January 2019 may change because: Based on the information currently available, the Group estimates – the Group has not finalised the testing and assessment that it will recognize lease liabilities of NOK 1 977 million and of controls over its new IT systems; and right-of-use asset of NOK 1 880 as at 1 January 2019. – the new accounting policies are subject to change until the Group presents its first financial statements that include the TRANSITION date of initial application. DNV GL Group will implement the new standard with effect 1 January 2019. DNV GL Group will use the modified retrospective approach for transition to IFRS 16 and the right-of-use asset will be set equal to the liability, adjusted for the onerous lease, 1 January 2019. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 133 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the General Meeting of DNV GL Group AS REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence OPINION. We have audited the financial statements of DNV GL Group AS, which the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. comprise: As part of an audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including ISAs, we exercise The financial statements of the parent company DNV GL Group AS (the Company), professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018, the We also: income statement, statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statefinancial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, and ments, whether due to fraud or error. We design and perform audit procedures The consolidated financial statements of DNV GL Group AS and its subsidiaries responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appro(the Group), which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December priate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 2018, the income statement, statement of comprehensive income, the statement misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. or the override of internal control. In our opinion: obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the law and regulations. design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s The accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial or the Group’s internal control. position of the Company as at 31 December 2018, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with simplified application evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableof international accounting standards according to section 3-9 of the Norwegian ness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. Accounting Act. conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern The accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a of the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2018, and its financial material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with simplified doubt on the Company and the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. application of international accounting standards according to section 3-9 of the If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention Norwegian Accounting Act. in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are BASIS FOR OPINION. We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including InterHowever, future events or conditions may cause the Company and the Group national Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are to cease to continue as a going concern. further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Stateevaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, ments section of our report. We are independent of the Company and the Group including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the as required by laws and regulations, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsiunderlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. bilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion OTHER INFORMATION. Management is responsible for the other information. The on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, other information comprises information in the annual report, except the financial supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible statements and our auditor’s report thereon. for our audit opinion. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. We communicate with the Board of Directors regarding, among other matters, In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. OPINION ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT. Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE MANAGING DIRECTOR presented in the Board of Directors’ report and in the statements on Corporate FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility concerning the financial statements (Management) are responsible for the preparation in accordance with law and and the going concern assumption is consistent with the financial statements regulations, including fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance and complies with the law and regulations. with simplified application of international accounting standards according to the Norwegian Accounting Act section 3-9, and for such internal control as management OPINION ON REGISTRATION AND DOCUMENTATION . Based on our audit of determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are the financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on AssurIn preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing ance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or the Company’s and the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, Reviews of Historical Financial Information, it is our opinion that management as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis has fulfilled its duty to produce a proper and clearly set out registration and of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease documentation of the Company’s accounting information in accordance with the operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. law and bookkeeping standards and practices generally accepted in Norway. AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial stateOslo, 4 April 2019 ments as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, KPMG AS and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance Mona Irene Larsen with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in State Authorised Public Accountant Norway, including ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 134 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S ASSURANCE REPORT To the readers of DNV GL Group’s Sustainability Reporting 2018 We have been engaged by the management of DNV GL GROUP AS (‘DNV GL’) to LIMITED ASSURANCE OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING 2017. The procedures provide limited assurance in respect of the sustainability reporting in the Annual selected depend on our understanding of the sustainability reporting and other Report 2018 (hereafter sustainability reporting 2018) of DNV GL. The scope excludes engagement circumstances, and our consideration of areas where material future events or the achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of misstatements are likely to arise. Our procedures for limited assurance on the DNV GL and information contained in webpages referred to in the sustainability sustainability reporting 2018 included, amongst others: reporting 2018 unless specified in this report. A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant sustainability OUR CONCLUSION. Our conclusion has been formed on the basis of, and is subject issues for DNV GL in the reporting period; to, the matters outlined in this report. Interviews with senior management and relevant staff at corporate level We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate concerning sustainability strategy and policies for material issues, and the to provide a basis for our conclusions. implementation of these across the business; Based on the limited assurance procedures performed and the evidence Enquiries to management to gain an understanding of DNV GL’s processes obtained, as described below, nothing has come to our attention, to indicate for determining material issues for key stakeholder groups; that the sustainability reporting 2018 is not presented, in all material respects, Interviews with relevant staff at corporate level responsible for providing in accordance with the criteria as defined by the GRI Standards; Core option. the information, carrying out internal control procedures and consolidating the data in the sustainability reporting 2018; Reviewing relevant internal and external documentation, on a limited test MANAGEMENT OF DNV GL GROUP AS’ RESPONSIBILITY. The management of basis, in order to determine the reliability of the sustainability reporting 2018; DNV GL is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the sustainability Reading the sustainability reporting 2018 to determine whether there are reporting 2018 in accordance with the criteria as defined by the GRI Standards; any material misstatements of fact or material inconsistencies based on our Core option. It is important to view the information in the sustainability reporting understanding obtained through our assurance engagement. 2018 in the context of these criteria. These responsibilities include establishing such internal controls as management The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature determines are necessary to enable the preparation of the information in the and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagesustainability reporting 2018 that are free from material misstatement, whether ment, and consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance due to fraud or error. engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. OUR RESPONSIBILITY. Our responsibility is to provide a limited assurance conclusion on DNV GL’s preparation and presentation of the sustainability reporting 2018. PURPOSE OF OUR REPORT We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for In accordance with the terms of our engagement, this assurance report has been Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): “Assurance Engagements other than Audits prepared for DNV GL for the purpose of assisting the management in determining or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International Auditing whether DNV GL’s limited assurance sustainability information is prepared and and Assurance Standards Board. presented in accordance with the GRI Standards; Core option and for no other ISAE 3000 requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited purpose or in any other context. assurance about whether the information in the sustainability reporting 2018 is free from material misstatement. The firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly Oslo, 4 April 2019 maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies KPMG AS and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Mona Irene Larsen We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of State Authorized Public Accountant the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles Anette Rønnov of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality Director and professional behavior. CONTACT INFORMATION PUBLISHED BY: SUBSCRIPTION: FEEDBACK: CONCEPT AND DESIGN: Group Communications, You can subscribe to annual Please let us know your views or DNV GL Group AS and half-year reports from comments on this report by email fasett.no Editor: Ellen Skarsgård DNV GL on dnvgl.com/ to communications@dnvgl.com publications/annual-report or write to us at: DNV GL, Group Communications, NO-1322 Høvik, Norway. Sturlasson: Page 4 Shutterstock: pages 7, 35, 37, 43, DNV GL / Holger Martens: pages 14, 26,39, 49, 52, 66, 78, 102 Johs Bøe: pages 92, 100–101 50, 55, 58, 88 DNV GL / Elin Eike Worren: cover, pages 16, 41, 54, 60 aenfotografi.no/Brødrene AA: Offset by Shutterstock: pages 12, 32 DNV GL / Nina Rangøy: pages 3, 33 pages 12, 28 Getty Images: pages 13, 29, 36, 38, 39, DNV GL / Peter Lovegrove: page 6 Peter Lilja: page 39 (turbines) 40, 42, 43, 44, 47, 48, 51, 55, 74, 88 DNV GL / Max Emanuelson: page 84 Bente Vestergaard: page 55 (turbines) iStock: page 46 DNV GL / Jaap Bunschoten: page 80 Ida H. Eldøen /Tagline DA: page 86 AdobeStock: page 33 (vessel) DNV GL / (made by Spice VR): pages 29, 30, 56, 90 Red Cross: page 89 DNV GL / (Singapore office): page 83 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 135 GRI INDEX This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. The report is independently assured by KPMG and their independent auditors assurance report concludes that the report is presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the core level of the GRI Standards. This report also constitutes our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI DISCLOSURE WHERE REPORTED PAGE GRI DISCLOSURE WHERE REPORTED PAGE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE GOVERNANCE 102–1 Name of the organization Company 3 Corporate governance 97 Corporate Governance report: Activities, brands, products, Company 3 102–18 Governance structure 102–2 www.dnvgl.com/about/in-brief/ and services Business areas at a glance 12–13 corporate-governance 102–3 Location of headquarters Group structure 10–11 Company 3 102–4 Location of operations STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Group structure 10–11 102–40 List of stakeholder groups What is important to us 16–17 Group Structure 10-11 102–5 Ownership and legal form Group information 103 Collective bargaining 102–41 People > Approach 68 agreements Company 3 102–6 Markets served Business areas at a glance 12–13 Identifying and selecting 102–42 What is important to us 16–17 Markets 26–47 stakeholders DNV GL at a glance 3 What is important to us 16–17 Approach to stakeholder 102–7 Scale of the organization Key figures 8–9 102–43 Customer satisfaction 56–57 12–13 engagement 67 Business areas at a glance People Information on employees What is important to us 16–17 102–8 People > Performance 70–73 and other workers 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised Customer satisfaction 56–57 Health and safety 61 102–9 Supply chain Sustainable procurement 83–85 102–10 Significant changes to Group structure 10–11 the organization and its Significant changes REPORTING PRACTICE supply chain in Group structure 114–115 67 Entities included in the consolPeople 102–45 Financial performance 91 idated financial statements Precautionary Principle or 102–11 Environment and climate 82 Defining report content and approach 102–46 What is important to us 16–19 topic boundaries Vision to impact 15 102–47 List of material topics What is important to us 16–19 102–12 External initiatives Collaborating for a better future 86–89 102–48 Restatements of information Health and safety 61, 65 Collaborating for a better 102–49 Changes in reporting What is important to us 16–19 102–13 Membership of associations 86–89 future 102–50 Reporting period GRI index 137 102–51 Date of most recent report GRI index 137 STRATEGY 102–52 Reporting cycle Annual N/A Statement from senior 102–14 CEO statement 4–5 Contact point for questions decision-maker 102–53 Contact information 135 regarding the report Claims of reporting in ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102–54 accordance with the GRI GRI Index 136 Standards Values, principles, standards, Vision to impact 14–15 102–16 and norms of behaviour Ethics and compliance 74–77 102–55 GRI content index GRI Index 136-137 102–56 External assurance Assurance statement 135 136 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Omissions from the GRI Standards Reporting period and format 1 205–2 DISCLOSURE PARTLY REPORTED. The reason for the 2 403–2 DISCLOSURE PARTLY REPORTED. The reason for the The reporting period for the information provided is omission is a lack of information on employee category and omission is that our health and safety performance on purpose the 2018 calendar year. The sustainability reporting region for our communication of anti-corruption policies is and will not be reported by gender. An important objective is integrated into the digital Annual Report and the and procedures. As 98% and 97% of all employees across of incident and hazard reporting is to increase reporting last report was made available on 2 May 2018 on the categories and regions have completed the mandatory and share the experience gained across organizational units. company website. Code of Conduct and Anti-corruption and Antitrust For this reason, there is open access to, and an improved user e-learning respectively, we will not register more details. interface with, our incident and hazard database, Synergi Life. Reference to gender is not included in the reporting system to limit the possibility of disclosing someone’s identity. TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES GRI DISCLOSURE WHERE REPORTED PAGE GRI DISCLOSURE WHERE REPORTED PAGE MANAGEMENT APPROACH EMPLOYMENT Explanation of the material New employee hires and 103-1 Sustainability 401-1 People > Performance 71 topic and its boundary 15, 57, employee turnover The management approach 59, 62, 103-2 Sustainability and its components 68, 76, 79, 82 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Evaluation of the management 103-3 Sustainability approach Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 403-2 2 Health and safety 60-65 and absenteeism, and number ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE of work-related fatalities Direct economic value 201-1 Economic contribution 79 generated and distributed TRAINING AND EDUCATION Average hours of training 404-1 People 66–73 ANTI-CORRUPTION per year per employee Communication and training Percentage of employees 205-21 about anti-corruption Ethics and compliance 74–77 404-3 receiving regular performance People 66–73 policies and procedures and career development reviews ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Legal actions for anti-competitive The Executive Committee 24–25 Diversity of governance bodies 206-1 behaviour, anti-trust, and Ethics and compliance 75 405-1 People > Performance 73 and employees 100-101 monopoly practices Board of Directors’ profiles EMISSIONS NON-DISCRIMINATION 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment and climate 80–82 Incidents of discrimination People 68 406-1 and corrective actions taken Ethics and compliance 77 Energy indirect (Scope 2) 305-2 Environment and climate 80–82 GHG emissions Other indirect (Scope 3) SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 305-3 Environment and climate 80–82 GHG emissions Negative social impacts in the 414-2 Sustainable procurement 83–85 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment and climate 81 supply chain and actions taken ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE CUSTOMER PRIVACY Non-compliance with Substantiated complaints Data privacy and security 58–59 307-1 environmental laws and Environment and climate 81 418-1 concerning breaches of customer Ethics and compliance > 77 regulations privacy and losses of customer data Performance SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE Negative environmental Non-compliance with laws and 308-2 impacts in the supply chain Sustainable procurement 83–85 419-1 regulations in the social and Ethics and compliance 75 and actions taken economic area ANNUAL REPORT 2018 137 SAFER, SMARTER, GREENER HEADQUARTERS: ABOUT DNV GL DNV GL AS DNV GL is a global quality assurance and risk management company. Driven NO-1322 Høvik, Norway by our purpose of safeguarding life, property and the environment, we enable Tel: +47 67 57 99 00 www.dnvgl.com our customers to advance the safety and sustainability of their business. We provide classification, technical assurance, software and independent expert advisory services to the maritime, oil & gas, power and renewables industries. We also provide certification, supply chain and data management services to customers across a wide range of industries. Combining technical, digital and operational expertise, risk methodology and in-depth industry knowledge, we empower our customers’ decisions and actions with trust and confidence. We continuously invest in research and collaborative innovation to provide customers and society with operational and technological foresight. With origins stretching back to 1864 and operations in more than 100 countries, our experts are dedicated to helping customers make the world safer, smarter and greener. dnvgl.com The trademarks DNV GL®, DNV®, the Horizon Graphic and Det Norske Veritas® are the properties of companies in the Det Norske Veritas group. All rights reserved. ©DNV GL 04/2019 Design: Fasett
