GRAN LIVING ApS This is our Communication on Progress 2019 GRAN LIVING is truly on an exciting CSR journey these years! Major projects towards sustainability is running and new initiatives keeps popping up. A remarkable change we see in the way we work with CSR at GRAN LIVING, is the involvement of everyone in the company. CSR is no longer just for the few. Now we see great ideas and inputs coming from here and there. For us, this is one of the We continue our support clearest signs that CSR is really becoming part of our DNA. As you will find in this COP, supply chain management is central. We expect a lot from our suppliers. We expect that they make products in excellent quality. We expect that they can offer competitive prices. We expect that they comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct. And we expect that they do their utmost to care for their surroundings. This is why we strive to choose only the best suppliers to work with us. This is hard work and requires a continuous effort which will never end. We believe that a stronger and closer relationship with our suppliers is the way to more influence. We are navigating in what is called high risk areas. It comes with obligations! That is why we spend a lot of resources of managing our supply chain and this has become one of our most important priorities. In this fourth Communication on Progress, we share our accomplishments in 2018 and the accomplishments we strive to achieve in the year to come. Yours sincerely Per Gran Hartvigsen CEO GRAN LIVING ApS, Denmark, COP for 2019 GRAN LIVING ApS Behind GRAN LIVING ApS is the couple Per and Kathrine Gran Hartvigsen who has successfully run the company since 2004. Ever since its foundation, the company Our story has designed and imported quality home interior for leading chains and has extensive experience with trend spotting, developments of its own designs and production of interior for the home. AYTM The brand AYTM was established by GRAN LIVING ApS in 2015. AYTM designs and sells high-end home interior worldwide. Read more about GRAN LIVING and AYTM at: www.granliving.dk www.aytm.dk HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT GRAN LIVING cares about the GRAN LIVING cares about the safety and well-being of our environment with concern for the employees at all times. GRAN future. We focus on the long-term LIVING will not conduct business consequences of our activities with any supplier engaging in or and strive to prevent, minimize benefiting directly from human and remedy adverse impacts rights abuses. GRAN LIVING our activities place on our earth, Our CSR policy expects all suppliers to support and we expect the same from all At GRAN LIVING we acknowledge our and respect the protection of parties throughout our supply responsibility to contribute to a better internationally declared human chain to secure the best possible world within our scope of influence. Based rights stated in the International conditions for future generations. on our capabilities, we voluntarily take Bill of Human Rights. the initiative to protect the workers and the environment in the areas in which we operate and we continuously seek to improve conditions for the employees and the surroundings. LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION GRAN LIVING supports and acts GRAN LIVING refrains from in compliance with internationally corruption and bribery in any declared labour rights and expects form. We believe in ethical and our business partners to do likewise. fair business practices, and expect We strongly repudiate childand from both own employees and forced labour. We acknowledge external business partners to avoid diversity and the rights of any kind of unethical business employees. Therefore, we will not practices. accept any kind of discrimination or violations of rights. Human rights and labour rights ACTIVITIES INITIATED AND ACHIVED IN 2018 We have made a thorough screening of the entire supplier base in order to limit the number of active suppliers, with the purpose of building a stronger and closer relationship with existing suppliers. All active suppliers have completed the first CSR measurement. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2019 Conduct five third party CSR audits Make second assessment of supplier base Conduct follow-up measurements with all suppliers ACTIVITIES INITIATED AND ACHIVED IN 2018 Despite the fact that we at GRAN LIVING have employed new staff in 2018, we continue to lower the number of prints. Saving paper and resources has truly become a part of our mindset! In 2016 we initiated a project aiming at making AYTM packaging sustainable. In 2018 we finally made a contract with out Environment chosen supplier and we are now ready to launch our new sustainable packaging for AYTM in 2019. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2019 In 2019 we will launch our new range of sustainable packaging for AYTM! This is a major step and we are very much looking forward to tell you all about our journey in the COP 2020. In December 2017 we initiated a cooperation with Danish Compliance House through Miljøstyrelsen. Through the project, we investigate our opportunities to certify a chosen range of our home textiles. To this point, we found that the task of certifying our textiles is too comprehensive. Therefore, we have chosen another approach; to find an existing supplier with a certification from who we can purchase our textiles. As an international business, we at GRAN LIVING are travelling frequently. It is no secret that flights are a major sinner when it comes to CO2 emissions. Therefore, we have decided to compensate for our flightrelated CO2 emissions on all flights with AIR FRANCE, KLM and Delta Airlines earned in the BlueBiz program. Another everyday-sinner for our environment Environment is meat. We love meat at GRAN LIVING, but we also love our planet. That is why we have decided to lower our consumption of meat with a start of one vegetarian day a month and then through out 2019 increase the amount of vegetarian days. So many products you can buy today contains palm-oil. Palm-oil, if not from sustainable sources, is one of the main reasons why deforestation of the worlds rainforests happens – to make room for more palm-oil plantations. GRAN LIVING will not contribute to this, which is why we will make sure that none of our products contains nonsustainable palm-oil. The first step is to test our existing products. This we will achieve in 2019. ACTIVITIES INITIATED AND ACHIVED IN 2018 The goal for 2018 was to compose a company policy and guideline to the Anti corruption employees to prevent corruption and bribe. This we did in 2018. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2018 For 2019 it is important that our employees, business partners, customers and suppliers are all aware of the new company policy in this area. The first step is internal meetings where the staff can discuss how to discover, prevent and manage cases of bribery and corruption. Thank you for reading our Communication on Progress 2019 For more info, please contact: Stinna Kjærsgård Kristensen CSR & Quality Manager skk@granliving.dk +45 3693 7837
