SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Message from the CEO Sustainability as part of ORIX’s DNA business activities. Sustainability as a mindset has been an integral part of ORIX’s DNA since day one, and our Sustainability used to be peripheral to investment goal has always been to meet societal needs through decisions, corporate management and employee our business activities. recruiting. It was generally a concept that academia, ORIX has consistently inculcated a corporate culture non-profits and governmental and intergovernmental that stresses innovation, flexibility and action. As a organizations used within a social and moral context. result, we believe we have grown into a corporation However, society at large has embraced the sustainability unlike any other. Our unique corporate culture has been mindset. It is becoming a fundamental parameter a source of strength that has enabled ORIX to grow for investment decisions among stakeholders, and diverse businesses worldwide. society’s expectations and requirements for companies are escalating. Sustainability is not a mere formality. ORIX’s multi-faceted diversity For a truly global company that contributes to economic development and sustained growth within the context of The diversity that characterizes ORIX has two aspects. constant economic, societal and environmental change, it One is the geographical diversity of our business is a fundamental component of all corporate activities. network encompassing not just Japan, but the world. ORIX currently operates in 37 countries and regions The other is the extensive experience and long list of around the world. We originated in Japan and have achievements generated by our exceptionally diverse our headquarters here, but we do not subscribe to the portfolio of businesses. This diversity is an irreplaceable stereotypical model and culture of a Japanese company. asset that defines and characterizes ORIX. The extensive We believe we must be an international company that experience we have gained from managing our diverse holds itself to the highest global standards. The move portfolio of businesses gives us the ability to see toward sustainability in Japan may not yet have the through the peripheral and grasp the essential core of same momentum as it does in other economically any particular matter, which enables us to anticipate developed regions such as Europe and the United societal needs and quickly and flexibly capture emerging States, but ORIX sets detailed directives and goals business opportunities. for sustainability that it can pursue in its day-to-day However, the diversity of our global business portfolio 1 and our geographic diversity sometimes pose challenges Sustainable growth driven by diversity in applying the monolithic concept of sustainability throughout ORIX. Our people operate in a variety of Managing risk is also part of sustainability. But with environments and regions and therefore have differing risk also comes the potential for new and significant needs and issues, so a Group-wide management opportunities. If we lose sight of this, we risk being approach is not necessarily appropriate. Even if we constrained by conservative, short-term thinking set a Group-wide framework for sustainability, not in our business activities. ORIX therefore needs to all businesses can apply it without modification. We nurture a long-term, “eyes on the horizon” approach therefore need to consider approaches to sustainability that incorporates multiple perspectives, all informed that accommodate the characteristics, environment by sustainability. Such an approach will enable us to and issues of each business unit. That requires senior engage in various new businesses. management from the Group CEO on down to clearly I am confident that ORIX’s diversity will drive demonstrate their commitment to sustainability and to sustainable growth in a changing world. We look give direction to ORIX. forward to expanding our portfolio of businesses that Each business unit is responsible for creating and contribute to society, and to further deepening our executing its own approach to sustainability aligned dialogue with stakeholders. with both the characteristics of its business and the Group-wide sustainability framework. We need to put in the time and effort to do this carefully, with due consideration of relevant issues. I intend to maintain a proactive approach to sustainability and as the head of senior management will disclose in detail information regarding ORIX’s directives with regards sustainability. ORIX operates in a wide range of businesses, and can therefore respond flexibly to all types of social change. Makoto Inoue Member of the Board of Directors We continuously provide this unique value to the Representative Executive Officer markets we serve. That is the ORIX business model. President and Chief Executive Officer 2 Corporate Philosophy ORIX is constantly anticipating market needs and working to contribute to society by developing leading financial services on a global scale and striving to offer innovative products that create new value for customers. Management Policy 1. O RIX strives to meet the diverse needs of its customers and to deepen trust by constantly providing superior services. 2. ORIX aims to strengthen its base of operations and achieve sustained growth by integrating its resources to promote synergies amongst different units. 3. ORIX makes efforts to develop a corporate culture that shares a sense of fulfillment and pride by developing personnel resources through corporate programs and promoting professional development. 4. ORIX aims to attain stable mediumand long-term growth in shareholder value by implementing these initiatives. Action Guidelines Creativity Develop the flexibility and foresight to constantly take actions that are creative and innovative. Integration Enhance ORIX Group strength by actively exchanging knowledge, ideas, and experiences. 3 EC21 (Excellent Company 21) Foreword ORIX established “EC21,” which distinguishes ORIX’s Corporate ORIX proactively tackles social issues and Vision as an “Excellent Company in the 21st Century,” based on our needs and provides unique value based on corporate philosophy, management policy and action guidelines. our commitment to contributing to society through our business activities. In keeping Pride with this commitment, we have published our We have pride in creating new value which is highly regarded from the market. Sustainability Report 2019 to present our The function of a company in society is to make a positive sustainability initiatives. The objectives of this contribution to the economy reflected in the world around us. report are to fulfill our responsibility to meet This is the true purpose and role of a company. By achieving stakeholder demand for disclosure, to effectively this purpose at a higher level, ORIX is proud that as a company explain our approach to sustainability, and to it contributes to society. improve our business management through Trust dialogue with our stakeholders. We hope the We win the trust of all stakeholders by responding professionally report gives readers a deeper understanding to diverse society needs. of ORIX as we aim to realize a sustainable It is the stakeholders, including shareholders, customers and society and sustainable growth through our employees, that have the most direct and large involvement in supporting the existence and development of a company. We aim sustainability initiatives. to be a company that exceeds international standards by responding not only to the expectations of all of our stakeholders Scope of the Report but also the expectations of society as a whole. By responding to ORIX Corporation and Group companies in these various expectations while maintaining a humble and Japan and overseas. In this report, “ORIX” modest position, we wish to become a company trusted by all. refers to the ORIX Group. Respect Disclosure of Sustainability Information We earn utmost respect from society with the highest In addition to the Sustainability Report, ORIX standards of compliance with all laws, morals and a discloses sustainability information through the transparent corporate culture. If a problem occurs that offends social norms during the following media. course of corporate activities, the reputation of the company will Group Sustainability Website be harmed. By acting according to higher standards than that of Presents information on ORIX’s sustainability solely abiding by the law and raising these standards as ORIX grows, we would like to create a widely respected corporate initiatives. culture of excellence. https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/ Integrated Report Presents information on sustainability in addition to financial information, with the https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/about/overview/philosophy/ec21/ principal objective of enabling a wide range of stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, to gain a multifaceted understanding International Commitments of ORIX’s sustainable growth. ORIX endorses the following international commitments, https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ir/library/annual_report/index.html initiatives, and frameworks: • The United Nations Global Compact • Universal Declaration of Human Rights • T he International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development Contents • The United Nations Convention against Corruption Message from the CEO.......................... 1 Foreword................................................. 4 Participation in the United Nations Global Compact Sustainability at ORIX............................ 5 ORIX became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact in July 2014. We E : Environment..................................... 11 support the ten principles in the four fields of human rights, labour, environS : Social................................................. 23 ment and anti-­corruption, and we are promoting initiatives in each of these fields. G : Governance........................................ 39 4 Sustainability at ORIX Since its inception, ORIX has offered new value to society through its business activities with a fundamental commitment to social contribution. Profits are important to us as a company, but they are not our only objective. We believe that providing new value to and being an integral part of society will result in the profits that enable sustainable growth. ORIX will continue to achieve sustainable growth and fulfill its social responsibilities by contributing to society through its business activities. In September 2019, we adopted our ORIX Corporate Sustainability Policy to clarify our intention to promote sustainability. Purpose of the Sustainability Policy The success of ORIX’s business and the value we create for society are rooted in our ability to identify changes in society and transform them into opportunities through collaboration with our stakeholders. In a world in which the changes we seek out for opportunities—and the scrutiny we face from society— will increasingly come from matters related to corporate sustainability, including environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) issues, integrating sustainability into our operations will play a key part in whether we can continue to create new value and maintain the trust and respect of our stakeholders. This policy sets out the principles by which we integrate sustainability across ORIX so that we can continue to benefit society through our business, both now and in the long-term. Since our business is diverse, different parts of it could have an impact on, or be impacted by, entirely different sets of sustainability issues. As such, the principles set out in this policy are designed so that they can be applied to all areas of the company. Besides these core principles, ORIX is committed to continuously analyzing and identifying the specific sustainability issues relevant to our different business areas and to incorporate these into the management of our business. We also describe our current priority sustainability issues in this policy. Scope of the Sustainability Policy This policy applies to all ORIX employees and covers all of ORIX’s business activities and operations globally. Since ORIX is made up of many diverse businesses with different business models, it is the responsibility of each business unit to implement the policy in a way that accounts for the risks and opportunities particular to their service line. 5 Core Principles of Our Sustainability Considering sustainability issues is a prerequisite if we are to continue to grow in the longterm and to create new value by responding to the needs of society. As such, we look to integrate sustainability into all areas of our decision-making. The strength of our company rests in the diversity of our businesses and the synergies we can achieve among them. It is therefore imperative that we understand how sustainability issues impact each of our businesses individually, and how these impacts filter back to ORIX as a whole. To this end, we commit to doing the following on an ongoing basis. Understand our sustainability priority issues: Identify and understand priority sustainability issues. Identify and pursue sustainability opportunities: Seek out new business opportunities in sustainability issues, including where collaboration across business lines could contribute to solving societal problems. Identify and manage sustainability-related risks: Introduce analysis of sustainability issues in risk management, both at the Group level and for individual businesses. Engage with our stakeholders: Engage with all stakeholders, maintain transparency in our operations, and adequately consider stakeholder feedback in our activities; encourage business partners and suppliers to support this policy. Develop employee awareness: Develop employees’ awareness of this policy, and, when necessary, provide guidance on how to implement it; develop employee awareness and knowledge of priority sustainability issues. 6 Furthermore, the concepts of pride in our company, stakeholder trust, and respect from society are key drivers of ORIX, as outlined in our Corporate Vision, EC21. To maintain our license to operate and grow our business along these lines, we recognize that we must do the following in our daily work. Care for the natural environment: As detailed in our Environmental Policy, we measure and minimize our environmental impacts and look to provide solutions to society’s environmental issues through our business. ORIX takes a precautionary approach, as set out in the Rio Declaration, to environmental challenges, meaning we act proactively to manage environmental risks and do not use lack of full scientific evidence as a reason to postpone reasonable actions to prevent environmental damage. Respect human and labor rights: We uphold human and labor rights as defined in international standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. This includes, but is not limited to, the rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of all forms of compulsory and child labor. Promote diversity, and care for the well-being of our employees: We respect the diversity of our employees and provide opportunities and environments maximizing their professional development. Furthermore, ORIX is committed to respecting the culture, customs and environment of countries and regions where we operate, and positively contribute to those economies and societies. We are also committed to creating safe and secure workplaces where our employees can thrive and where no forms of discrimination are tolerated. Uphold the highest business ethics: At all times we conduct our business in accordance with all laws and promote fair competition. This includes rejecting all forms of corruption and bribery, not engaging in unethical transactions, associating with anti-social forces, or engaging in activities that could lead to conflicts of interest. 7 Sustainability at ORIX Priority Issues ORIX has a diversified business model, meaning different parts of our business impact, and are impacted by, different sustainability issues. For our efforts and contributions to society to be as effective as possible, it is important that we focus on the areas where we have the most impact. At present, we have identified the following material issues for us to address as priority issues in our sustainability efforts. We have also linked these key topics to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to show how we contribute to sustainability in a global context. We are committed to continuously re-assessing and refining our analysis. This means that our list of priority issues may change as our business grows and expands into new areas. Promoting environmentally friendly driving Road traffic represents a significant share of global greenhouse gases and other emissions. By supporting our customers in choosing fuel-efficient vehicles and promoting fuel-efficient driving, we can Automobiles help our customers reach their own environmental ambitions and thereby contribute to the transition to a low-carbon society. Promoting safe driving Upholding the highest safety standards of our leasing, rental and car-sharing vehicles to protect the health and safety of our customers is of the highest priority. Besides ensuring high safety standards of the vehicles we are also committed to promoting safe driving practices. Sustainability considerations in real estate investment and management Environmental and social factors are becoming increasingly important in real estate investment. Buildings with higher environmental performance and buildings that integrate the tenants’ well-being Real Estate into their design and operation are likely to grow in demand among tenants wishing to improve their own sustainability performance and are also likely to have This issue has the potential lower operating costs. These factors in turn affect the to contribute to all SDGs, market value of such properties, leading to creation of not just one specific goal. both environmental, social and economic value. Further, buildings consume significant amounts of energy for heating, cooling, lighting and appliances. Water is also consumed through the use of fixtures and appliances. By working towards environmental efficiency of our buildings, we are able to reduce our environmental footprint while at the same time optimizing operational cost efficiency. 8 Social considerations in real estate management To support the prosperity of individuals and the local communities in which we operate, it is important that we consider social aspects such as accessibility and safety in the management of our real estate Real Estate portfolio. Not only does this enable us to build strong relationships with our stakeholders but it also strengthens our brand and license to operate. Investment in and operation of renewable energy generation The expansion of renewable energy is happening at an ever-increasing pace as the world transitions away from fossil fuels. By investing in and operating renewable energy sources such as solar and geothermal energy, we are supporting this transition while at the same Environment and Energy time securing long-term revenue sources. Conservation of biodiversity Biodiversity refers to the variety of ecosystems and species in the natural environment. These ecosystems provide humans with functions that support societies and economies*. Human activities such as development activities put pressures on the natural environment. Including biodiversity considerations in the planning and development of new projects is key to identifying any issues at an early stage and taking action to protect sensitive ecosystems necessary for human well-being. * Besides providing functions or goods like food, wood and other raw materials, plants, animals, fungi and micro-organisms provide essential regulating functions such as pollination of crops, prevention of soil erosion and water purification, and a vast array of cultural functions, like recreation and a sense of peace. Our Process for Identifying Our Priority Issues ORIX has analyzed our business areas to identify which specific environmental, social and governance-related issues are of most importance to us and our stakeholders. This analysis consisted of both looking to external sources such as established sustainability frameworks, ratings agencies and leading best practices in the industries in which we are involved, as well as looking internally to understand which issues are most important to our current and future business performance. ORIX’s approach to determining its material sustainability issues can be described in four steps. Steps 1 to 3 confirm the sustainability discourse in society at large. We researched the kind of sustainability measures that society demands of businesses and how businesses are responding to these demands. We identified which issues are central and material 9 Sustainability at ORIX in today’s sustainability discourse by determining where the demands of society and corporate responses overlap most strongly. In Step 4, we took the issues identified as central and material in society at large and examined our specific businesses through the lens of those issues. We analyzed the relevance of each such issue to ORIX’s business activities, including the specific risks and opportunities inherent in each issue, and identified and prioritized ORIX’s specific sustainability issues. The specific content of each process is as follows. Step 1 Identify current understanding of key sustainability issues by analyzing the requirements of ratings organizations and standard-setting bodies • Analyze sustainability-related disclosure required by sustainability ratings organizations and sustainability standard-setting bodies. • The above analysis was conducted at a corporate-wide level as well as for specific business areas. • Determine which sustainability issues are relevant at both the corporate level and for each business area on the basis of the above analysis. Step 2 Analyze our competitors’ sustainability issues • Analyze how competitors in our different business areas set goals and priorities for the sustainability issues identified in Step 1. Step 3 Categorize sustainability issues according to importance • A fter Step 1 and Step 2, categorize sustainability issues into four categories on the basis of their relative importance. High Group C Step 1: Importance based on analysis of ratings Important issues for ratings Group A organizations and High-priority issues standard-setting bodies (Potentially important issues) organizations and standard-setting bodies Group B Group D Important issues for competitors Low-priority issues (Potentially important issues) Low Step 2: Importance based on analysis of competitors LowHigh Step 4 Identify priority sustainability issues for each business area • Assess the importance and relevance in terms of risk and opportunities of the sustainability issues categorized in Step 3 at the corporate level and for each business area. • Identify important sustainability issues that ORIX should address as top priorities. 10 Environment Environmental Management Environmental Policy and Goals (Updated September 25, 2012) Environmental Policy ORIX Group strives to understand the needs of customers and society, contributing environmental and energy solutions through business. We will continue to adapt to change brought about by business expansion and growth. Goals 1. Provide new ecological services that contribute environmental and energy solutions. 2. Understand the impact of business activities on the environment, complying with environmental laws and regulations in order to reduce environmental impact. 3. Raise employee awareness and knowledge in order to respond to environmental issues based on our nature of business. 4. Provide and disclose information on matters required by environmental laws and regulations. Environmental Activity Management Structure In order to promote environmental activities with more relevance to ORIX's business, Executive bodies ORIX has put in place the following management structure: Group Executive Executive Committee • The person responsible for environmental activities shall be the Head of Treasury Officer Committee and Accounting Headquarters and the department responsible for policy and plan Activity report Approval formulation will be the ORIX Corporate Planning Department. Responsible person: • Other relevant departments shall be the Legal and External Relations Department, Head of Treasury and Accounting Headquarters Energy and Eco Services Business Headquarters and Corporate Communications Administration: Department. Corporate Planning Department • The structure covers domestic Group companies and involves cooperation between Legal and Energy and Eco Corporate each domestic Group company, especially those in business fields with large External Relations Services Business Communications Department Headquarters Department environmental impacts. The management structure keeps abreast of developments in the environmental sector as well as related legal developments, and develops ORIX Group Companies responses or initiatives in response to such developments. ISO14001 Status ORIX currently possesses ISO14001 environmental management system certification for the following locations. Company Acquisition Date Ubiteq Inc. Oct. 2004 ORIX Environmental Resources Management Corporation Jan. 2009 (Yorii Plant) ORIX Eco Services Corporation (Funabashi Plant) Jun. 2014 ORIX Eco Services Corporation (Kasukabe Plant) Feb. 2017 11 Environment and Energy Business: Energy Business We entered the environment and energy business by investing in the wind power generation business in 1995. We subsequently expanded into a broad range of operations including energy-saving services, electric power retailing, and renewable energy generation. We began to commercialize renewable energy when the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 led us to predict that Japan’s energy business and electricity generation mix would change. We had already established the organization to accelerate our renewable energy business when the feed-in tariff system was first introduced in July 2012. We proceeded to construct a nationwide network for selling solar power generation systems and to acquire the land needed for mega-solar projects. By acting quickly and boldly investing our time and resources into this field, ORIX successfully established a profitable business model ahead of our competitors. Currently, we are engaged in various renewable energy businesses such as solar, biomass, geothermal and wind power. Renewable energy is well positioned to become an important market with a global scale due to the ever growing need for clean energy and call for reduction in carbon emissions, exemplified by the growing number of companies that have committed to RE100.* In particular, the renewable energy market in Asia is expected to expand in line with the increase in electricity demand, and we are taking advantage of the know-how we have cultivated in Japan to pursue business opportunities in this promising market. * An initiative of a global group of companies started in 2014 by The Climate Group, an international environmental NGO. Members aim to procure 100% of their electricity from renewable sources. As of September 2019, there are 203 member companies. Renewable Energy Business (Japan) Mega-solar power generation business Mega-solar power generation business We lease idle, unused land throughout Japan that is owned by municipalities, companies and other organizations, on which we construct and operate large-scale User solar power generation facilities. These mega-solar projects have a maximum output Tranmission of electricity of over 1,000kW (1MW). Mega-solar facilities are long-term projects that generate power for 20 years after Power company the construction and start-up period and involve numerous stakeholders during this long period. As the business owner, ORIX focuses on safe and stable management of Selling agreement all aspects of the project. ORIX (Power generation operator) Operation and maintenance (O&M) are key to stable power plant operations. ORIX outsources solar power plant maintenance and administration to highly reliable industry Maintenance & Design & players and monitors the status of each plant at all times using remote monitoring Lease management construction systems to maintain high standards and maximize efficiency in our power generation. Land Partner Partner owner company company Roof solar power generation business ORIX operates a “rented roof” solar power generation business, utilizing roofs rented out from clients who own large facilities such as factories and warehouses. Unlike Data ground-mounted solar panels, rooftop-mounted panels do not require development Total maximum output of mega-solar power or other preparation of the land, allowing for easy installment and power generation generation business and roof solar power within a short construction period. generation business In addition to enabling energy generation, the benefit for customers who install rooftop solar panels include effective use of a resource that normally does not Secured projects: Approx. 1GW In operation: Approx. 840MW produce profit and improved efficiency of air conditioning systems, as solar panels can  (As of March 31, 2019) act as thermal barriers. From the initial facility design stages, ORIX supports the installment of rooftop solar panels that maximize output. This involvement includes proposals at the design and construction stage of the client’s facility to help maximize the solar generating value of the facility or for the use of lightweight panels when roofs are structurally incapable of supporting heavy panels. 12 As this business involves the installment of systems into facilities owned by our clients, we ensure safe and secure construction by having dedicated personnel advise and oversee the work of contractors. As for the maintenance and administration of the power generation system, we select and commission highly reliable O&M contractors. This initiative also involves the use of roofs of facilities owned by ORIX, including commercial facilities. Biomass power generation business We operate the Agatsuma Biomass Power Plant, a wood chip-fired thermal power station in Higashiagatsuma, Gunma Prefecture. Wood chip-based combustion power generation is a method of generating electricity by burning wood chips in a boiler and rotating the turbine with the hot steam. Wood chips are a biomass*1 substitute for fossil fuels that enables reductions in CO2 emissions. Further, this power plant uses thermal recycling*2 technology, increasing efficiency and reducing environmental impact. The Agatsuma Biomass Power Plant uses domestically sourced wood chips and has a power generation capacity of 13.6MW, and annual power transmission that reached 86 million kWh in the fiscal year ended March 2019. Sourcing quality wood chips is crucial for a stable power supply. The plant uses Agatsuma Biomass Power Plant waste wood from construction and tree trimming, and also employs thinned timber*3 that formerly went unused. We collaborate with the town of Higashiagatsuma and the local forestry association to support local forest maintenance*4 and increase the Biomass power generation business recycling rate for wood chips. Appropriate processing of ash from combustion is also important. The plant User outsources this function to recycling companies so that ash from combustion is used Transmission of electricity effectively. At the recycling plant, combustion ash is used for production of road foundation materials and solar panel installation platforms. Power company and ORIX *1 This refers to organic resources derived from renewable organisms, excluding fossil resources. Of these, woodderived materials are called woody biomass and are attracting attention as environmentally friendly fuels. Supply *2 Thermal recycling refers to the process of collecting and utilizing heat energy generated from combustion, rather than merely incinerating waste materials. Agatsuma Biomass Power Plant *3 This refers to wood that results from thinning operations that thin out dense trees. It is not suitable for building construction materials and is regarded as wood that is difficult to effectively utilize. *4 This refers to practices such as planting, conservation, and thinning to aid forests in continuing to function in Outsourcing Fuel purchase of ash their role in land conservation, water source cultivation, prevention of global warming, and supply of forest processing products such as timber. Agatsuma Bio Power Co., Ltd https://agatsuma.orix-eco.jp/index.htm (Japanese only) Wood chip contractor Ash processer (about 60 wood chip (Manufacturer of contractor companies) recycled products) Wind power generation business We first invested in Japanese land-based wind power generation in 1995. Since then, we have accumulated knowledge of wind power generation in Japan and overseas, and used it to research and examine developments in our wind power generation business, including offshore wind power. • We are investing in Akita Araya Wind Farm (maximum output 8.7MW) in Akita City, Akita Prefecture. • We are considering the feasibility of offshore wind power generation in Choshi City, Chiba Prefecture, via marine geological surveys and other means. Geothermal power generation business ORIX’s Beppu Suginoi Hotel in Beppu City, Oita Prefecture owns and operates a geothermal power plant with a maximum output of 1,900kW (1.9MW), which is the largest in Japan for private use. Utilizing such geothermal power generation businesses and expertise in the management of hot spring hotels, we aim to branch out into several locations nationwide and contribute to the vitalization of local communities. Currently promoted businesses are as follows: • We are set to begin construction of a geothermal power plant with a maximum output of 6,500kW (6.5MW) in the Minami-Kayabe region of Hakodate City, in Hokkaido with the goal of Image of Minami-Kayabe Geothermal Power Plant completing construction and commencing commercial operations in early spring 2022. (Name to be confirmed) 13 Environment • I n Aomori City, Aomori Prefecture, and Kazamaura in Shimokita District, Aomori Prefecture, and Hachimantai City, Iwate Prefecture, ground surveys for the construction of geothermal power stations have been completed and we are now preparing for the drilling survey. • In addition, we have entered into an agreement with the town of Hachijo, Tokyo regarding geothermal power generation and plan to start operation of a geothermal power plant with a maximum output of 4,400kW (4.4MW) in 2022. Support for installing solar power generation systems Data As implementation of solar power accelerates worldwide, the cost per unit of power Total capacity of sold panels: 835MW generation systems is dropping, but construction and other costs remain high in  (As of March 31, 2019) Japan, with system prices higher than in other countries. On the other hand, there is a growing shift in use from conventional sales to consumption of self-generated power, Support for installing solar power backed by amendments to the feed-in tariff system and ESG investment. generation system We take advantage of our direct, wholesale purchases from manufacturers and our network with construction companies nationwide to support customers’ investment Customer in solar power generation facilities at a reasonable price. ORIX provides equipment • Proposal for installation • Sales of equipment of equipment and systems from multiple manufacturers, as well as customized procurement methods including • Finance • Design and • Support for design, Installation installment payment plans, acquisition of business plan approval of the feed-in tariff installation and • Maintenance system, and consultation on applying for subsidies for solar energy self-consumption maintenance Wholesale of equipment and systems system installation. We provide support throughout the process from implementation to Construction maintenance, supporting the smooth installment of facilities for customers. ORIX company Procurement of equipment and systems utilizing Installation the benefits of Renewable Energy Business (Overseas) large-scale purchase Wind power and distributed solar power generation businesses Panel Manufacturer Partner Partner Partner of related in India manufacturer devices company company company India’s population is expected to exceed China’s by 2030. Along with this population increase, high economic growth and improvement in the Indian people’s standard of living are projected to lead to a rapid increase in future energy demand. The Indian government is expanding investment in both public and private sector power plant development to address this rapid growth in energy demand. The Indian government is also developing and upgrading systems to meet increasing power demand. However, due to problems such as power transmission loss in the grid, service cannot be guaranteed during high demand in some urban areas, and power outages during peak hours occur regularly. In addition, the numerous rural areas without electricity are an issue. • Wind power generation business in India We are developing and operating a wind power business in India in collaboration with an Indian infrastructure development and investment company, INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING & FINANCIAL SERVICES LIMITED. In October 2019, ORIX acquired all shares of wind power generation subsidiaries and made them wholly owned subsidiaries. This business has developed a total of 23 wind power plants in seven southwestern Indian states that have appropriate wind conditions with a total output of 873.5MW. The generated power is mainly sold to state power companies under a feed-in tariff system, and partially sold to large-scale energy consumers. India pledged at COP 21 (the 21st Conference of the Parties to the Framework Convention on Climate Change) to generate 40% of its total power from sources other than fossil fuels by 2030. To achieve that goal, India is targeting a total output of 100,000MW using solar power by 2022 and total output of 60,000MW using wind power. • Distributed solar power generation business in India In India, we are working on a distributed solar power generation business with the 14 SUN Group, a local mid-sized conglomerate. This involves installing solar power generation equipment on the roofs of buildings or small-scale structures, and the use of the generated electricity by that building or structure. Power generation near sites of electricity demand can limit power transmission loss. Furthermore, electricity from the power company can be used when solar power is insufficient, such as at night or on days with low sunshine. Distributed power generation utilizing sunlight is locally produced and locally consumed, can be installed in small spaces and does not require the costly investment of transmission and distribution infrastructure. This is useful in India where there are many off-grid regions. Based on these advantages compared to the traditional transmission and distribution structure, further demand is expected. Hydropower generation business in Vietnam In Vietnam, demand for power is expected to grow along with the economy. To secure its power supply, the Vietnamese government set a target in 2016 of 7% GDP growth by 2030, formulated its Seventh National Power Development Master Plan to meet the power demand, and is developing new power sources. However, this power development also entails many large-scale coal-fired power generation projects, raising concerns about environmental impact. The Vietnamese government has therefore introduced a feed-in tariff system and other preferential measures to promote the development of renewable energy sources such as solar, wind and biomass. ORIX has a stake in Bitexco Power Corporation (“BPC”), a hydropower generation company in Vietnam. BPC hydropower plants are either in operation or under The Dak Mi 4 Power Station which is owned and construction in 20 locations in Vietnam as of March 2019. The largest player in the operated by BPC hydropower generation business, BPC has a gross power capacity of 895MW. In Vietnam, electricity demand is growing by more than 10% annually on average, and in 2030 the demand is expected to be triple that of 2015. Against this backdrop, the Vietnamese Government has a policy of gradually liberalizing the electricity market in order to meet the strong demand for electricity. ORIX employs its expertise in renewable energy and electric power retailing to continue to promote business in Vietnam. Solar power generation business in the U.S. We collaborate with IGS Solar to install solar panels on the roofs and land of properties including commercial facilities and schools, and then sell the generated electricity to the host. Panels are installed or under construction at 48 properties in eleven states throughout the U.S., with a projected total output of 50,000kW (50MW) as of March 2019. ORIX Corporation USA https://www.orix.com/ Overseas geothermal power generation business Geothermal power development is attracting attention globally—not only in North America and Europe, but also in emerging countries in Asia, Africa, Latin America and elsewhere—as a renewable energy generation method that can provide a long-term, stable power supply that is sustainable, unlike fossil fuels. We are an investor in Ormat Technologies, Inc. (“Ormat”), which runs a geothermal power generation business among other businesses. Ormat is the world’s only vertically integrated geothermal company that engages in the design, manufacture, sales, and installation of geothermal power generation facilities. It also independently carries out geothermal resource development and geothermal power generation. The company’s geothermal power generation facilities The McGinness Hills Complex Power Plant owned have established an installation record with total cumulative output of approximately and operated by Ormat 2,900,000kW (2,900MW) worldwide and hold about 82% of the world’s binary power generation installation capacity, the leading share. In addition, Ormat is developing its business not only in the U.S. but also in Central America and Africa, and has a total generating capacity of 947,000kW (947MW) as of March 2019. Through capital 15 Environment participation, we plan to strategically collaborate with Ormat to promote geothermal power generation businesses in Japan and Asia. Ormat Technologies, Inc. https://www.ormat.com/ Energy-saving Services (ESCO Services) Data Energy-saving services seek to realize energy savings and reductions in CO2 emissions Number of contracts through increased productivity. The services are offered when our customers update Approx. 750 or establish new production facilities in factories and buildings.  (As of March 31, 2019) • Construction service General contractor contract fees Leasing fees, Service fees • Commission fee and sub contractor • Construction service Engineering Customer Leasing contract, ORIX contract company ESCO contract • Outsourcing contract Various • Capital investment • Installation work manufacturers • Maintenance • Maintenance and • Installation work management • Evaluation of effect Maintenance • Subsidy application etc. company Subsidy joint application*1 Grants*2 Subsidiary bodies *1 Cooperation of the customer, who is our joint applicant, is required for application procedures and asset management. *2 This service does not guarantee the attainment of subsidies. We may be required to return the subsidy if we have not complied with the application guidelines.  Because subsidies come from public funds, there are restrictions on property disposition and reporting obligations, and unapproved changes in plans or failure to achieve certain results can lead to demands to return subsidies.  In the case of a joint application, if ORIX returns a subsidy, the customer will be required to pay the amount equivalent to the subsidy returned (unless ORIX is liable for the causes of the return of subsidy). [Examples of Provided Service] Type of Service Description Example of Implementation Energy saving service Provision of productivity improvement and energy Energy saving by updating production equipment for beverages in production facilities saving services for the overall facility mainly through or chemicals and updates for industrial furnaces and injection renewal of the production equipment, which is the molding machines. main energy consuming equipment of the facility. Electrical/ Introduction of co-generation facilities aimed at In addition to introducing high efficient boilers, introducing heat supply service stable procurement of power, business continuity more effective uses of waste heat. plans (BCP), and cost reduction. LNG fuel conversion Conversion of fuels used in factories from heavy oil Reduction of CO2 emissions (example reduction level of about to LNG (liquefied natural gas) with low environmental 10% to 25% after conversion). impact, for the purpose of reducing CO2. Energy saving service Introduction of energy-saving equipment to energyIntroduction of high efficiency utility equipment (air conditioning for factory utilities intensive factories, mainly through updating utilities. equipment, lighting equipment, boilers, etc.) to reduce energy consumption (example reduction of about 10% to 35% after introduction). Energy saving service Introduction of energy-saving equipment tailored to Introduction of high efficiency utility equipment (e.g. air for commercial facilities different types of facilities. conditioning equipment, lighting equipment, refrigeration and office buildings equipment, energy management system (EMS) equipment) (example reduction of about 5% to 35% after introduction). Energy saving service ORIX has been selected as the representative Reduction of energy costs by introducing BEMS, CO 2 for local governments business entity of various municipalities’ ESCO concentration control/fan volume control in air conditioning units, projects introducing various energy-saving facilities high efficiency lighting equipment, filtration system controls, etc. tailored to different types of facilities. (example reduction rate of about 10% to 15% after introduction). 16  ale and Lease/Rental of Solar Panels, Electricity Storage S Systems and Other Products ONE Energy conducts wholesaling, leasing, rental and other services for solar panels and electricity storage systems. The combined use of solar panels and electricity storage systems allows customers to save electricity generated by solar power for private use, sell surplus electricity, and prepare for power outages. It can also help mitigate the risk of higher electricity fees resulting from increases in surcharges for renewable energy.* * Renewable energy power promotion surcharge ONE Energy Corporation https://oneenergy.co.jp/ (Japanese only) Initiatives for Establishing Distributed Energy Networks The growing use of renewable power generation is moving the supply of energy from centralized supply by large-scale power plants to distributed supply by smallerscale, regionally dispersed power plants that supply power to nearby areas. This shift is gaining traction globally, and a shift to distributed energy is also expected in Japan, where the Great East Japan Earthquake highlighted energy supply limitations and the weaknesses of the conventional centralized energy supply system. The advantage of decentralization is that it helps to disperse energy supply risks and reduce CO2 emissions by optimally combining various supply capabilities (e.g., renewable energy, cogeneration) based on regional characteristics. In addition, through the use of distributed energy, consumers who had previously been exclusively users of energy can now become suppliers of energy, making the energy supply and demand structure more flexible. ORIX already owns power supply facilities that contribute to a distributed energy network spanning over 600 locations throughout Japan, including renewable energy power plants such as solar (mega solar and rooftop), wind power and biomass. We have also installed approximately 10,000 residential-use stationary storage batteries and provide residential solar power generation equipment. We expect the power supply facilities we own and services we provide to contribute to the stability of the expanding distributed energy network. In addition, we will explore the development of electric vehicles that can serve as a new power source and medium and large stationary storage batteries. As the owner of distributed power generation and supply assets and resources that support the efficient consumption of electricity and the stable use of new energy-producing resources, ORIX will continue to be a major player in establishing distributed energy supply networks. Environment and Energy Business: Environmental Business In our environmental business, we expect the transition to a circular economy and “stock-based society” (a society that emphasizes long-term use of assets rather than short-term use) will re-invigorate the waste processing and recycling industry. Consequently, we will strengthen our existing integrated value chain from collection and transportation to intermediate processing and final disposal by expanding processing facilities at final disposal sites to address the expected increase in intake volume. In the general waste market, which has high entry barriers due to waste regulations, we are planning to construct a new biogas power plant mainly for processing food waste, wastepaper and other business-related general waste. It is scheduled to come online during the fiscal year ending March 2022. In addition, we aim to enter the business of Yorii Plant, ORIX Environmental Resources recycling incombustible waste for local governments with the objective of receiving Management Corporation 17 Environment orders to process waste in lieu of municipal recycling centers. Our facilities would also double as centers for receiving large amounts of waste in the event of a disaster. ORIX’s waste treatment and recycling businesses are as follows. Waste Recycling and Disposal Support Business In Yorii, Saitama Prefecture, ORIX Environmental Resources Management operates Data a zero emission facility* (Yorii Plant) that uses cutting-edge thermal decomposition, Amount processed: gasification and reforming methods as a private finance initiative in Saitama Prefecture. Approximately 120,000 tons The main feature of the facility is that it achieves a 100% recycling rate by reducing  (Fiscal year ended March 2019) waste to reusable resources through the process of melting or gasifying waste at Materials processed: approximately 2,000°C. It is capable of processing 450 tons of waste per day, making it Approximately 70% industrial waste and one of the largest private-sector incineration and melting facilities in Japan. 30% general waste The waste passes through various processes for reuse as resources such as material  (Fiscal year ended March 2019) for asphalt paving (slag) and a road de-icing agent (industrial salts). The purified syngas produced during melting is used to fuel a high-efficiency power generator at an on-site Types of resources reclaimed from waste: power generation facility, and surplus electricity is sold to a power company. slag, metal, metal hydroxide, industrial salt, sulfur, purified syngas, electricity Zeeklite Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of ORIX Environmental Resources Management, operates one of the largest controlled landfills in Japan. ORIX Environmental Resources Management has thus established an organization that provides final disposal in addition to waste incineration and melting to address a wide range of corporate and local government waste requirements. * A facility that achieves zero waste emissions by breaking down waste into raw materials and effectively using them. ORIX Environmental Resources Management Corporation https://www.orix.co.jp/resource/ (Japanese only)  Support for Reuse, Recycling and Proper Disposal of Unwanted Goods (Nationwide Recycling System) ORIX Eco Services has built a Japan-wide network for integrated support for the collection, reuse, recycling, and proper disposal of unwanted goods. The company supports the processing of unwanted goods with locations throughout Japan by centrally managing selection of disposal companies and allocation of their vehicles, price assessment upon sale, cost reduction proposals, and administrative work related to proper disposal. This support helps ensure uniform quality of collection and recycling nationwide as well as preventing improper disposal. We meet diverse customer needs with a network for proper disposal that includes companies involved in collection and transportation, sale of used products, intermediate disposal and recycling. Metal Recycling (In-House Disposal Facilities) ORIX Eco Services operates intermediate disposal facilities in Funabashi, Chiba Prefecture and Kasukabe, Saitama Prefecture that mainly handle metal waste such as machinery and office automation (“OA”) equipment. The company sorts high-quality metals from machinery and other waste composed of multiple metals by conducting all stages of disposal from collection and storage to primary processing and material recycling. For machinery that contains rare metals, such as OA and information technology equipment, the company conducts all stages of processing from disassembly and data erasure to breaking down into raw materials, as well as sorting of materials for recycling. ORIX Eco Services Corporation https://www.orix.co.jp/eco/ (Japanese only) 18 Providing Products and Services with Outstanding Environmental Performance Introduction of Electric and Hybrid Vehicles in Our Car Rental and Car Sharing Businesses ORIX Auto promotes the development of a sharing economy through the operation of car rental and car sharing businesses at approximately 2,800 locations nationwide. Of the approximately 71,000 vehicles under our management, we have introduced approximately 10,500 electric or hybrid vehicles (as of March 31, 2019). We provide customers with vehicles that offer superior environmental performance. Telematics Service In ORIX Auto’s “e-Telematics” service, an onboard device with communication and Environmental Benefits of e-Telematics GPS functions, is installed in customer vehicles to visualize their operating status. The onboard device collects information in real time on driver behavior, including driving 387.7 speed and rapid acceleration or deceleration as well as data such as fuel consumption 384.5 and CO 2 emissions. The service then analyzes this driving data to reduce the 5.3% environmental load from vehicle use. reduction Specifically, an email is set to a designated recipient upon the occurrence of unsafe driving behavior, such as excessive speed or rapid acceleration or deceleration. Drivers will therefore want to drive more carefully to avoid receiving such emails, leading to 12.1 12.0% safe, environmentally sound driving that reduces fuel costs, improves fuel economy increase and reduces CO2 emissions. 11.4 367.1 GPS satellite 10.8 Transmission of email Introduction 1st year 2nd year notification of unsafe driving behavior CO2 emissions per vehicle (kg-CO2) Average fuel efficiency (km/L) Transmission of vehicle Operation management Effectiveness operation data using data provided evaluation using data Data communication line Number of vehicles with e-Telematics and e-Telematics PRO: 161,000 (As of March 31, 2019) Consulting Installation of System server Telematics ORIX Auto onboard device website Real Estate Development Business ORIX’s real estate business segment conducts real estate development and offers buildings with high environmental performance. The buildings and logistics facilities that ORIX has developed have earned high praise for environmental performance and acquired certifications such as LEED*1 and CASBEE.*2 Completed in September 2016, the ORIX Ueno 1-chome Building is conveniently located near six different train stations with access to six different train lines all within a walking distance of six minutes. In addition to creating a friendly working environment, we are committed to environmental performance and business continuity planning, and the property has acquired LEED and CASBEE certifications. The building is an office space that encourages innovation by offering a rooftop garden where workers can enjoy verdant greenery and a nice view. It also has parking and a shower room for bicycle commuters. ORIX Ueno 1-chome Building (Taito-ku, Tokyo) *1 An environmental performance index developed by the U.S. Green Building Council. It aims to promote the global development of sustainable buildings with excellent energy efficiency. “LEED-CS” has five environmental 19 Environment categories and two bonus categories consisting of approximately 50 evaluation criteria. The evaluation is based on the total value of each index. *2 Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency: An evaluation system in Japan that evaluates and ranks the environmental performance of buildings. The comprehensive evaluation includes criteria on usage of environmentally friendly equipment and materials, energy saving efforts, provision of a comfortable indoor environment and consideration for the surrounding area. The buildings are given an overall rank ranging from S, A, B+, Band C. For information on our other properties, please refer to the ORIX website. https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/three_r/ ORIX Real Estate Corporation https://www.orix-realestate.co.jp (Japanese only) DAIKYO and ANABUKI CONSTRUCTION are proactively promoting the creation of environmentally friendly homes, with the aim of realizing comfortable, healthy lives and a low-carbon society. In its Strategic Energy Plan, the Government of Japan has set a policy goal of achieving ZEH (defined below) for more than half of the new, builtto-order stand-alone houses constructed by 2020 and ZEH (on an average basis) for all newly constructed houses, including ready-built houses and multiple-dwelling houses, by 2030. ZEH is an acronym for a net zero energy house, meaning a house that aims to reduce its balance of annual energy consumption to zero or less by means of energy savings through the introduction of high-performance insulation materials and energy efficient equipment, as well as energy creation from electricity generation using solar power or other methods. DAIKYO obtained Japan’s first “Nearly ZEH-M*1” certification for Lions Ashiya Grandfort, a pioneer among ZEH condominiums that was completed in May 2019. The property reduces primary energy consumption*2 by 32% as a result of energy savings from improved insulation performance and high-efficiency power generation using a next-generation fuel cell (ENE-FARM). By using solar power to generate 48% of its primary energy consumption, it achieves a reduction of more than 80% of primary energy consumption through energy savings and energy creation. In addition, ten DAIKYO and ANABUKI CONSTRUCTION projects were selected in September 2018 for the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry’s Fiscal 2018 High-Rise ZEH-M Demonstration Project, the first open solicitation for proof-of-concept condominium projects that promote ZEH. In addition, 11 properties were selected for the Ministry of the Environment’s Fiscal 2019 High-Rise ZEH-M Support Project. All the selected properties are condominiums that adopt “ZEH-M Oriented” standards to maintain a comfortable indoor environment by significantly improving insulation performance and introducing more efficient facilities and systems while reducing the annual primary energy consumption of the entire building, including common areas, by 20% or more. Lions Ashiya Grandfort (Ashiya, Hyogo) *1 Nearly Zero Energy Mansion. A condominium (or mansion, as called in Japan) that complies with Nearly ZEH-M guidelines and achieves a reduction of 75% or more in primary energy consumption through energy savings and energy creation. *2 Energy consumption across different functions as calculated through thermal conversion of HVAC equipment, hot water heaters, lighting and other equipment through both the construction and use phase of the building. ZEH initiatives (Lions Mansion website) https://lions-mansion.jp/areaspecial/zeh_m/ (Japanese only) DAIKYO corporate website https://www.daikyo.co.jp/english/index.html ZEH-M Conceptual Diagram ZEH-M (ZEH Mansion) is a framework for achieving zero net energy consumption in buildings through improvement of insulation performance, introduction of more efficient facilities and systems, and installation of renewable energy equipment. Minimize use of energy Efficient use of energy Generation of energy Improvement of Introduction of more Installation of renewable insulation performance efficient facilities and systems energy equipment Net energy Energy consumption Heating consumption Air conditioning Ventilation Heating Reduced by 20 % or more ≤0 Air conditioning Lighting Ventilation Lighting High thermal insulation Hot-water supply Hot-water supply Source: Agency for Natural Resources and Energy, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (ZEH Roadmap Examination Committee for Condominiums) Reduction of Environmental Impact in Business Processes ORIX is working to reduce the environmental impact of its business processes. Please refer to the link below for specific initiatives. https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/environment/business_processes.html 20 Environmental Performance Data ORIX Group CO2 Emission Reduction Contribution (Unit: t-CO2) Total 2,602,400 Solar Power Generation 503,900 Biomass Power Generation 43,000 Total 1,836,800 Wind Power Generation Solar Power Generation 739,900 428,700 Biomass Power Total 1,393,500 Generation 46,000 Solar Power Generation Biomass Power Biomass Power 346,900 Generation Generation Wind Power Generation 48,800 Total 969,600 47,800 573,100 Solar Power Generation 177,600 Geothermal Power Generation Wind Power Generation 1,055,300 ESCO Services ESCO Services ESCO Services 600,900 ESCO Services 67,000 93,700 49,500 Geothermal Power 93,500 Electricity Supply Generation 565,400 544,700 Other Environment Other Environment Other Environment Other Environment and Energy Business Electricity Supply and Energy Business and Energy Business and Energy Business 190,000 800 300 700 3,400 Other Business Other Business Other Business Other Business Automobile Business Automobile Business 10,300 Automobile Business 7,700 Automobile Business 10,300 10,100 114,800 130,300 142,200 155,700 FY2016.3 FY2017.3 FY2018.3 FY2019.3 Environment and Energy Business Automobile Business • Solar Power Generation • Geothermal Power Generation Other Business Reduction calculated from sales of power generated from mega-solar Reduction calculated from sales of power generated from geothermal power plants and rooftop solar power • Electricity Supply • Biomass Power Generation CO2 emissions reductions through acquisition of rights to CO2 emission reductions from Reduction calculated from sales of power generated from wood overseas or other companies chip-fired thermal power stations • ESCO* Services • Wind Power Generation Providing ESCO Services reduces CO2 in conjunction with customers’ reduced energy use Reduction calculated from sales of power generated from wind power *Energy Service Company plants [Scope and Concept] Calculation Period: From April 1 to March 31 each fiscal year Calculation Scope: ORIX Group Companies both in Japan and overseas (including affiliated companies) Basic Concept: • Calculations are performed by multiplying the reduced amount of activity among customers or society as a whole due to ORIX Group’s business activities by a CO2 emission factor. • For calculation of business activities in Japan, in principle the emission factor we use is alternate value under the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System (Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures) (FY2016.3: 0.000579t-CO2/kWh, FY2017.3: 0.000587t-CO2/kWh, FY2018.3: 0.000512t-CO2/kWh, FY2019.3: 0.000500t-CO2/kWh). • For calculation of overseas business activities, in principle we use the emission factors from each country. • Calculations also include CO2 reduction credits redeemed during the calculation period after being acquired by ORIX Group. • We calculate CO2 reduction from affiliated companies according to our shareholding. 21 ORIX Group CO2 Emissions (Unit: t-CO2) Scope 1 & 2 Total 1,053,814 *689,232 t-CO2 Scope 1 emission from coal-biomass co-fired power plants 907,345 Scope 1 & 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 Total 404,220 384,251 392,711 235,780 225,599 235,249 168,441 158,652 157,463 146,469 3,000 2,800 2,900 3,000 FY2016.3 FY2017.3 FY2018.3 FY2019.3 Scope 1 (Volume of direct emissions) Scope 2 (Volume of indirect emissions from energy use) Scope 3 (Volume of other indirect emissions) Combustion of fuels including crude oil, diesel, Use of electricity, steam, thermal heated/cooled water Downstream transportation and distribution gasoline, city gas, coal, biomass and waste (Emissions related to transportation by ORIX Rentec’s rental equipment) Items subject to third-party assurance [Scope and Method] Calculation Period: From April 1 to March 31 each fiscal year Calculation Scope: Consolidated ORIX Group companies in Japan (excluding investees in principal investment business) Calculation Method: • CO2 emissions are calculated based on the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions Associated with Business Activities of Specified Emitters. • Calculated based on company rules concerning the management of environmental information. • CO2 emissions include CO2 from non-energy sources, methane (CH4), and dinitrogen monoxide (N2O). • Effective emission factor of electric power supplier based on GHG Emissions Accounting, Reporting, and Disclosure System is used for the emission factor relating to the use of electricity. *689,232 t-CO2 Scope 1 emission from coal-biomass co-fired power plants ORIX operates two coal-biomass co-fired power plants in Japan. One is Soma Coal and Biomass Power Plant in Soma City, Fukushima Prefecture, which started operations in April 2018. The other is Hibikinada Coal and Biomass Power Plant in Kitakyushu City, Fukuoka Prefecture, which started operations in December 2018. Maximum output of each power plant is 112MW. At these two plants, biomass is mixed with coal to account for about 30% of the total amount of fuel. This helps reduce CO2 emissions compared with emissions from coalfired power plants in the same class and contributes to lessening the burden on the environment while at the same time providing a stable, reliable supply of electricity. Third-Party Assurance ORIX receives third-party assurance of its figures for direct emissions and indirect emissions from energy use from PricewaterhouseCoopers Sustainability LLC. See the website below for details. https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/environment/data.html 22 Social Relationship with Employees ORIX’s Human Resource Strategies Maximizing the Capabilities and Expertise of Our Employees under the Concept of “Keep Mixed” People are ORIX’s most important asset. Based on our concept of “Keep Mixed,” we hire diverse human resources regardless of nationality, age, gender or work history, integrating their diverse values and expertise with the aim of a Fusion of Intelligence to create new value and workplaces that maximize the capabilities and expertise of our employees. Speciﬁcally, we create fulﬁlling workplaces by establishing a working environment that respects diverse working styles and reforming our human resource system ahead of the pack instead of just reacting to current social conventions. Moreover, we are enhancing training to offer opportunities for employees who embrace challenges and to enable employees to excel internationally. Diverse Human Resources Workplaces That Offer Value Keep Mixed Academic Management That Makes Nationality Background Creating New the Most of Individuality Value from Fusion of Work-Life Age Gender Career Self-Fulfillment Intelligence Balance Ideal Characteristics Creativity: Proactively creating new businesses ORIX intends to contribute to society through its businesses. In sensing society’s needs and consistently seeking out new businesses, our diverse employees pool their wisdom to provide innovative products and services. To remain a company that is essential to society, we look for employees with the flexibility and creativity to proactively create new opportunities and businesses. Challenge: Taking on new challenges and acquiring a high level of expertise To create new businesses, we believe that our employees must have a positive attitude about taking on new challenges without fear of failure. Because our sphere of activity requires various types of specialized competence, we seek out employees who regularly take on new challenges as they acquire a high level of expertise throughout their careers. Teamwork: Respecting diversity and actively driving collaboration ORIX has expanded its operations by emphasizing teamwork and pooling the wisdom of its various business divisions with their wide-ranging expertise. Therefore, we look for employees who display teamwork that respects diversity and actively drives collaboration. * For purposes of the discussion related to human resources, information on pages 24 to 32 shall pertain to ORIX Corporation and Group companies in Japan unless specified otherwise. 23 Initiatives to Realize Our “Keep Mixed” Concept ORIX promotes diversity and inclusion and the creation of workplaces that offer value for all employees to realize its concept of “Keep Mixed.” Promoting Diversity and Inclusion We believe it is essential that the knowledge and experience acquired by employees be passed on to the next generations. However, with the changing social environment such as retirement age extensions, increase in dual-income households and the enforcement of the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, the need for a wider array of working styles is increasing. We strive to promote diversity and inclusion by creating a workplace that is optimal for the performance of individuals with different capabilities and expertise and one that accommodates different life events and working styles. Promoting the participation and advancement of women in the workplace ORIX was one of the earliest promoters of women’s participation in the workplace. We started recruiting female university graduates for comprehensive work positions* in 1982, before the enforcement of the Equal Employment Opportunity Law in 1986. We have also expanded our human resources system accordingly, and are actively engaged in not only expanding the system but also in strategically raising awareness about gender equality. To further promote the participation and advancement of women, who account for about 40% of our employees, we have established the following action plan, with targets in areas such as increasing the number of female employees in managerial positions and creating a workplace that allows for advancement while maintaining work-life balance. * In Japan, there are two different tracks to employment: comprehensive and general administrative. Comprehensive track employees work on business matters and are potential managerial candidates. They are expected to take on a variety of roles in a range of business areas, and are therefore subject to transfers and relocations. General administrative employees, on the other hand, mainly provide administrative and clerical support to comprehensive employees. ORIX Corporation’s Action Plan to Promote the Participation and Advancement of Women Increase the 18% ratio of female employees in managerial Target positions (as of March 31, 2014) by 5 percentage points by 2020 (target reached with 23.8% ratio as of March 31, 2019) Secure a constant number of female recruits (Fiscal year ended March 2019: 32 women, 42.6% of total recruits)*1 Formulate a career plan to cultivate female managerial candidates Main Initiatives and conduct seminars and workshops for young employees Implement programs and training to cultivate future female executive candidates Female employees in managerial positions: 23.8% (418 employees) Female employees who are working mothers: 39.9% (634 employees) Achievements*2 Female employees who gave birth in the fiscal year ended March 2018 who took childcare leave*3: 100% (77 employees) Female employees who used the shortened prescribed working hours system: 13.0% (206 employees) *1 Female recruits are the number of new graduates hired between April 1, 2018 and March 31, 2019. *2 Results as of March 31, 2019. *3 Percentage of female employees who gave birth during the fiscal year ended 2018 and took childcare leave during the fiscal year ended March 2019. 24 Promoting the participation and advancement of seniors in the workplace Senior citizens are increasingly motivated to work due to economic reasons such as longer healthy life expectancy and an increase in the age when pension payments start. Moreover, the knowledge and skills that senior employees have cultivated in their work are valuable assets for companies. To create an environment where senior employees can work with a sense of security, ORIX raised the retirement age from 60 to 65 in April 2014. We believe that the continued participation of senior employees with extensive experience and expertise will enhance the company’s organizational strength and vitality. Promoting the employment of people with disabilities ORIX established ORIX Business Support, a special subsidiary, in April 2007 to promote the employment of people with disabilities. Today, two business offices in Tokyo (Tachikawa) and Osaka help promote ORIX’s operational efficiency by undertaking routine tasks outsourced from within ORIX Group companies. As of April 1, 2019, 59 people with disabilities and eight supervisors handle outsourced clerical services including contract book binding, PDF conversion of stored documents, preparation of direct mailing enclosures and data entry, as well as other services such as washing and inspecting car sharing vehicles and office cleaning. Mid-career and non-Japanese recruiting We also focus on recruiting mid-career employees and non-Japanese new graduates to secure diverse human resources aligned with our changing businesses. Since its establishment, ORIX has been active in hiring mid-career employees with job histories in ﬁelds including ﬁnance, manufacturing, consulting, trading, real estate, and services. 67% of employees who joined ORIX in the fiscal year ended March 2019 were midcareer hires. ORIX has been focusing on recruiting students with diverse values since 2016 by hiring new graduates from overseas universities in China, Taiwan and Korea as well as foreign students in Japan. About 10% of the new graduates who enter ORIX each year are non-Japanese. Workplaces That Offer Value We have been conducting various human resource initiatives to realize a workplace environment where employees with diverse values can work healthily with peace of mind and experience fulfillment from being able to fully display their potential. We launched our Work Style Reform Project in 2016 under the direct mandate of the CEO, and we are working to enhance and improve measures to support various working styles and raise employee awareness. Work Style Reform Project members 25 Social Work style reform project In October 2016, we launched the Work Style Reform Project under the direct mandate of the CEO. The project conducts activities to foster a culture that recognizes diverse working styles to realize a highly productive workplace environment. Launch of the Work Style Reform Project and Identification of Employee Needs Fiscal Year Ended March We launched a committee made up of more than 200 2017 employees with hands-on experience from 10 major ORIX Group companies. It considered issues and measures over a period of about half a year and recommended approximately 120 measures to the CEO. A Year of Promoting Work Style Reform Based on the recommendations proposed by the employees during the project, we implemented 80 measures centered on our human resources system in an effort to promote diverse and flexible working styles. We enhanced working Fiscal Year Ended March hour ﬂexibility by establishing a new super ﬂextime system 2018 that eliminated the core working hours of the preceding ﬂextime system, established a system of annual paid leave in one-hour units, and expanded the incentive system to encourage employees to take their vacation days. We also launched an internal intern system to support diverse career perspectives. A Year of Investing to Improve Productivity To increase workplace flexibility and support a variety of working styles, we set up infrastructure to enable work Fiscal Year Ended March outside the office by upgrading our IT equipment and 2019 expanding external satellite offices. At the same time, we launched a system of ﬁnancial support for self-improvement so that employees can effectively use the free time created through the promotion of work style reforms. Employee morale survey ORIX values communication with employees and conducts various initiatives to that end. To obtain data on how employees feel about their daily work for use in future human resource measures, we introduced a survey of employee morale in 2004. Annual surveys since 2016 have targeted employees of our 10 major ORIX Group companies (ORIX, ORIX Rentec, ORIX Auto, ORIX Credit, ORIX Real Estate, ORIX Computer Systems, ORIX Bank, ORIX Life Insurance, ORIX Eco Services and ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services). Results are disclosed internally. All employee responses are anonymous. Results are reported each year to the Group Executive Officer Committee to identify trends in morale at ORIX Group companies and in each division at ORIX Corporation. Employee morale survey results are used as a reference for deciding on human resource measures for the ORIX Group or for verifying the effectiveness of current measures. 26 Human Resources System From early on, ORIX has created a human resources system that is more progressive than legal requirements. We started actively recruiting women from before the enforcement of the Equal Employment Opportunity Law in 1986. By enriching our human resources system to support each employee’s life stage and career, we are promoting the creation of workplaces that are fulfilling, and where employees can fully demonstrate their expertise and abilities. Human Resources System Overview A Human Resources System That Accommodates Different Stages in both Life and Career Many employees use the system to achieve flexible working styles that accommodate stages in both their personal lives and their careers. Join company Marriage Childbirth Childcare Return to work •Reduced-time •Reduced working Childbirth and childcare Support for flexible working styles Nursing* care working system hours for postpartum •Special childcare paid time off •Flextime system •Nursing care leave during pregnancy doctor visits system •Childcare leave (until child is •Super flextime system •Staggered work hours 3 years old) •Nursing care leave during pregnancy •Career select system •Paid parenting time (2 hours a day) system (paid) •Reduced working •Spousal transfer location change system •Reduced working hours during •Reduced working hours hours for prenatal •Spousal relocation leave system for nursing care (hours doctor visits childcare (hours reduced up to 2 hours a day until child completes •Return to work system reduced up to 2 hours elementary school) •System to incentivize employees to take a day) •Child nursing care leave (paid) their vacation days •Babysitter subsidy system •System allowing paid leave to be taken in hourly units instead of whole days •Paid time off for volunteer work •No overtime days Career planning support Career challenge system, Internal job posting system, Internal intern system, Internal career change system, Self-assessment system, Career challenge system from age 45, and Internal job posting system for senior employees * Nursing refers to care for those who are elderly, disabled, or otherwise unable to care for themselves, and is different from routine childcare. For detailed information on our Human Resources System, please refer to the following: Personnel Systems https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/employee/management_systems.html Systems to Support Career Planning • Systems for developing one’s career Internal intern system, self-assessment system • Systems for career advancement Career challenge system, internal job posting system, internal career change system • Systems for encouraging contribution from our senior employees Career challenge system from age 45, internal job posting system for senior employees 27 Social Systems to Support Flexible Working Styles • Systems for working hours Flextime system, super flextime system • Systems for taking leave System allowing paid leave to be taken in hourly units instead of whole days, system to incentivize employees to take their vacation days, paid time off for volunteer work • Systems for supporting continuing careers Career select system, spousal transfer location change system, spousal relocation leave system, return to work system Systems to Support Work-Life Balance (Childbirth/Childcare/Nursing Care) Maternity and childbirth support • Systems for working hours Reduced-time working system during pregnancy, staggered working hours during pregnancy • Systems for outpatient work Reduced working hours for prenatal doctor visits, reduced working hours for postpartum doctor visits Childcare support As shown in the table below, our systems go beyond legal requirements. Scheme Japanese Law ORIX Until the child reaches Until the child reaches 3 years of Childcare leave*1 2 years of age age Paid parenting time*2 1 hour per day (unpaid) 2 hours per day (paid) Reduced working Until graduation from elementary Under 3 years old hours during childcare school Child nursing care leave 5 days per year, 10 days per year for 5 days per year (unpaid) (paid) parents with 2 or more children (paid) Babysitter subsidy system until Other — graduation from elementary school Special childcare paid time off *1 The period of childcare leave to be taken is limited to 5 years in total. The period of childcare leave in excess of this limit is determined by law. *2 Paid parenting time is available to employees who return to work before the child reaches the age of 1. Nursing care support As shown in the table below, our systems go beyond legal requirements. Scheme Japanese Law ORIX Nursing care leave 93 days 6 months system 5 days per year, 10 days per year Nursing care leave — for employees with 2 or more family system (paid) members who require care (paid) Maximum 2 hours per day*, up to Reduced working hours — 3 years per family member who for nursing care requires care * Limited to 1 hour per day when taken concurrently with paid parenting time. 28 Human Resource Development In a dramatically changing business environment, we have established various training systems so that each ORIX employee can fully demonstrate his or her individual capabilities. Training System (ORIX Corporation, as of September 30, 2019) Support for Enhancing management skills Career support self-development Purpose of Global talent/ Work-life Optional Employee management & organizational development skills Diversity promotion training Next generation development balance support training OrganiPromoting Promoting Job level-specific zationSelective Seminars participation participation Job postings specific by women by seniors Training for senior employees Career interview Selective training programs Managers For new section leaders Social gatherings for employees before maternity leave and during childcare leave and above • Training for new Selective training Study group for Mentoring program appointee assessors for managers female managers in • Management skill reinforcement training • Follow-up training different industries Corporate philosophy/brand program Training for mid-career hires Childcare seminar for couples Division-specific training Nursing care seminar Compliance training TOEIC exam Assistant Selective career Global trainee system Manager Training for new Global human resource (Global responsiveness, new business creation, interpersonal relationship skills, business execution skills) design training (6+ years) assistant managers development program Development stage Mid-level (4-5 years) Training to reinforce basic knowledge Young global human resource Women’s forum development program for young 3rd year training (accounting, tax, legal training) employees Language skills Entry-level Follow-up training program (1-3 years) for new recruits 3rd year overseas Training for new recruits subsidiary secondment program Pre-entry training Pre-entry for job offerees For detailed information on Human Resource Development, please refer to the following: Human Resource Development System https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/employee/development.html 29 Social Enhancing Management Skills Employee management and organizational development skills training To develop young employees, we conduct job level-specific training starting with new employees and follow-up training for new recruits, third-year training, and training for new assistant managers. The training is designed as an opportunity to look back on the trainee’s experience at each point in order to delineate a vision for the future. We also conduct position-specific training at the management level for employee management and organizational development. Global talent/Next generation development training In the fiscal year ended March 2012, we established a global human resource development system to strategically develop employees who can act on a global stage. Initiatives for young and mid-career employees include secondment to overseas subsidiaries and educational programs for acquiring global communication skills. Career Support Individuals are increasingly required to make career-related choices due to changing social conditions and events in their personal lives. In addition to enhancing our human resources system, we provide support for each employee to think and act independently. Work-life balance support (childbirth, childcare, nursing care) seminars In addition to providing support through its human resources system, ORIX works to prevent job turnover due to childcare and nursing care issues by holding career design seminars on work-life balance so that employees can obtain knowhow and advice on preparation from senior employees and acquire the knowledge required to continue working. Diversity promotion • For female employees To allow female employees to fully demonstrate their individual abilities, we provide training to support them in planning their own careers and promote the further participation and advancement of women in the workplace. • For senior employees In the belief that the participation of senior employees with extensive experience and expertise, regardless of their age, will enhance the organizational strength and vitality of the company, ORIX conducts career interviews with employees at age 50 and promotes the participation and advancement of senior employees in the workplace. Support for Self-Development We encourage self-motivated employees to further develop the skills and knowledge necessary for work through various self-development support programs such as financial support for attending graduate school and one-time allowances upon acquiring qualifications recognized by ORIX. We also invite lecturers from outside ORIX to present a wide range of programs on topics such as logical thinking, financial knowledge, marketing and strategic planning. 30 Occupational Safety and Health At ORIX, each employee is a valuable asset. Our Group companies and health insurance associations work together to promote initiatives aimed at improving the safety and health of employees and so that they can fully demonstrate their abilities as they continue working with enthusiasm for many years, healthy in both mind and body. Specifically, based on the characteristics of each Group company, we implement various measures to promote health under the themes of early detection for early treatment, prevention of disease progression, and lifestyle-related disease prevention for the young. For safety, we support the participation and advancement of diverse human resources in areas including management of safe driving and creation of a disaster response manual. Employee Health Management • Occupational physicians, public health nurses and nutritionists are stationed in the workplace for employees to consult with on health-related concerns and issues. • External expert staff also offer phone consultations (24/7, toll-free) on questions regarding health issues, medical care and nursing care. • For employees under the age of 35, regular health checkups are carried out once a year. In addition, a subsidy system for additional checkup expenses such as various cancer screenings and brain examinations is also available. • It is compulsory for employees aged 35 and older to undergo a thorough medical checkup every year. Most expenses are subsidized, reducing the burden on employees and therefore eliminating an obstacle to receiving a health checkup. This leads to early detection of disease and prevention of progression. We also assist with expenses for optional examinations such as cervical cancer screenings, breast cancer screenings and brain examinations. Mental Health • We set up consultation days with occupational physicians, public health nurses, psychiatrists, and counselors, for employees to receive counseling on mental health issues or recommendations for clinics. We have also established a system for consultation on work leave and work reinstatement. • W ith the enforcement of the Industrial Safety and Health Act, as amended, we conduct stress checks and work proactively to create vibrant and fulfilling workplaces. Efforts to Improve Health • In addition to distributing an e-newsletter on health, we conduct awareness-raising activities on subjects such as quitting smoking, physical fitness tests, women’s health, and a breast cancer self-exam class. • To refresh the mind and body, we have recreation facilities that we directly manage and that are available under contract for employees and their families to use. We operate directly managed recreation centers in three locations in Japan (Karuizawa, Nagano Prefecture; Arashiyama, Kyoto Prefecture; and Kashikojima, Mie Prefecture). 31 Social Ensuring the Safety of Sales Vehicles ORIX is introducing sales vehicles with a collision prevention function to reduce accidents. We have also introduced the telematics service* provided by ORIX Auto in our sales vehicles. This service checks driving performance history including sudden acceleration or braking, long-term idling and other factors. We provide individual guidance on a monthly basis to employees who exceed a threshold level as well as employees responsible for managing safe driving. In addition, employees who have had an accident as well as new employees and employees whose jobs involve driving are required to attend lectures at a driving school. * An on-board vehicle service equipped with communication and GPS functions that can easily obtain data on vehicle operation status, which can then be used to set compliance, environment and safety targets for driving management and to improve or resolve important issues. Disaster Management We have created our Basic Disaster Risk Management Rules and a handbook for responding to disasters. In principle, we confirm employee safety when an earthquake with an intensity of five or higher on the Japan Meteorological Agency seismic intensity scale occurs in a prefecture where employees work or live. We carry out safety confirmation drills for that purpose multiple times a year. We use a dedicated system to conduct safety confirmation and prepare for emergencies for all Group employees. If the Tokyo metropolitan area is affected and the functions of the Tokyo Headquarters are impaired, a disaster response headquarters will be set up at the Osaka Headquarters. In preparation, we conduct drills for setting up a disaster response headquarters and for collecting information. ORIX stocks enough food and drinking water for three days per employee at key domestic workplaces. 32 Personnel-Related Data Employee Composition: 32,411 employees (As of March 31, 2019) By Region By Segment By Gender Corporate Financial Services 7% Maintenance Leasing 9% Corporate 6% Female employees Outside of Outside of Japan 37% Japan 7,776 employees Overseas 8% 24% Business Japan Japan 24% 29% 47% Japan 24,635 Real Estate employees 31% Retail 76% Outside of 10% Japan Investment Male and Operation 16% employees 12% 63% Composition of Executives and Employees (Fiscal year ended March 2019) Average Age Average Years of Service Annual Paid Leave Taken Overall 42.9 years old Overall 15.5 years Average days of paid leave taken 14.0 days Men 44.6 years old Men 15.8 years Average percentage of days taken 83.3% Women 40.7 years old Women 15.0 years out of days earned Note: Average age, average years of service, and average annual paid leave taken are for ORIX Corporation employees only. Directors and Executive Officers are not included. Female Employees in Managerial Positions Female Employees in Managerial Positions*1 (%)*2 Number of New Employees and Percentages of Mid-Career and Female Recruits as Part of Overall New Employees (ORIX Group*3) 78% 23.8% 70% (418 employees) 67% 15.5% 52% 52% (187 employees) 49% 20.6% 842 (707 employees) 733 710 304 291 248 11.6% (295 employees) 263 248 282 137 68 123 92 91 138 March 31, 2009 March 31, 2019 (Fiscal Year) March 2017 March 2018 March 2019 (Fiscal Year) ORIX Corporation ORIX Group* 3 Male new graduate recruits Female new graduate recruits Male mid-career recruits Female mid-career recruits Percentage of mid-career recruits Percentage of female recruits as part of overall new recruits as part of overall new recruits *1 Managerial positions are section leaders and other positions with work and responsibilities equivalent to section leader or above, regardless of job title or subordinate staff (does not include entry-level managers). *2 The percentages in “Female Employees in Managerial Positions” represent the ratio of female managers to the total number of managers. *3 Total of 10 ORIX Group companies: ORIX, ORIX Rentec, ORIX Auto, ORIX Credit, ORIX Real Estate, ORIX Computer Systems, ORIX Bank, ORIX Life Insurance, ORIX Eco Services and ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services. Total number of employees at these 10 companies as of March 31, 2019 was 10,216, which was 32% of all employees. 33 Use of Childbirth and Childcare-Related Systems 11.1% 6.3% 33.4% 494 1,492 281 4.3% 168 15.3% 3.7% 597 145 Increase of approx. 2.5 times Increase of approx. 1.7 times Increase of approx. 3.4 times March 31, 2009 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2009 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2009 March 31, 2019 Number of working mothers Number of employees who have taken childcare leave Number of employees who have used the shortened Percentage of female employees who are Percentage of female employees who have taken prescribed working hours system working mothers childcare leave Percentage of female employees who have used the shortened prescribed working hours system Note: T  he information given in the tables above relates to full-time female employees of 10 ORIX Group companies (ORIX, ORIX Rentec, ORIX Auto, ORIX Credit, ORIX Real Estate, ORIX Computer Systems, ORIX Bank, ORIX Life Insurance, ORIX Eco Services and ORIX Asset Management & Loan Services). External Recognition “Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization 2019,” Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry On February 21, 2019, ORIX Corporation was named a “White* 500 (Large Enterprise Category)” company in the “Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization Recognition Program” for 2019. This certification recognizes corporations that value their employees’ health and strategically work to promote health from a management perspective. ORIX has been certified as a “White 500 (Large Enterprise Category)” company for three consecutive years since the certification’s start in 2017. * In Japan, an employer with a bad track record regarding working conditions and employee rights is labeled “black.” The “white” label is used in contrast to the “black” label. There is no intended racial connotation to these labels. “Semi-Nadeshiko Brand,” Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Tokyo Stock Exchange ORIX Corporation was selected as a “Semi-Nadeshiko Brand” on March 22, 2019. This is the category just below the “Nadeshiko Brand” category. Companies are selected from among approximately 3,600 listed companies for their encouragement of women’s success in the workplace as part of their efforts to increase their midto long-term corporate value. “Eruboshi (highest level)” Certification from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare On May 27, 2019, ORIX Corporation obtained the highest level “Eruboshi (Grand 3)” company certification based on the Act on Promotion of Woman’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. The “Eruboshi” company certification is granted to companies with a high level of implementation of activities related to the promotion of women’s success. Companies that meet all five criteria in the areas of recruitment, 最小サイズ ヨコ 12.8 ミリまで continued employment, working hours, proportion of women in managerial positions and diversified career courses are selected for Grand 3. 34 Human Rights Our Approach to Human Rights ORIX believes that corporate responsibility should be part of everything that ORIX does and part of such corporate responsibility is the duty to integrate human rights considerations into business operations, including by assessing potential modern slavery risks that various industries may face. ORIX has identified existing measures that mitigate the risk of modern slavery in its business and supply chain, such as its anti-corruption and anti-money laundering policies, and has implemented our ORIX Human Rights Policy, which details its commitment to promoting respect for human rights of employees and responding to known cases where human rights are negatively affected by its suppliers. In addition, ORIX has worked with third parties and used screening services to analyze the risk profiles of its various businesses in order to understand the overall risk profile of ORIX. ORIX Human Rights Policy https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/rights/policy.html Our Response to the UK Modern Slavery Act The Modern Slavery Act 2015 (“MSA”) is a U.K. law designed to help combat modern slavery and human trafficking. The MSA requires businesses that carry on a business or part of a business in any part of the U.K. and have global turnover of at least £36 million to produce a slavery and human trafficking statement each financial year setting out the steps the businesses have taken to ensure that their business and supply chains are slavery free, or a statement that they have taken no steps to do this. ORIX Corporation is within the scope of the MSA due to the fact that it carries on business in the U.K. in conjunction with its subsidiary, ORIX Corporation UK Limited. MSA Statement for the 2019 Fiscal Year https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/rights/msa.html Contributing to Society through Our Businesses Aging Society/Achieving Secure and Healthy Lifestyles Measures to create a society where elderly people can lead secure lives is an important issue in Japan’s aging society. ORIX helps resolve issues faced by aging society through its auto business, retail financial services and other operations. Moreover, the declining birthrate and aging population have raised concerns about maintaining the social security system in Japan. Through its life insurance and preventive medicine support businesses, ORIX offers products and services to prepare for uncertainties related to finances and health, helping people achieve secure and healthy lifestyles. 35 Social Telematics service (monitoring service for elderly drivers) Monitoring Service for Elderly Drivers ORIX Auto launched Ever Drive in February 2017. This driving monitoring service GPS satellite uses telematics technology to reduce accident risk for families with elderly drivers. The proportion of elderly people involved in fatal accidents has been increasing year by year. The goal of this service is to identify the signs of dangerous driving by visualizing the driving of seniors. The service uses a specialized device mounted in the Send driving data from vehicle of the driver the family wishes to monitor. It provides the family with real-time a dedicated device information on driving behavior, including excessive speed and sudden acceleration and braking. In the future, we intend to analyze various data we accumulate to develop services that help prevent accidents involving elderly drivers. We will also share big System server data collected via our e-Telematics and Ever Drive services with local governments, police, universities and research institutes, hospitals and nursing care facilities to help achieve an accident-free motorized society. Family Trust Support Service : Preparing for dementia In Japan, greater longevity has also brought about an “aging” of financial assets, as Receive driving behavior Confirm driving data the proportion of personal assets held by the elderly continues to grow. At the same data by e-mail time, indications are that by 2025, one in five people aged 65 years and older will develop dementia,* and creating measures to maintain and manage an individual’s property in the face of declining cognitive function has become a major issue. ORIX Bank’s Family Trust Support Service provides support for the establishment of family trusts, in preparation for a decline in competency due to dementia or Elderly driver other conditions, and a resulting loss in decision-making abilities. ORIX Bank meets customers to listen to their concerns about asset management and asset succession, and suggests plans tailored to individual customer needs. Monitoring by family members *Source: Cabinet Office, Annual Report on the Aging Society, 2017 A life insurance business that addresses diverse needs ORIX Life Insurance has assembled a wide-ranging product lineup through its efforts to research and develop new products to offer the best insurance tailored to customer needs. Its products have earned a strong reputation among insurance professionals outside the company for being simple and easy to understand, as well as for having extensive insurance benefits at affordable premiums. Preventive medicine support business As Japan’s first medical mobile service company, FREEILL provides a wide range of regional medical services by offering rental services for vehicles equipped with an advanced diagnostic imaging system that includes MRI and CT scanners. Rentals are available for a minimum of two hours with the necessary technical support (photography by a technician/analysis by a radiologist) according to the requirements of the place, time and duration. Businesses and local governments can thus provide brain and lung checkups and other exams by making rounds among designated locations. This not only improves the examination rate but also reduces costs through the benefits of scale from assembling examinees at places along the circuit. With the growing shift in awareness from treatment to prevention in order to Vehicle equipped with an MRI machine reduce medical expenses, companies and health insurance associations can avail themselves of our mobile services with health exam functions to meet corporate health management needs. 36 Regional Revitalization ORIX contributes to the revitalization of local communities through its concession business, operation of Japanese inns and other businesses. In airport operation, which is one of our concession businesses, we work with local companies and governments to increase demand for business travel and tourism. In operating Japanese inns, particularly our restoration of historic inns in various areas, we emphasize retaining local employees and work to create attractive facilities that help increase the number of tourists. Concession business In the concession business, private enterprises are responsible for the operation of public facilities such as airports, roads, water supply and sewage systems while public entities retain ownership. The Japanese government is promoting concessions to revitalize the economy and enhance fiscal soundness, and ORIX is proactively addressing Japan’s social issues of aging infrastructure and population decline. In April 2016, ORIX started operating Kansai International Airport and Osaka International Airport (Itami Airport) as the first privately owned full-scale operation of airports in Japan, and has also been operating Kobe Airport since April 2018. Enhancements at the airport and attractions in the vicinity will be necessary to increase the number of routes and passengers. We continuously strive to enhance Kansai International Airport airport facilities and work with local companies and local governments to increase demand for business travel and tourism. Operation of Japanese inns Since entering the Japanese inn business in 2002, ORIX Real Estate has been involved in the operation of nine hot spring resorts.* Our business of restoring historic Japanese inns in various locations has emphasized protecting the jobs of local employees. Moreover, the increased number of guests drawn by investment in new facilities and improved service levels has also helped to vitalize local economies by increasing the number of tourists. * As of March 31, 2019, ORIX Real Estate is involved in the operation of seven of the nine resorts. Beppu Suginoi Hotel after ORIX Investment Beppu Suginoi Hotel Occupancy Rate Number of Guests Initiatives 2003 52% 251,000 Open air bath “Tanayu” 2008 68% 345,000 Buffet restaurant 2015 100% 628,000 Direct marketing 2016 100% 670,000 Theater-type buffet restaurant 2017* 91% 641,000 Open-air buffet restaurant 2018 97% 699,000 Fitness center (Gold’s Gym) * Decrease from previous year due to impact of Kumamoto earthquakes in April 2016 A Smart and Resilient Society ORIX contributes to the realization of a smart and resilient society through the products and services of its auto business. In the auto business, telematics services are used for purposes including appropriate labor management for companies and accident prevention. We are also working to develop special vehicles that address customer needs for disaster response and operational efficiency. 37 Social Telematics service Effects of e-Telematics on Safe Driving* The e-Telematics service provided by ORIX Auto uses devices equipped with (Times) 16 communication and GPS functions in customers’ vehicles to obtain real-time data 14 on driver behavior such as speeding and sudden acceleration or braking, as well as 12 vehicle data including fuel efficiency. By analyzing this data, we identify compliance, safety and environmental issues in the operation and management of a company’s 10 fleet of vehicles and provide support through consulting services on appropriate labor 8 management of drivers, accident prevention and other matters. 6 In August 2018, we began sales of Nauto, an AI-equipped dashcam developed by 4 Nauto Inc. of the United States, an AI technology company in the automotive field. 2 The product caters to the needs of corporations that want to prevent accidents caused 0 by distracted driving, falling asleep behind the wheel, and tailgating. 2nd 8th 14th 20th 26th 32nd 38th 44th 50th 56th (Month) Speeding Sudden acceleration Sudden braking Development and sale of special-purpose vehicles * Data on customers that have installed e-Telematics in more than 100 vehicles for longer than 1 year (November 2018 survey) ORIX Auto uses the expertise it has cultivated in truck and specialty vehicle leasing to plan and develop mobile bank branch vehicles and mobile office vehicles that are equipped according to customer requirements. Mobile bank branch vehicles enable financial institutions to provide financial Data services without opening a branch. We began developing these vehicles in response Mobile bank branch vehicle sales: 100 units to a request from a regional bank whose branches had been damaged in the Great Mobile office vehicle rental units in inventory: East Japan Earthquake. In addition to financial institutions that adopt these vehicles 214 units nationwide for use in disaster preparedness as part of their business continuity plan, an increasing (As of March 31, 2019) number of financial institutions use the vehicles to raise operating efficiency in regions where they have consolidated their branches. We developed the mobile office vehicle to meet customer requirements for reduced working hours and other ways to increase operating efficiency. Our mobile office vehicles are modified commercial-use vans equipped with a desk, a chair with storage compartments, an inverter, an air conditioner and an LED lamp. Mobile office vehicles serve as simple offices and enable office work as time permits. They can improve labor efficiency, lessen employee fatigue, and reduce office rental costs at construction sites and other locations where temporary offices are difficult to install. They also store power and therefore can be used in areas affected by disasters. Social Contribution Activities In addition to helping to resolve social issues through our businesses, ORIX conducts various initiatives for social and environmental issues that are not covered by our business activities. In broad terms, we conduct initiatives from the following three viewpoints. Please refer to our website for details. Environmental Conservation Activities https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/contribution/conservation_activities.html On-site class for elementary school students Fostering the Next Generation (Kyoto Aquarium) https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/contribution/fostering.html Communication with Local Communities https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/sustainability/contribution/communication.html 38 Governance Corporate Governance Our Approach to Corporate Governance • ORIX believes that a robust corporate governance system is essential for ensuring objective management and carrying out appropriate business activities in line with our core policies. We have therefore aimed to establish a sound and transparent corporate governance system. • Corporate governance is a system for exercising oversight over management. It involves setting objectives, performance analysis and evaluation, and supervision over management in order to ensure that management strives to attain outstanding results. The tension inherent in corporate governance encourages management to perform to the best of its ability and facilitates innovation in pursuit of corporate objectives. Such an approach is conducive to the achievement of consistently high return on equity. • O utside directors have a crucial role to play in corporate governance. Based on their varied perspectives reflecting their diverse professional backgrounds, outside directors are more capable of objectively evaluating management’s performance in ways that transcend the industry’s conventional wisdom and the company’s ingrained practices. Moreover, by virtue of their outside perspectives, outside directors are in a position to more objectively evaluate and guide management when they are not taking on appropriate, intelligent risks. Corporate Governance System ORIX’s corporate governance system is characterized by: with an outside director acting as chairperson for all • Separation of operation and oversight through a “Company aforementioned committees; with Nominating Committee, etc.” board model; • A ll outside directors satisfying our strict conditions for • The Nomination Committee being comprised of a majority independence; and of outside directors and the Audit and Compensation • All outside directors being highly qualified in their respective Committees being fully comprised of outside directors, fields. Corporate Governance Framework (As of July 1, 2019) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment or Dismissal of Directors Management/Supervision Board of Directors Nominating Committee Independent Certified Public Accountants Decides the candidates for Directors 6 Outside Directors Compensation Committee Decides the compensation for Directors and Executive Officers 6 Internal Directors Audit Committee Reporting Monitors the operational execution of Directors/Executive Officers Supervision Execution of Operations Framework* Financial Auditing *Please refer to page 40 for Execution of Operations Framework. 39 Execution of Operation System ORIX’s internal control system aims to build an efficient auditing functions. Furthermore, we are actively working to business execution model that responds quickly and flexibly continuously improve our internal control system in response to changes in the business environment through the effective to changes in the business environment as well as expansion execution of ORIX’s business operations such as risk and diversification of our business. management, compliance, group company management, and Execution of Operations Framework (As of July 1, 2019) Management/Supervision Nominating Committee Board of Directors Compensation Committee Secretariat of the Board of Directors Audit Committee Execution of operations Report Delegation of execution Audit Committee Secretariat Report Executive Committee Disclosure Committee Cooperation (Organs responsible for execution of operations) Investment and Credit Committee Monthly Strategy Meetings CEO, COO, CFO Information Technology Executive Officers Management Committee Group Executive Officer Committee Execution Internal audit Business units Internal control-related functions department (including subsidiaries) (Departments in charge of Group management) Audit Monitoring Whistle-blower channels For more detailed information on our corporate governance, please refer to the following: Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ir/library/index.html Corporate Governance https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ir/governance 40 Our Sustainability Governance Structure Background Because of our business principle to address societal issues created a sustainability task force which included members and needs through our business activities, sustainability has from corporate planning, investor relations, and legal always been in ORIX’s DNA. However, institutionalizing and departments. This team engaged expert outside consultants documenting our approach to sustainability and then sharing to help guide ORIX’s approach to institutionalizing and that approach with the world has been an area in which we documenting its approach to sustainability. The task force was have been lacking. then formalized into the ORIX Sustainability Team, which was In order to improve our organizational structure and officially formed in July 2019. transparency regarding sustainability, in fall 2018, the CEO Introduction of the ORIX Sustainability Team The ORIX Sustainability Team is located within the Corporate expertise both at ORIX Corporation and at previous jobs in Planning Department, which in turn is part of the Treasury corporate sustainability advisory matters, energy use matters, and Accounting Headquarters. The team reports to and ESG investment and finance, investor relations, corporate works closely with top management, including the CEO, the planning, and environmental and general corporate law. Assistant to the CEO, Global General Counsel and the head of Some members have built their careers at ORIX, making the Treasury and Accounting Headquarters. The Sustainability them knowledgeable about the intricacies of the complex Team also reports to the Executive Committee, and will organization that is ORIX, while some members have recently also present at the Board Audit Committee to both educate joined ORIX from various workplaces, bringing a fresh and and prompt discussion and decision-making among the top global perspective to the team. We believe that this blend of executives and directors at ORIX. backgrounds and areas of expertise gives the team a solid The team is comprised of members with experience and base from which to engage in new challenges. Sustainability Governance Structure (As of July 1, 2019) CEO Assistant to the CEO and Managing Executive Officer responsible for Executive Committee Treasury and Accounting Headquarters (Deliberation) Head of the Treasury and Accounting Headquarters Reporting Instructions Reporting Sustainability Team Global General Counsel As necessary Corporate Planning Department Treasury and Accounting Headquarters Instructions 41 Governance Purpose of the Sustainability Team The purpose of the ORIX Sustainability Team is three-fold: subsidiaries and business units will be tasked with setting 1. Oversee ORIX’s overall approach to sustainability. their own, tailored approach to sustainability. This approach will set the tone from the top and aim to  The ORIX Sustainability Team will guide and assist create a culture of corporate sustainability that permeates subsidiaries and business units in formulating their across ORIX. approach and will monitor whether such approaches are in  This approach will emphasize minimum standards that line with ORIX’s overall sustainability goals. must be met by all ORIX Group companies and employees and will work together with the more specific approach that 3. Report ORIX’s approach to sustainability to will be set out by individual subsidiaries and business units. its stakeholders.  The Sustainability Team will also be responsible for The ORIX Sustainability Team will be responsible for determining Group-wide sustainability initiatives, such as issuing an annual sustainability report. signing onto public commitments.  The ORIX Sustainability Team will maintain ORIX’s sustainability website, which will serve as a repository for 2. Encourage and assist subsidiaries and business all matters related to ORIX’s approach to sustainability, units in setting specific sustainability goals including underlying data. tailored to that particular subsidiary or business  The ORIX Sustainability Team will help create a culture unit’s business. of corporate sustainability at ORIX through messaging and Recognizing that ORIX is a highly diversified and global education, using diverse avenues such as ORIX’s internal enterprise that is impacted by sustainability issues in news bulletin, sponsoring seminars open to all employees, various industries and geographic regions, individual and presentations to management. [Sustainability Approach] Corporate Level Business Unit Level Applicability Group-wide Specific to each business unit Executive Committee and respective business Governance Executive Committee unit heads Sustainability Team Sustainability Team Corporate Planning Department Administration Corporate Planning Department Sustainability contact at each respective business unit Unifying culture, minimum standards, zero Key Terms Tailored approach and ownership tolerance, transparency 42 Sustainable Investing and Lending Establishment of Sustainable Investing and Lending Policy ORIX recognizes that sustainability issues related to the understanding of the risks and opportunities associated with environment, society, and governance (“ESG”) may have a our businesses and activities and benefits our customers and significant impact on long-term risks and opportunities, and shareholders as a result. that consideration of sustainability in ORIX’s decision-making is Based on the above ideas and the ORIX Corporate an extremely important prerequisite for conducting business. Sustainability Policy, ORIX adopted its Sustainable Investing We also believe that incorporating sustainability requirements and Lending Policy in September 2019. into investment and financing considerations provides a better Scope of the Policy As a general rule, this policy shall apply to applications in the relevant matter attend the ICC and deliberate on submitted to ORIX Corporation’s Investment and Credit investment and financing matters which exceed certain Committee (“ICC”), which is one of the executive bodies of specified investment or credit amount thresholds. ORIX. Top management and the Executive Officers involved Operation of the Policy Role of each department Screening • The relevant business team identifies sustainability related ORIX’s investing and lending projects are assessed and risks in a proposed project before submitting the proposal to decided after giving due consideration to the environmental the ICC. and social impacts of the proposed project. We may decide • A s the department in charge of reviewing all proposals to not invest or lend in businesses that are deemed to have submitted to the ICC, the Credit and Investment Management insufficient management of environmental and social issues. Headquarters collects sustainability related information related to the proposed project and relays that information Integration to the Sustainability Team of the Corporate Planning In order to holistically and comprehensively assess a proposed Department. project, ORIX conducts risk assessments of projects that • T h e S u s t a i n a b i l i t y T e a m s u b m i t s c o m m e n t s a n d includes sustainability aspects, including corporate governance, recommendations to the ICC if it determines that a proposed environmental impact, and human rights, instead of limiting our project poses high sustainability related risks, taking into assessment to the economic aspects of the proposed project. account potential mitigation measures including further due diligence conducted by expert outside advisors. Knowledge ORIX shall use its Sustainable Investing and Lending Checklist Assessment method to evaluate the sustainability aspect of the proposed project. We holistically evaluate investing and lending projects based The Sustainable Investing and Lending Checklist is filled out on criteria such as screening, integration and knowledge by the business team as part of its ICC application and is and analyze and identify sustainability related risks and relayed to the Sustainability Team of the Corporate Planning opportunities in the proposed activities as part of our investing Department through the Credit and Investment Management or lending decision. Headquarters. If, based on such process, a project is deemed to have significant sustainability risks, ORIX may conduct additional investigations using external experts with expertise in sustainability and ESG investment. 43 Governance Active Ownership Activities ORIX also actively engages to improve sustainability and ESG we will continue to monitor important ESG risks identified aspects in existing investing and lending projects. If necessary, during the project assessment stage. Compliance ORIX’s Approach to Compliance ORIX has positioned compliance as one of our most important standards, and good faith, fairness and transparency in all management issues, striving to build an effective compliance corporate activities. structure alongside a corporate culture that values high ethical Compliance Structure ORIX reports important compliance matters to the Executive cooperates with the compliance officers appointed at Committee, the Group Executive Officer Committee and the subsidiaries and business units, and promotes compliance Board Audit Committee. The Group Compliance Department, activities across ORIX. under the jurisdiction of the Head of ERM Headquarters, Executive Committee Board Audit Committee Group Executive Officer Committee Discussion Report Report Headquarters Head of Enterprise Risk Management Headquarters Group Compliance Department Deliberation and Report Subsidiaries and business Compliance Officer units Subsidiaries and business units Annual Compliance Plan In order to prevent and control compliance risks, ORIX reviews the appropriateness and effectiveness of the individual establishes an annual a Group-wide action policy for compliance annual compliance plans. Following such review, each annual (“Annual Compliance Policy”) each fiscal year. compliance plan is then put into practice at each respective Each ORIX Group subsidiary and business unit conducts risk subsidiary or business unit. At the end of the relevant period, assessments pursuant to this policy, and formulates an annual a completion report is filed and the content of this report is compliance plan for its own business in accordance with reviewed by the Group Compliance Department. such risk assessments. The Group Compliance Department 44 Compliance Awareness Activities Top management, including the CEO and Executive Officers conducted on an on-going basis. Specifically, training is conducted responsible for compliance at ORIX, sends messages with through the use of e-learning, group training, and onsite courses. the objective of improving compliance awareness for all ORIX In addition to training applicable to all employees, tailored training Group officers and employees, and the Group Compliance is conducted for new hires and officers. Department also regularly sends information on specific points In addition to such training, measures are taken to maintain of caution and to generally spread awareness. and increase the awareness and sophistication of each officer In addition, in order to promote a strong understanding of and employee of ORIX, including the implementation of the importance of compliance in ORIX officers and employees awareness surveys and workplace environment interviews on that translates into day-to-day practice, compliance training is topics such as workplace harassment or work-life balance. Compliance Training ORIX regularly holds Compliance Officer Liaison Meetings, In addition, personnel at the Group Compliance Department which are attended by compliance officers (persons appointed endeavor to build a library of the latest market practices to promote compliance at each ORIX Group subsidiary and and information related to compliance and acquire skills for business unit) and aims to promote the understanding of implementing compliance by liaising with external organizations ongoing compliance promotion measures and improve overall and undergoing external training courses. sophistication regarding compliance. Surveys and Monitoring The Group Compliance Department conducts surveys on the department conducts an investigation, provides instructions workplace environment and compliance awareness, and on corrective actions, and provides recommendations to the reflects the results of such surveys in compliance measures. Human Resources Department on disciplinary action to take In addition, in the event of a potential compliance violation, against violators. Compliance Related Policies (As of October 31, 2019) Compliance Corruption ORIX has established Group-wide regulations on compliance, ORIX maintains the highest ethical standards, adheres to all and has prescribed rules and codes of conduct that will keep applicable laws, and endeavors to ensure that its officers, officers and employees of ORIX in strict adherence with the employees, representatives and agents do not perform any legal requirements and company regulations. acts over the course of business that are or may appear to be ORIX has adopted its Group-wide Compliance Policy, which inappropriate. ORIX has adopted a Group-wide Anti-Corruption sets out ORIX’s compliance requirements and compliance risk Policy which prohibits any inappropriate transfer of money management systems. ORIX has also adopted a Compliance regardless of circumstances or whether the other party to the Manual which explains ORIX’s Compliance Policy and Code of transaction is a government employee, employee of a private Conduct and Ethics in an easy to understand manner and aims company, or any other individual. to deepen employee awareness of compliance matters and improve compliance readiness. 45 Governance Entertainment and gifts prevention of harm by antisocial forces, including adherence ORIX prescribes rules governing entertainment and gifts to laws and regulations relating to freezing the assets of (whether given or received) in relation to public officials or international terrorists and to the prevention of money ORIX’s business partners in our Rules on Entertainment and laundering. ORIX’s rules related to antisocial forces aim to Gift Giving and Receiving. ORIX prohibits the provision of minimize any damage or loss caused to ORIX’s business entertainment or gifts as a means to obtain any unfair gain, in addition to fulfilling our basic responsibility to society to and endeavors to conduct all transactions with public officials minimize the influence of antisocial forces. or business partners in a fair and transparent manner. Conflicts of interest Money-laundering The ORIX Group Conflict of Interest Prevention Policy ORIX endeavors to detect and appropriately manage money prescribes ORIX’s standards for avoiding conflicts of interest laundering risks. In the ORIX Group Money Laundering Prevention and sets out appropriate management of an actual or potential Policy, ORIX prescribes that in all business transactions of the conflict of interest for an officer or employee of ORIX Group. Group, it will not participate in transactions related to revenue arising from an unlawful act, transactions that provide funds to Insider trading terrorists, or transactions that do not adhere to sanctions or money The ORIX Insider Trading Policy prescribes the management laundering regulations of relevant jurisdictions. In addition, each of insider information obtained by officers and employees of ORIX Group company that is involved in business that is subject to ORIX Group over the course of their business, the regulation the Japanese Act on Prevention of Transfer of Criminal Proceeds of the trading of shares, as well as other matters to prevent verifies the identity of the other parties to a transaction at the insider trading and other unfair business transactions. beginning of such transaction and notifies the relevant authorities of any suspicious transactions, as prescribed by the act. Unfair transactions ORIX endeavors to always engage in fair and free competition. Antisocial forces The ORIX Compliance Rules Relating to the Prevention of Unfair ORIX’s Detailed Rules on the Prevention of Harm by Antisocial Transactions are designed to prevent ORIX from conducting Forces and other related rules prescribes ORIX’s rules for the business transactions involving any unfair business practices. Internal Whistle-Blower System ORIX has established whistle-blower and consultation soundness of Group management by detecting violations of channels for fraud and legal violations (an outside law firm) and laws, regulations and internal rules at an early stage in order to for accounting, internal control of accounting and audits (ORIX prevent scandals and make the necessary improvements. Audit Committee Secretariat) and whistle-blower hotlines Whistle-blower hotlines have been established both for inappropriate business execution, harassment and other internally and externally. The external channel employs lawyers matters (both internal and external channels are available). and specialists from outside ORIX, and we have also set up These channels accept consultations from executives, a channel for reporting to the Audit Committee, which is employees, temp staff, part-time workers and retirees as well independent from management. We work to ensure that the as members of their families by mail, direct visit, telephone system functions properly by facilitating anonymous reporting and email, the last of which is available 24 hours a day, 365 and reporting on systemic problems. These hotlines are also days a year. We also use posters and the company intranet equipped to handle consultations from persons who are unsure as a means of informing officers and employees about these how to deal with problems related to ethical conduct, legal consultation channels. In this way, we aim to improve the conduct or organizational integrity. 46 In addition, the Rules on the Compliance Hotline, which set their supervisor and in the event there is an obstacle to notifying forth the structure and operation of the system, prohibit any their supervisor, to promptly contact the compliance hotline. disadvantageous treatment of whistle-blowers and those who After receiving a report, access to the information is strictly cooperate with the investigation. These rules also impose controlled and limited to the persons involved, under the an obligation on all officers and employees, including temp management of the hotline manager (the officer responsible staff, upon learning of an actual or potential violation of laws, for compliance). Appropriate investigations and corrective regulations or internal rules, to first, as a general rule, report it to actions are then conducted. External Whistle-Blower System As an aspect of promoting compliance, ORIX has established a ORIX Corporation accepts reports on actions by Group officers whistle-blower channel for reports from business partners and and employees that violate or may violate compliance policies. other external parties. The Group Compliance Department at Risk Management Risk Management System Upgrades ORIX believes effective risk management is vital to the continuity in coordination with internal control departments including the of its business activities and manages risks relating to Group Credit Department, which monitors risks related to individual businesses through its risk management system. To adequately transactions. Results are reported to the Executive Committee, assess risk on a global basis, we have established the Investment and Credit Committee, Audit Committee, and Board Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) Headquarters to control of Directors, which use these reports to assess risk. Relevant and manage risk throughout ORIX and facilitate centralized risk executive bodies then implement measures deemed appropriate management. Risk analysis and management are conducted to address identiﬁed risks. Risk Control ORIX allocates management resources by taking into account Committee reviews such individual transactions. Changes to Group-wide risk preferences based on management strategies the operating environment and cash ﬂow are monitored after as well as the strategies of individual business units. Our Board transaction execution, and transactions for which there has of Directors and Executive Ofﬁcers evaluate the performance been a major change in circumstances or strategy are then and proﬁtability of each business unit, and the Executive reported to the appropriate Executive Ofﬁcers. In addition, Ofﬁcers take responsive measures they deem necessary to individual business units conduct their own risk analysis by control risk. This process enables us to control our balance analyzing trends in relevant industries to control risks for sheet and allocate more management resources to business individual transactions. units viewed as having greater growth potential. In analyzing ORIX’s portfolio, the Credit Department monitors ORIX monitors each business unit, and also monitors risks the following characteristics from a Group-wide perspective: on an individual transaction and total portfolio basis. business type, region, transaction type, risk type, asset quality For individual transactions relating to business transactions, and concentration of risk among major debtors. The Corporate the Credit Department evaluates the operating environment, Planning Department monitors risks at the corporate level, strategies, and potential risks and proﬁtability of each including market risk and liquidity risk, in cooperation with the transaction prior to execution, and the Investment and Credit Treasury Department and the Credit Department. 47 Governance Management of Principal Risks ORIX has established a system to appropriately identify and businesses. The following are our eight primary risks, and manage the characteristics of various risks related to Group we manage each of them according to their features. [Main Risks and Examples of Risk Management Methodologies] Main Risks Risk Definition Examples of Risk Management Methodologies Uncertainty regarding future recovery of investments • Obtain adequate collateral and guarantees Credit risk caused by ﬂuctuations in cash ﬂow from debtors and • Securitize receivables investees. • Diversify debtors and their business types Uncertainties related to new business areas, potential obsolescence of the products or services we offer or a • Conduct scenario analyses and stress testing Business risk decline in their quality, and variability in market prices • Monitor business plans and operations for the types of products or services we offer. The risk of changes in the fair value of assets and • Set Group-wide rules for comprehensive asset and Market risk liabilities caused by changes in market variables, such liability management (ALM) as interest rates, exchange rates and stock prices. • Comprehensively understand and verify market risks The risk that we will be unable to obtain required • Diversify fund procurement methods and sources Liquidity risk funds or that we will be forced to procure funds at an • Manage liquidity on hand (risk relating to fund unusually high rate of interest due to market turmoil, • A nalyze liquidity risk using hypothetical stress procurement) a sharp decline in the ﬁnancial condition of ORIX or scenarios other reasons. The risk of damages, losses, adverse effects or • Formulate and implement an annual compliance plan damage to our reputation resulting from a failure by • Implement programs that support a corporate ORIX to comply with applicable laws and regulations culture of compliance Compliance risk regarding ORIX’s business activities or corporate • R aise awareness for compliance matters among philosophy, internal policies, rules and procedures officers and employees by establishing and which may also encompass legal risk when applicable disseminating various regulations laws and regulations are violated. The risk of legal liability and business disadvantages • Involve the Credit Department, the Legal Department that may arise from the establishment and and the Compliance Department to avoid, reduce and Legal risk amendment of or changes in regulatory oversight conduct measures to prevent risks regarding laws and regulations applicable to ORIX’s • Employ internal and outside legal counsel business and corporate management. • E stablish policies for information management The risk of loss caused by destruction, damage or systems*1 Information asset risk leakage of information or failure of our information • Maintain and manage internal systems and build a systems. system to respond to information security incidents when they occur The risk of loss resulting from damages, losses, adverse effects or damage to our reputation caused • Establish internal rules to manage risks associated by inadequate or failed internal processes for business Operational risk with natural disasters*2 execution or prevention of human error or by a failure • Monitor based on an annual internal audit plan in operations due to external events such as natural disasters. 48 *1 Information Security Risk Management ORIX has established its Information Security Policy as the • Identification of individual officers or employees before basic Group policy for addressing information asset risks. use of information systems The policy sets forth guidelines for the appropriate handling We identify individual officers or employees before using of information assets based on their level of importance, information systems, with the concept that each individual prescribes ongoing attention and response measures to will handle such information responsibly. threats to important information and information system • Ongoing officer and employee training vulnerabilities, and determines the response system and We provide officers and employees with ongoing training on responsibilities in the event a risk materializes. information security, including through e-learning. Details of our main information security management • Preparation for the occurrence of information security initiatives are as follows. incidents • Setting criteria for the level of importance of information We prescribe responses in the event an information security We establish Group-wide criteria for the level of importance incident occurs in the form of Group-wide internal regulations, of information in order to identify important information. and clearly identify the responding organizations and their • Multiple safety management measures responsibilities. We conduct safety management that combines physical, human, organizational, and technical checks and balances, without excessive reliance on any one specific method or technique. *2 Disaster Risk Management ORIX has established Basic Disaster Risk Management to disasters and establish remedial measures, and during Rules, which set forth its basic approach, details of activities, emergency conditions, we aim to minimize damage by framework for systematic execution of risk management maintaining organizational functions and promptly recovering and other matters in the event unforeseen incidents occur, any lost functions. ORIX prioritizes guaranteeing the safety including natural disasters or accidents. In tandem with these of its officers and employees and their families as it strives rules, ORIX has also established a Disaster Risk Management for the preservation or appropriate and prompt restoration Basic Policy. Through such policies and rules, during normal, of management resources. ORIX also responds to disasternon-emergency periods, we seek to establish methods to related societal demands. mitigate foreseeable losses of management resources due 49 Governance-Related Data Evolution of Corporate Governance In order to present itself in an accurate and transparent fashion to investors, ORIX has been applying 1964 Adopted U.S. GAAP U.S. GAAP in its financial reporting since its founding in 1964. Listed on the second Six years after its founding, ORIX listed its shares on the second section of the Osaka Securities 1970 section of the Osaka Exchange. Going public reflected the Company’s aspiration to be a responsible member of society with Securities Exchange transparency and accountability in its governance. ORIX spearheaded the strengthening of corporate governance through measures such as establishing Established 1997 an Advisory Board, a committee composed entirely of outside advisors who provide advice to Advisory Board management, in 1997 and introducing a Corporate Executive Officer System in 1998. Introduced Corporate In 1998, ORIX adopted the Corporate Executive Officer System, which separates the supervisory function (Board of Directors) and business execution (Executive Officers). In the same year, ORIX listed Executive Officer System 1998 its shares on the New York Stock Exchange after considering the growing number of foreign and listed on the New York shareholders and the benefit of strengthening corporate governance through the more stringent Stock Exchange disclosure requirements of the SEC. Adopted the “Company ORIX welcomed its first Outside Director in 1999 and adopted the “Company with Committees” board model* in 2003. All of the current Outside Directors meet the independence criteria prescribed by the 2003 with Committees” Tokyo Stock Exchange. board model* *Adopted the new “Company with Nominating Committee, etc.” board model in line with the amendment of the Companies Act of Japan in 2015. This is how ORIX has been strengthening its management oversight since its founding. The current corporate governance framework requires a high level of discipline from the managers, but we believe this is how corporate governance is supposed to be. Director Composition 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Number of Directors 13 13 12 12 12 Number of Outside Directors 6 6 6 6 6 Percentage of Outside Directors 46% 46% 50% 50% 50% Female Directors 1 1 1 1 2 Percentage of Female Directors 8% 8% 8% 8% 17% 50 ORIX Corporation Treasury and Accounting Headquarters Corporate Planning Department World Trade Center Bldg., 2–4–1 Hamamatsu-cho, Minato–ku, Tokyo 105–6135, Japan Tel: +81–3–3435–3121 Fax: +81–3–3435–3154 URL: https://www.orix.co.jp/grp/en/ For inquiries about this Sustainability Report, please contact us at the address above.
