COMPANY NAME: GRUPO CLARÍN S.A. COP TITLE: GRUPO CLARÍN AND ITS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY – 2018 PERIOD: JAN-2018 / DEC-2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT: Since its foundation, Grupo Clarín has been conscious of its social responsibility as a company and as a member of the media, and has strived to assume such responsibility abiding by the laws, honoring its active and sustained social and community involvement and, especially, fulfilling its duty to inform with honesty and accuracy. A commitment to society is an inherent and essential part of Grupo Clarín’s vision and mission statement. The Company attaches special importance to the relationship with its different audiences, which acknowledge and validate its activities each day and, over time, have established multiple communication and interaction channels with Clarín’s stakeholders. From the standpoint of its audiences, readers and society in general, Grupo Clarín’s media and journalists work day after day towards respecting and consolidating citizens’ right to information; combining high credibility, quality content and a comprehensive journalistic and entertainment offering. We hereby ratify our support and commitment to the Global Compact and submit our COP, which is an essential part of our yearly Annual Report. Jorge C. Rendo Chairman Grupo Clarín SA 1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY Our Commitment Since our foundation, Grupo Clarín has been aware of its social responsibility as a company and as a medium. Our commitment to society is an inherent part of Grupo Clarín's activities. Grupo Clarín's media and journalists work day after day towards fulfilling and consolidating the citizens' right to information, fulfilling its duty to inform with honesty and accuracy and combining high credibility rates with a comprehensive journalistic and entertainment offering, based on a deep knowledge of the audience. The Company has established multiple channels for communicating and interacting with its different stakeholders in order to respond to their expectations and boost the positive impacts of its initiatives. Transparency, Standards and Guidelines Grupo Clarín's values and principles are outlined in the Company's Code of Ethics and in the Guía para la Acción, a document that proposes models for management, organization and roles, and outlines Grupo Clarín's policies and procedures concerning labor, the environment and human rights. Ethics manuals and editorial guidelines on news coverage, including internal rules and commitments to journalistic quality and the fulfillment of communicators’ responsibility, are the guiding principles of the several activities developed by news and entertainment companies. During 2018, the Company implemented the main pillars of its Social Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Policy in order to extend best practices and set common goals within the organization and its subsidiaries. Since 2004, the Company has remained committed to adhering to the United Nations Global Compact in order to systematically embody the 10 guiding principles for sustainable management. In 2018, Grupo Clarín presented its third Sustainability Report, which is the only one issued by a journalistic company in Argentina, leading the way towards transparency and sustainability in the sector. This annual report reflects the Group's environmental, social and economic performance. It discloses year-on-year information and follows the international guidelines of the Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and its Media Sector Supplement. The Company identified its contribution to the specific targets of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals set by the United Nations and used the ISO 26,000 Social Responsibility International Standard to integrate social responsibility into its management. In order to identify the most relevant issues to its business and to its stakeholders, it followed the AccountAbility 1000:AA1000SES Stakeholder Engagement Standard. The material indicators were verified by an external independent auditor. Independence and Transparency Independence is at the core of Grupo Clarín as a guarantee of the freedom to exercise the journalistic role of its media in the Argentine democracy. Independence is also an assumed responsibility, a way of exercising and guaranteeing rights and a condition required to ensure sustainability from the Company's standpoint. The Company has established a business with a diversity of revenues that contributes to generating conditions to inform without any conditionings and thus sustain its independence. Business and editorial functions are clearly separated at Grupo Clarín's media. Special emphasis is placed on the fact that journalists are completely detached from the sale of advertising so as to allow for the exercise of journalism, free of any conditioning factor. In addition, Grupo Clarín's media specifically focus on the distinction between advertising and editorial space. 2 Independence requires transparency. Hence, the information about Grupo Clarín and its subsidiaries, media, shareholders, activities, revenues and investments is public and is available at its website, its weekly newsletter at the web site of the Argentine Securities Commission, and at the diverse communication channels with the public, audiences and readers. Information on Sustainability In line with its Social Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Policy, Grupo Clarín identifies the material aspects of its activities following international social responsibility standards applicable to the media, particularly, the GRI's guidelines, and in accordance with the expectations of its multiple stakeholders. As to the scope of the information provided in this section, labor indicators include all of Grupo Clarín's subsidiaries, pursuant to the accounting criteria followed in the financial statements presented together with this Annual Report, with the addition of Trisa S.A. Environmental performance refers to production or scale operations in which disclosing this kind of information is material. Similarly, some content-related indicators are exclusively applied to subsidiaries engaged in journalistic or entertainment broadcasting and programming activities. As to other indicators, for instance, those related to certain community engagement programs of Grupo Clarín or its subsidiaries that require comprehensive and detailed impact assessments, the information provided is mostly related to the core of the activities inherent to the Metropolitan Area of Buenos Aires, due to the complexity and extension of the processes involved in reviewing and verifying periodic information. The Voice of the People Grupo Clarín's media companies have assumed a long-standing commitment to audiences and readers. Grupo Clarín's sustained leadership and the privileged position of its products as the people's preferred choice are attributable to its ability to anticipate media consumption trends, paired with its capacity to understand their needs and meet their requirements. Grupo Clarín's media foster the interaction with its public and audiences, enhancing listening and discussion channels and tools. Applications, social networks, letters from the readers, surveys, contests, spaces for opinion, suggestions and comments are expressed through multiple open spaces for content created by the people and for the free expression of the entire diverse and plural society. During this period, at a corporate level, Grupo Clarín also offered multiple communication and interaction channels to discuss specific institutional issues, such as weekly newsletters and websites and social networks, in order to share the latest updates with accuracy and transparency. Grupo Clarín also intends to give a voice to small communities and to foster the development of local contents. It has two of the most important regional newspapers of Argentina, La Voz del Interior in the province of Córdoba, and Los Andes in the province of Mendoza. It also has broadcast channels in Buenos Aires, Bahía Blanca, Córdoba and Río Negro. In addition, the news signal TN offers nationwide coverage and is present at the significant events that take place in every province of Argentina. Social and Sustainability Coverage Grupo Clarín sets goals to guarantee the quality, plurality and diversity of its contents. Grupo Clarín’s newspapers and news programs offer comprehensive coverage of news and relevant social and environmental issues. They also have a long-standing and respected reputation for journalistic research. 3 Special supplements, experts' and scholars' opinions, on-site news coverage, journalistic talent and the quality of the images and infographics complete the broad variety of issues addressed by Grupo Clarín. These include health, consumption and development, science, education, gender and the environment. Acknowledging the importance of reflecting diversity, fostering social justice, protecting the youth, encouraging minority recognition and avoiding discrimination on the basis of race and gender are key actions to create content in the media in a responsible fashion. An example of this commitment is the adherence of the main media companies of Grupo Clarín (Diario Clarín, eltrece and the newspaper La Voz del Interior) to the ONU's Step It Up for Gender Equality Media Compact, which seeks to contribute to the eradication of inequality between men and women. This compact provides for seven guidelines, which boil down to the creation of gender-sensitive contents and the promotion of internal policies that ensure gender equality. In 2018, with the support of UN Women, the company gave training for journalists about genderbased violence coverage reflect on common mistakes and the importance of journalism to shed light on this world issue. Our media have specific spaces to promote diversity and inclusion, such as Somos Familia in Tn.com.ar, which features stories about different types of families. Diario Clarín has the weekly column Empoderadas (Empowered), stories of professional women. And a weekly page about gender-based news in the newspaper Los Andes de Mendoza, which was declared a matter of municipal interest by the legislature of the Province of Mendoza. Civic Involvement and Contribution to Development Grupo Clarín seeks permanently to improve its role in the promotion of the public debate thoroughly describing the social, economic and environmental challenges faced by society with diversity of opinion. The columnists and anchors encourage audiences to engage in the discussion of the different topics from the social networks and digital platforms. Grupo Clarín also sought, once again, to foster values such as solidarity and community commitment. Through Artear, in 2018 the Company launched a new edition of Abanderados de la Argentina Solidaria, an award that recognizes the work—that would otherwise go unnoticed— done by social entrepreneurs and community leaders, by communicating valuable initiatives, that foster social transformation and may be replicated. The initiative is supported by Ashoka and Fundación Navarro Viola and a panel of outstanding people from the social, academic and cultural sectors. Grupo Clarín also renewed its support for the traditional Un sol para los chicos, together with ARTEAR and UNICEF. The campaign is one of UNICEF's main sources of revenues in the country and seeks to boost individual donations to social causes in Argentina. In 2018, the Company held the 26th edition and raised $ 103,610,912 among contributions made by individuals, companies and others, to be used in education and social programs aimed at children and young people. Community Engagement and Social Advertising Grupo Clarín's impact on and relationship with the community and people goes beyond the boundaries of its editorial coverage. The support to vulnerable communities, the coordination of educational projects, and the organization of campaigns to address social issues or to help areas that were hit by natural disasters, paired with Grupo Clarín's sustained commitment evidenced by several types of donations and knowledge transfer, are just some examples of the initiatives organized and fostered by Grupo Clarín's media companies, either jointly or individually. With respect to social advertising, during 2018, Grupo Clarín, through several of its media companies, donated a significant amount of advertising time and space to foster causes related to social, civic and environmental issues. The Company achieved this through its own social 4 investment programs or within the framework of strategic alliances with organizations of the civil society. Advertising space donated in 2018 on Grupo Clarín's media. Radio and Broadcast and Cable TV 132,842.00 seconds Pages in newspapers and magazines 181.31 pages Online Banners 97,602,656.00 prints The estimated impact of these in-kind contributions allocated to public welfare messages accounts for the equivalent to a social investment of $ 77,685,298.70. This was coupled with the social investment budget developed by the business units and the one developed by Fundación Noble, which stood at $ 7,594,101 in 2018. Hence, the total cash and in-kind contributions represent in the aggregate a contribution of approximately $ 85,279,400. In addition to providing financing, resources, capacity and experience in the promotion of socially valuable initiatives, Grupo Clarín also relies upon third parties to secure regular sponsorships and donations within the framework of strategic alliances related to the sponsored initiatives. Fostering Education and Culture As part of its initiatives in support of education, Grupo Clarín used its cross-segment position and its ability to communicate with society to raise awareness of the importance of education as a right and as a critical element in Argentina's future social development. In this sense, Grupo Clarín also seeks to foster equal opportunities in education through its publishing company Tinta Fresca with the generation of updated, affordable and quality educational materials for students, teachers and schools throughout the country. One of the most prominent initiatives is the award “Premio ClarínZúrich a la Educación”. The tenth edition recognized the best projects about the development of scientific and technological thinking in middle school. The first prize consisted of $ 360,000 to develop the project. In addition, there were three honorable mentions which received $ 80,000 each. During this period, through the Noble Foundation, the Company continued to donate bibliographical material, and renewed its support to public schools named after the founder of Diario Clarín, Roberto Noble (Escuelas Roberto Noble.) Noble Foundation's Donations of Educational Material 2018 2017 2016 Books 14,667 18,830 39,022 Magazines 12,901 10,341 9,325 Manuals 4,770 1,804 1,250 Again this year, the Company sponsored the annual Maratón de Lectura (Readathon) initiative, organized by Fundación Leer, with the participation of over 5 million children. The event received the donation of 12,176 books published by Clarín and the Readathon was promoted through a broad advertising campaign. Through its cable and broadcast TV signals, Grupo Clarín's companies make significant efforts to promote the most relevant cultural, motion picture and sports events. Such efforts are an increasing contribution to cultural diversity and local identity. Of particular note are initiatives such as Volver, the cable TV signal that keeps Argentina's most complete programming archive. 5 Media Literacy Through several programs, Grupo Clarín encourages children and young people to develop media access tools through critical thinking and to leverage the opportunities provided by the media and technology to explore their identity, creatively express their ideas and make their voices heard. Media literacy is generally defined as the ability to access to, analyze, respond with critical thinking and benefit from, the media. Grupo Clarín's main tool to foster media literacy is its support of Los medios de comunicación en la educación, (The Media in Education), a pioneer program widely recognized abroad that has been developed for more than 30 years by the Noble Foundation. The program consists of workshops and special educational content suited to the needs of teachers and students oriented to foster a critical approach to the media and their use as resources that supplement formal education. Since the inception of the program, more than 550,000 students have participated in the program. In 2018, 12 editions of virtual courses were held about: Information and communication; Learning to coexist; Studying in digital culture; Planning a digital medium; Narrating in social sciences; Digital Education; Growing among the media, with the participation of 1,176 educators. In addition, the company organized talks about emotions, school coexistence, creativity through programming, communication and learning in digital cultures, with the participation of more than 1,000 teachers. The company also gave workshops for high school students about “The Young and the Media,” “Reading Skills” and “The Youth and the Future”, with the participation of 3,807 students. Excellence in Journalistic Training In order to reaffirm the commitment to journalistic excellence, Grupo Clarín also carried out activities aimed at consolidating the training and excellence of current and future communicators. In this sense, the Company provided support to the Master’s Degree in Journalism, an international graduate course with the highest academic level, organized by Grupo Clarín and the University of San Andrés, with the participation of the School of Journalism at Columbia University and the University of Bologna. It is led by renowned national and international journalists and academics. The Company sponsored the Graduate Program in Digital Journalism organized by Universitat Pompeu Fabra, TN and Google, which reinforces our commitment to enhance the quality of professionals in the 2.0 world. The Environment The Company continued to implement measures to identify, plan for and improve production processes in order to optimize results and react to potential impacts. Progress was made in achieving the period's goals by introducing sustainable methods to obtain and use resources, developing equipment investment policies, raising active awareness on the appropriate use of supplies and technologies and promoting the adoption and certification of environmental standards. Since 2004, Grupo Clarín has adhered to the United Nations Global Compact that sets forth several environmental protection standards. In addition, Grupo Clarín's Social Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Policy serves as a management guideline and drives the definition of goals for its subsidiaries. This is reflected in the environmental policies adopted by its subsidiaries, such as the one implemented by AGEA in 2012, which combines the improvement of environmental management with ISO 14001 certification and implementation for its production processes. 6 During 2018, AGEA updated its Environmental Policy in accordance with the 2015 version of the ISO 14001. This standard sets out that apart from taking into consideration the production site, companies should consider the context and the relevant stakeholders that may be affected. Consumption of Materials Within the framework of an environmental management policy oriented to eco-efficiency, Grupo Clarín and its subsidiaries mainly use energy, newsprint, ink, among others. Consumption in 2018 Paper related to the production of newspapers 28,854.67 Tons Office paper 23,547.00 U Ink 574.03 Tons Aluminum plates 124.32 Tons At the printing plants, the Company followed established guidelines to ensure the provision of materials at quality levels compatible with international standards for newsprint, inks and other specific inputs. Papel Prensa, a subsidiary in which Grupo Clarín owns an indirect minority interest, supplies most of the newsprint used in newspaper printing. Papel Prensa has put in place production policies based on the procurement of strategic inputs without depleting natural resources. Fiber comes from sustainable plantations. This is combined with ongoing research studies conducted concerning genetic enhancement of tree species in order to boost productivity, cut costs and guarantee ecosystem sustainability. As part of the sustainable process, the quantity of virgin raw materials is reduced through the recycling of returned newspapers and recovered paper acquired locally and regionally. 10% of the fiber is made of recycled paper, which is currently the largest percentage of that component that can be added to this process. The other 90% comes from aspens, willows and eucalyptus certified by PEFC's Chain of Custody, which provides assurance, through an independent third-party audit, on the traceability of the wood products through the supply chain, informing the buyer or consumer whether the certified product originates from sustainably managed forests. In addition, Papel Prensa has an agreement with the National Institute of Agricultural Technology (INTA, for its Spanish acronym) for the enhancement of the qualification of willows to be used in the wood pulp production process. Focusing on Circular Economy, we continue working on recovering waste paper from the process (printing errors, paper jam, etc.) and the unsold newspapers to sell them to Papel Prensa, which recycles newspapers and magazines through a modern deinking process. Power is the main additional resource used by Grupo Clarín and its subsidiaries. Grupo Clarín uses power from direct and indirect sources. Even though the Company has alternative power generators in place for offices and industrial facilities that require fuel, the main indirect consumption is the electricity provided by the power supply network. The Group intends to ensure that a percentage of the power comes from renewable sources and is analyzing proposals to acquire or generate this type of power. 7 Direct and indirect use of power by primary source in 2018 (in gJ): Electricity 136,371.53 Natural gas 26,911.68 Gasoline 2,645.56 Gasoil 4,869.87 CNG 12.88 Waste and Emissions Grupo Clarín's subsidiaries develop most of their activities in urban areas that are not in contact with natural areas and that meet effective urban planning standards. As to emissions, printing activities have the most significant impact on the carbon footprint among other services rendered by the Company. Therefore, the Company is exploring alternatives to improve processes and efficiency in these areas. In addition, the Company continues to enhance its analysis and inventory of CO2 emissions generated by the activities developed by is subsidiaries, especially those related to logistics and transportation. Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Weight in 2018 (in Tons of CO2) Direct emissions 1,838.19 Indirect emissions 20,156.26 Total emissions 21,994.45 Each subsidiary of Grupo Clarín identifies and manages waste production and disposal. As part of the treatment of industrial waste from printing processes, the Company's subsidiaries collect and separate certain waste materials, such as ink, oil, grease and solvents, which are sent to third party facilities for their recycling, reuse or safe final disposal. Hazardous waste is subject to a rigorous treatment handled by licensed waste management companies. Fully reusable materials are used in the printing process, such as aluminum plates. At the same time, the Company continues to develop strategies to reduce hazardous waste, with measured goals and progress. Total Waste Weight by Type in 2018 Urban or non-hazardous waste 691.805 Hazardous waste 115.762 Tons Tons Effluents resulting from the printing facilities' development processes are subject to rigorous treatments and measurements before disposal. A water re-usage system was put in place at AGEA’s Printing facility. Under its Environmental Management System, the Company significantly reduced effluents, which are only discharged in exceptional cases. At La Voz del Interior's printing facilities, waste water is subject to treatment and is then reused for irrigation at the Company's facilities. The figures in cubic meters disclosed below are mostly attributable to processed water that can be safely used for irrigation. The Company's office buildings and other facilities only discharge domestic waste water. 8 Total Waste Water Discharge at printing facilities in 2018 8,494.07 m3 OUR PEOPLE Grupo Clarín's success and leadership are mostly the result of the efforts, talent, professionalism and creativity of its employees. Grupo Clarín's media companies are among the preferred workplaces of communication professionals. Total headcount as of December 31, 2018 = 5,484 Employees broken down by gender 2018 Female Male Total 1,596 3,888 5,484 Employees broken down by age groups and gender 2018 Workers by Age Female employees Male employees Total Up to 30 years old 404 564 968 Between 31 and 50 years old 1,009 2,356 3365 Over 51 years old 183 968 1151 Total 1,596 3,888 5,484 Employee Turnover Ratio * 18.56% Female Male Workforce broken down by type of employment Total employees employees Part-time A certain number of hours less than two 82 167 249 thirds (2/3) of the regular working day. Full-time An 8-hour working day or a maximum of 1,514 3,721 5235 48 hours per week. Total 1,596 3,888 5,484 In order to work in line with the identity and diversity of the subsidiaries of Grupo Clarín, in 2016, the Company consolidated the concept of the Multicultural Social Ecosystem (ESM, for its Spanish acronym), driven by the human resources community. 9 With a view to strengthen the leadership and development of its leaders, Grupo Clarín implemented the Executive Mentoring Program with the participation of approximately 30 employees in strategic positions of the Company. In order to move forward with the development and growth of the Company's human resources professionals and in order to favor the coverage of future substitute worker schemes, we created, together with Universidad de San Andres, the one-year-long Degree in Human Resources. The project Success Factors, a human resources big data tool, which was implemented during 2017 and completed in 2018 with the installation of the main modules, has been very useful in order to have a single management system among Grupo Clarín’s different business units. The Company created a Success Factor Committee in order to optimize the use of the tool by working with the consultants specialized in the product worldwide, and to keep up to date with the system updates. At Grupo Clarín, we believe that the diversity of our teams is key to create innovative contents, products and services that reflect the diversity of our audiences. Therefore, in 2016, we created a diversity committee to generate policies and actions that promote those values. As a result, the Group's main media (Clarín, eltrece and La Voz del Interior) have adhered to the UN Women Step It Up for Gender Equality Media Compact, which promotes gender-sensitive contents and gender equality in newsrooms. In addition, at a corporate level, Grupo Clarín has adhered to the Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs) established by UN Women. During 2018, Grupo Clarín focused on the promotion of gender equality. We provided training on gender to directors and managers. In addition, with the support of UN Women, we provided training to journalists about how to address news from a gender-sensitive approach. On the other hand, the Group took the first steps towards hiring people with disabilities. The diversity committee met with governmental entities to learn more about similar initiatives and public policies regarding this issue. Gestión Compartida hired hearing impaired employees. Digital media convergence urges companies to address age diversity. In this sense, Grupo Clarín, as one of the first employment-generating companies, sealed an alliance with Fundación Forge, whose mission is to facilitate high quality job placement for low income young people through a training and employment program. The Company coordinated job searches for first-time employment with said Foundation. Grupo Clarín has an open dialog with union representatives to facilitate mutual understanding and conflict resolution. Employees freely exercise their right to unionize and are currently represented by several unions related to each of the activities developed by Grupo Clarín and its subsidiaries. Out of Grupo Clarín's total employees 65.81% is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Taking care of the work environment and conditions, health and job safety and employee training to enhance their professional skills are some of the actions aimed at consolidating the sense of integration and achievement of organizational goals. In addition, during the year, the Company created a safety and health committee in order to continue standardizing working conditions and fostering an appropriate work environment. During 2018, Grupo Clarín conducted the Internal Opinion Survey (EIO), which has been conducted since 1994 uninterruptedly. The Company updated the format of the survey to make it more agile, dynamic, digital and self-managed. The purpose of this process, which encompasses all of the Company’s subsidiaries, is that each business unit can visualize the status of the satisfaction and commitment indicators to be able to specifically work on them and improve the organizational environment. During 2018, our corporate volunteer program called Vos también continued with actions conducted by each of the Company's subsidiaries. They developed valuable initiatives for 10 employees’ solidarity actions in which volunteers had the chance to participate in programs with different themes. A cross-cutting action was proposed to all of Grupo Clarín's business units: Fin de año en Familia, a family support program that consists of delivering Christmas gift boxes to low income families. The program Vos También had a very high satisfaction level among participants. Vos También Volunteer Program in 2018 Volunteers 594 Direct beneficiaries 436 Hours of volunteer work 34.5 Employee's engagement 10.83% Benefits and Career Development Even though a large number of benefits are common to all the employees of Grupo Clarín, each Business Unit grants additional benefits, which may differ based on their respective activities. During 2018, “Nuestros Beneficios”, a benefit program aimed at all the employees of Grupo Clarín, combined proposals from its business units to offer benefits and discounts. In order to generate a greater commitment and identity with the Company, its subsidiaries offered a promotional price to encourage their employees to subscribe to the 365 Plus card together with the newspaper Diario Clarín. In addition, they offered new benefits such as discounts for the purchase of brand new cars and consumer products (Grupo Peñaflor, Della Casa and Unilever), discounts at educational institutions, fitness centers, and discounts for the purchase of electronic products. This year, the Company implemented the Success Factor tool for the performance assessment process called Crecimiento de la Efectividad Laboral (CEL, for its Spanish acronym), which allows all of the Group’s business units to have a single unified performance assessment process. Grupo Clarín focuses on investing in the training and development of its employees with two kinds of programs: On the one hand, the training programs of each Business Unit, focused on the specific needs of each activity, which allow Grupo Clarín's employees and professional staff to update and enhance their knowledge and skills through seminars, courses, graduate studies and MBAs. On the other hand, Grupo Clarín offers the Corporate Training Program (PCF, for its Spanish acronym), which includes a wide range of training proposals. During 2018, the Group offered new alternatives to improve the performance of the analysts and middle management of all the companies of Grupo Clarín. A total of 13 courses were given, with 311 employees enrolled, out of which 209 participated. In addition, we conducted two Executive Training Programs: A new edition of the Management Program (UADE), with the participation of 11 leaders, and the second edition of the Digital Immersion Program, held in Digital House, with the participation of 9 employees of different subsidiaries of the Group. The goal of this Digital Immersion Program is to provide participants with the tools required to develop and manage digital products and to monetize online businesses. In addition, the first edition of the Basic and Comprehensive Human Resources and Business Training Program was held, with the participation of 24 heads, officers and supervisors of Human Resources of all the Business Units of the Group. The program was designed by Universidad de San Andrés with the aim of providing a training and updating space for HR professionals that 11 work in the subsidiaries of the Group, in order to standardize the training of the professionals who graduated from different universities. In order to continue fostering internal mobility and give priority to our employees, the Group continued to actively promote the use of Open In-House Job posting (BIA, for its Spanish acronym.) This process provides equality and transparency for those who participate in job posting. During 2018, Grupo Clarín focused on improving the quality of employees' working life. It offered seminars and training programs about health issues and the prevention of illnesses and accidents, as well as other relevant topics, which supplemented the campaigns about health issues and medical check-ups. Several initiatives were implemented to promote safety and healthy lifestyle habits: Influenza vaccination, meditation workshops, soccer tournaments, evacuation drills, healthy menus and talks about first aid. In addition, during 2018, the subsidiaries of Grupo Clarín continued to provide their employees free annual medical check-ups. In order to contribute to the personal safety of our employees, 40% of our subsidiaries provides their employees with a transportation service to the main access points of public transportation. Work-Life Balance The Corporate Areas continued to offer the following benefits to their employees: flex Fridays, healthy breaks with massage, celebration of birthdays on Fridays and discounts at fitness centers. At a global level, Grupo Clarín also worked towards improving work-life balance. The highlights were: teleworking (at Autosports, CMI, Radio Mitre, Tinta Fresca and TyC Sports); flex Fridays (in Corporate Areas and in GCGC and TyC Sports), extended paternity leave (in Corporate Areas and in CMI, POL-KA and TyC Sports), reimbursement for childcare expenses (in Corporate Areas and in AGEA, ARTEAR, Autosports, CMI, Impripost, POL-KA and TyC Sports), day off on birthdays (AGEA, CMI, GCGC, Impripost, Tinta Fresca and TyC Sports) and additional vacation days (in Corporate Areas and in AGEA, CMI, Electro.net, Impripost, Los Andes, Radio Mitre and Telecor). During 2018, Grupo Clarín continued to strengthen its intention to generate more shared spaces. This is a major step for our diversity and work-life balance goals. These initiatives allow the development of women at work and also promote the creation of a diverse workforce, apart from having a positive impact on the health of babies and on family bonds. Diversity provides for a combination of skills and intellectual, technical and emotional competences that have proved to be essential to boost the results achieved by organizations. Relationship with the Value Chain Grupo Clarín's social responsibility management is embedded in its value chain. During 2018, the Company continued to explore alternatives of interaction or joint approach to common-interest issues at the various levels of relationship with its suppliers. Through Gestión Compartida, a subsidiary engaged in managing the relationship with most of the Group's suppliers, Grupo Clarín continued with the requirement for 100% of the new suppliers to undertake a commitment to the sustainability of their operations, with a focus on respect for human rights, the environment and compliance with effective regulations. 12
