Fuji Electric Report Contents Corporate Philosophy Editorial Policy Corporate Mission Corporate Philosophy / Fuji Electric Reports are important communication Management Policies / 02 President’s Message tools that are prepared and published for the We, Fuji Electric, pledge as responsible corporate citizens in a global society Brand Statement purpose of facilitating understanding of the Company’s corporate activities among its shareto strengthen our trust with communities, customers and partners. Fuji Electric’s Energy and holders, investors, and various other stakeholders. Our mission is to: Environment Businesses 03 In preparing Fuji Electric Report 2019, we sought to foster understanding with regard to ・Contribute to prosperity Fuji Electric’s efforts to create value over the President s Start of FY2023 Medium-Term medium-to-long-term. This report thus compiles ・Encourage creativity Management Plan— information on corporate activities aimed at conMessage Reiwa Prosperity 2023 05 tributing to the realization of a sustainable society ・Seek harmony with the environment Pursuit of Sustainable Growth in Energy through energy and environment businesses. The Review of Operations and Environment Businesses presentation of this information is framed in the new medium-term management plan announced Slogan in June 2019 and incorporates the perspective of Review of Fiscal 2018 Performance contributions to the accomplishment of the United To be enthusiastic, ambitious and sensitive. Operations Fiscal 2019 Management Plan 11 Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Information Disclosure Venues Power Electronics Systems Energy Fuji Electric Reports include highlights of financial Power Electronics Systems Industry 13 information as well as non-financial information pertaining to social and environmental issues. Electronic Devices 19 More detailed financial information can be found Management Policies Initiatives for in the Company’s financial results summaries and Food and Beverage Distribution 21 securities reports (Japanese only) on its investor relations website. Additional non-financial inforPower Generation 23 mation is available in the form of detailed explana hrough our innovation in energy and environment technology, we T Accomplishing the SDGs tions of Fuji Electric’s social and environmental contribute to the creation of responsible and sustainable societies. initiatives on the Company’s corporate website. Initiatives for 25 Achieve further growth through our global business expansion. Accomplishing Investor Relations Website: https://www.fujielectric.com/ir/ the SDGs Maximize our strengths as a team, respecting employees’ diverse ambition. Environmental, Social, and Governance Website: https://www.fujielectric.com/company/csr/ Material Management Material Material Issues to Reinforcing Management Operating Foundations 26 Disclaimer Regarding Forward-Looking Initiatives Initiatives Statements Fuji Electric Code of Conduct 27 Statements made in this report regarding estimates or projections are forward-looking statements based on the Company’s judgments and assumptions in light of currently People (Employees) 29 available information. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of uncertainties inherent in such Customers 31 judgments and assumptions as well as changes in business Brand Statement operations or other internal or external conditions. Business Partners 31 Accordingly, the Company gives no guarantee regarding the Corporate Information reliability of any information contained in these forwardlooking statements. Investors are encouraged to also referShareholders / Investors 32 ence documents submitted by the Company in accordance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act of Japan Environment 33 and other disclosure materials. Corporate Governance 37 Compliance 42 Brand Promise Risk Management 44 Through our pursuit of innovation in electric and thermal energy technology, we develop products that maximize energy efficiency and lead to Social Outreach (Local Communities) 46 a responsible and sustainable society. Corporate Information Corporate Data 47 01 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 02 Fuji Electric’s Energy and Environment Businesses Fuji Electric is committed to thoroughly exercising synergies between its core power semiconductor and power electronics technologies. By combining high-quality equipment employing key devices with engineering services, optimal control technologies, and IoT technologies developed through frontline operations, we will make contributions to the creation of responsible and sustainable societies in industrial and social infrastructure fields. SDGs to be Addressed through Energy and Environment Businesses Automation Value Created Clean energy Stable supply of energy Automation Energy saving Energy saving Four Businesses Power Electronics Systems Power Electronics Systems Electronic Food and Beverage Power Generation Five Segments Energy Industry Devices Distribution Business Fields Energy Power supply ED&C Social Vending Store Power and new energy and facility Factory automation Semiconductors management components solutions machines distribution systems System solutions that combine components with engineerSystem Solutions ing services, optimal control technologies, and IoT technologies to create value that is beneficial for society Optimal Control Technologies Engineering Services IoT Components Smart meters Transformers Uninterruptible Molded-case Magnetic switches Inverters Motors Servo systems Controllers Measuring power systems circuit breakers instruments World-leading power semiconductors Sensors utilizing various applied technologies Key Devices for regulating electricity that underpin safe operations Power semiconductors Sensors Internet of Things (IoT): Framework for fundamentally revolutionizing business and our daily lives by connecting various objects through networks and enabling them to achieve optimal, autonomous control of one another 03 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 04 President’s Message Start of FY2023 Medium-Term Management Plan—Reiwa Prosperity 2023 Review of Fiscal 2010 to Fiscal 2018 Pursuit of Sustainable Growth in Business Restructuring, Growth Strategies, and bases and promoted global procurement in order to expand Energy and Environment Businesses Further Renovation our overseas operations. We thoroughly pursued local production and local consumption. We had previously over-emphaPresident’s Message Looking back on the 10 years since fiscal 2009, we have sized the importance of our production bases in China but we worked hard to boost profitability through a number of initiaestablished a system in which products to be sold in China are tives. These initiatives include realizing innovation of our busimade in China, and products to be sold in Asia are made in ness structure in the immediate aftermath of the global Asia, thereby promoting the expansion of overseas production financial crisis, abolishing the holding company system, and bases and global procurement. In addition, we proactively restructuring our organization with the aim of integrating busiconducted M&A activities and collaboration with the aim of ness management. At the same time, we reduced the number capturing human resources and sales channels, establishing of executive officers from 53 to 18 to create an executive the companies as development and engineering bases censystem that would facilitate the speed of decision making. tered on China and other parts of Asia. Through Putting our Corporate Philosophy and Record-Breaking Operating Income Posted for From 2013, when we had made good progress toward To enable Fuji Electric to unite and maximize its strengths, Management Policies into Practice, We are Second Consecutive Year and All Targets of strengthening our foundations, we looked to the future by I believe that it will be vital to transcend organizational and Contributing to the Creation of Sustainable Societies FY2018 Medium-Term Management Plan Achieved promoting growth strategies, such as conducting proactive national boundaries while enhancing the capabilities of individuinvestments including M&A, as we continued to achieve als. An example of that is the Companywide Pro-7 Activities Global society is currently engaged in a movement to achieve In fiscal 2018, the final year of the FY2018 Medium-Term increases in revenue and earnings. Moreover, as a result of that we started in 2012 with a view to improving profitability. economic growth while simultaneously addressing social and Management Plan, Renovation 2018, which adopted “further improved business performance, we were able to increase These activities, in which employees review the way they work environmental issues. This movement can be seen in the United renovation of Fuji Electric” as its basic policy, we implemented dividend payments to shareholders almost every year and from the ground up by forming teams and setting tasks and Nations Sustainable Development Goals, a set of international growth strategies and pursued improved profitability. properly reward employees with bonuses. targets, are designed to improve work quality and efficiency. goals for realizing a sustainable society, and the Paris In fiscal 2018, net sales increased to ¥914.9 billion and Since assuming the office of president of Fuji Electric, I The greatest achievement of these activities is their permeation Agreement, an international framework for combating global operating income rose to ¥60.0 billion, as we recorded year-onhave consistently emphasized the expansion of our energy to all corners of frontline operations, changing the awareness of warming. Companies, too, are expected to take part in proacyear increases in revenue and earnings, and record-high and environment businesses, globalization, and teamwork, in employees. The accumulation of these steady efforts has raised tive efforts toward these goals as responsible members of income for the second consecutive year. These results were accordance with our management policies. In addition, I have the level of profit improvements. society. Acting in accordance with Fuji Electric’s corporate driven by robust demand for investment in equipment in Japan, also emphasized augmenting our manufacturing capabilities— At the same time, we have made great efforts to augment philosophy of “contribute to prosperity,” “encourage creativity,” despite a trend toward investment restraint in the Chinese our starting point as a manufacturer and the source of our our manufacturing capabilities in order to strengthen our factoand “seek harmony with the environment,” the Company bases market in the second half of the fiscal year due to the trade earnings. With “benchmarks are the way of the old Fuji ries, which is the source of our profits. In addition to training its management policies on contributing to the creation of friction between the United States and China. Furthermore, the Electric” as our motto, we have worked to create a culture engineers and technicians, we have promoted the visualization of sustainable societies through its energy and environment busisuccessful achievement of all the management targets of the that is conducive to thinking about how we can achieve our costs for each product and business. By pursuing in-house nesses. This direction indicated by Fuji Electric’s corporate FY2018 Medium-Term Management Plan, including the finangoals, without being tied to conventional methods or thinking. manufacturing, automation, and standardization with the goal of philosophy is compatible with enhancing the three areas of cial targets, instilled great confidence into employees. We clarified energy and the environment as Fuji Electric’s achieving cost reductions and enhancing productivity, we have society, economy, and environment. business domains by integrating and reorganizing the three busisuccessfully revamped our production technology capabilities. Going forward, we will continue to sincerely put our corponess segments of Industrial Infrastructure, Social Infrastructure, We have also recently embarked upon the automation of quality rate philosophy and management policies into practice while and Power Electronics, to establish the power electronics syscontrol documentation, thereby heightening their reliability. further refining our energy and environment technology. By tems business in 2017. We made this change in order to pursue Moreover, as a way to strengthen technological developworking together with our customers and business partners to synergies in related businesses, with a focus on power electronics ment capabilities, we are bolstering cooperation among develsolve social and environmental issues and create customer technologies, an area of strength for the Company. opers while increasing speed and efficiency by constructing value, we will contribute to the creation of responsible and FY2018 With the aim of strengthening cost-competitiveness and development wings at each of the three power electronics FY2017 Medium-Term FY2018 sustainable societies. Results Management Results minimizing geopolitical risks, we expanded overseas production systems and electronic devices global mother factories in (Billions of yen) Plan (Target) Japan, in order to gather together researchers and engineers. Net Sales 893.5 900.0 914.9 Operating Income 56.0 54.0 60.0 Business Strengthen a Profitable Structure Implement Growth Further Renovation of Performance Trends through Business Restructuring Strategies Fuji Electric (Billions of yen) Operating Margin 6.3% 6.0% 6.6% 914.9 893.5 837.8 (6.6%) Net Income Attributable to 810.7 813.6 （6.3%） Owners of Parent 37.8 34.0 40.3 759.9 745.8 691.2 689.1 703.5 （5.5%） （5.3%） （4.8%） 60.0 （4.4%） 56.0 Resolution of Social and Creation of Customer Value Financial Indicators Environmental Issues （2.9%） 45.0 44.7 41.0 40.3 Fuji Electric’s Vision Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio* 0.4 times 0.7 times 0.4 times Net Sales 39.3 37.8 （2.7%） 33.1 Operating Income 30.6 28.0 Contribute to the creation of Equity Ratio 36% 32% 37% Net Income （1.7%） 26.4 Attributable to Owners 22.0 19.6 responsible and sustainable societies of Parent （0.1%） 15.1 19.3 ROA 4% 4% 4% Operating Margin 11.9 11.8 6.8 0.9 ROE 12% 12% 12% Energy and environment businesses Financial Indicators 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY) *Net interest-bearing debt / Shareholders’ equity Equity Ratio 20% 19% 21% 25% 28% 32% 27% 33% 36% 37% Corporate Contribute to Encourage Seek harmony with the Philosophy prosperity creativity environment ROE 4% 9% 7% 15% 9% 11% 12% 16% 12% 12% Dividends per Share 7.5 20 20 25 35 45 50 55 70 80 (Yen) Note: Dividends were calculated making reference to the share consolidation of October 1, 2018. 05 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 06 Recognizing the proliferation of electrified vehicles (xEVs) and system factories. By coordinating manufacturing, engineering, FY2023 Medium-Term Management Plan “Reiwa Prosperity 2023” the spread of renewable energy as growth opportunities, we will and services with sales bases in Asian countries, we will grow the Electronic Devices segment through our power semiachieve business expansion. Moreover, as new products and Establishing Foundations for Sustainable Growth FY2023 Medium-Term Management Plan Key Issues conductors, for which Fuji Electric possesses world-leading new businesses result from Fuji Electric’s proprietary technoltechnologies. ogy, we will focus efforts on expanding sales of SiC-equipped In fiscal 2019, the start of the Reiwa era in Japan, we launched Establish Foundations for Sustainable Growth Meanwhile, we will seek profitability for the Power Generation power electronics products for railroad applications and sysPresident’s Message a new five-year Medium-Term Management Plan. The plan has and Food and Beverage Distribution segments by promoting tems for ships. fiscal 2023 as its final year—the 100th anniversary of Fuji Promote Growth Strategies Further Improve Profitability business portfolio reform through business selection and conElectric’s founding. “Reiwa Prosperity 2023” articulates our aim centration, rather than pursuing sales expansion. In Power Expanding Sales Outside Japan and Augmenting to prosper with society by 2023 through our energy and envi• Concentrate resources on Generation, where the global movement to phase out coal-fired ronment businesses. growth fields (power electronics systems and power • Augment global thermal power is picking up speed, we will shift to the field of Manufacturing Capabilities Globally The five years toward fiscal 2023 are a time for strengthensemiconductors) manufacturing capabilities renewable energies and distributed power supply such as geoWith a focus on Southeast Asia, India, and China as key ing our foundations as a company that realizes ongoing growth. • Expand overseas businesses thermal power generation, in which we have a leading market regions with high growth potential due to energy conservation With a focus on implementing growth strategies and further share around the world, while bolstering after-sales businesses. and automation investments in industrial and social infrastrucimproving profitability, we will also enhance management quality Ongoing Reinforcement of Operating Foundations In Food and Beverage Distribution, we will expand both our ture and the proliferation of electric vehicles (EVs), we will from a long-term perspective by addressing the management vending machine business in China and Southeast Asia and our increase the ratio of sales outside Japan to total net sales from base that supports our operations on a global scale, regarding Environment Human Resources Governance systems business that facilitates the efficiency of vending 25% to 35%. such matters as the environment, human resources, and corpoEvolution of Companywide Pro-7 Activities machine operations and labor and power-saving at stores. We will increase sales in Asia, the region with the biggest rate governance. sales volume, centered on power electronics systems. Concentrating Management Resources on Power Meanwhile, power semiconductors for EVs will be the driver of Target Net Sales of ¥1 Trillion and Operating growth in China and Europe. Margin of 8.0% or more for Fiscal 2023 Electronics Systems and Power Semiconductors In parallel with expanding operations overseas, we will Growth Centered on Power Electronics Systems and redouble efforts to promote local production and local conIn order to reinforce strong businesses and expand operations, Among the management targets for fiscal 2023, net sales of ¥1 Electronic Devices and Emphasis on Profits in Power we will concentrate management resources on power electronsumption while augmenting global manufacturing capabilities trillion and an operating margin of 8.0% or more are the ones Generation and Food and Beverage Distribution ics systems and power semiconductors, allocating 90% of in order to increase profits. By transferring the production on which we place the most importance. In regard to financial plant and equipment investment and 80% of research and technology capabilities cultivated at regional mother factories indicators, we have adopted targets that emphasize balancing As the need for improved energy efficiency and energy conserdevelopment (R&D) expenditures to the two businesses. in Thailand and China to related factories overseas, we will growth potential, profitability, and efficiency with financial vation in the industrial world increases toward the pursuit of the Although the amount of plant and equipment investment promote their autonomy. Human resource development will be soundness. Those targets have a net debt-to-equity ratio of 0.1 realization of a low-carbon society, we are seeing an expansion in power semiconductors of ¥120.0 billion accounts for about vital to these initiatives. At Fuji Electric Manufacturing times, an equity ratio of 50.0%, and ROE of 11.0%. In terms of in business opportunities that allow Fuji Electric to leverage its half of total plant and equipment investment, in regard to the (Thailand) Co., Ltd., which we have positioned as an Asian capital efficiency, we will achieve qualitative improvement of strengths in power electronics technology and power semiconautomotive field in particular, we will steadily increase investregional mother factory, local staff played a central role in ROE by enhancing profits and reducing working capital. We ductor technology. Responding proactively to this favorable ment to strengthen production capacity while carefully providing guidance to factories in India and France in starting have positioned the next five years as a stage for conducting market situation, we will target expanding sales from Power assessing market trends and controlling risk. As for R&D, we a low-voltage inverter production line. In such ways, the coorproactive investments in pursuit of business expansion. Electronics Systems and Electronic Devices so that they will focus on developing new products aimed at increasing dination among overseas bases is growing. We will step up Nevertheless, we aim to achieve a dividend payout ratio of 30% account for about 80% of total consolidated sales and profits. sales in the automotive field as well as continuing to focus the cultivation of local leaders to further accelerate the autonas soon as possible for shareholder returns while maintaining A major strength of Fuji Electric’s power electronics systems efforts on the development of next-generation SiC power omy of overseas production bases. sufficient funds for growth investments such as capital investbusiness is that it is a one-stop shop for addressing various semiconductor modules in pursuit of future sales expansion. Moreover, in addition to the in-house manufacturing, automent, research and development, and human resource investissues faced by customers. As the leading manufacturer of We have made progress in power electronics systems mation, and standardization that we have pursued to date, we ment. Furthermore, we recognize that it is debatable whether power semiconductors, we have an advantage over others. We with respect to the development of global products as well as will also promote manufacturing innovations that leverage IoT an equity ratio of 50% is an appropriate level and we will condevelop competitive component products equipped with power the standardization and bundling of systems. In addition, our technologies in order to augment manufacturing capabilities tinue to consider that and other points, including utilization of semiconductors that address a variety of issues, from energy partnership strategy in China and the rest of Asia has become globally. We will build a platform with information on designs, growth investments and our policy on cross-shareholdings, as stabilization and optimization to factory energy conservation clear as a result of collaborations and M&A activities, and we purchasing, production, and testing from every overseas prowe pursue further enhancement of capital efficiency. and automation through systems with added engineering, will expand the systems business overseas on a full-scale duction base to facilitate the advancement of coordination service, and IoT technologies. With the strength of our power basis over the next five years. At Fuji Electric Manufacturing through the visualization and sharing of information, and link electronics systems business, we will leverage the expertise we (Thailand) Co., Ltd., which will serve as a core production site that to shortening lead times, reducing the amount of work in have cultivated in Japan to expand operations centered on in Asia, we have established switchgear and controlgear progress, and improving cash flow. energy management, power supply and facility systems, and automation systems. FY2023 Management Targets FY2023 FY2018 Medium-Term FY2018–FY2023 Net Sales Operating Income Plant and Equipment Investment R&D Expenditures Overseas Sales Results Management Change (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Plan (Target) 35% 220.0 200.0 350.0 Net Sales 914.9 1,000.0 +85.1 1,000.0 80.0 2.0 Shared Ratio of Overseas Sales 5.0 Power Generation 914.9 60.0 3.0 Others 15.0 Food and Beverage 175.2 15.0 Shared 27.0 Americas Operating Income 60.0 80.0 +20.0 5.6 Power Generation Distribution 11.0 Power Generation 25% 30.0 Europe 62.2 80.0 60.0 8.5 Food and Beverage 153.6 13.6 15.0 Food and Beverage 107.0 120.0 Distribution 9.4 12.5 Distribution 232.4 Operating Margin 6.6% 8.0% +1.4pt 113.6 2.8 4.8 22.0 Electronic Devices 13.2 Electronic Devices 200.0 6.0 120.0 Electronic Devices 15.8 135.0 China 5.8 15.0 (power semiconductors) 74.0 16.5 Net Income Attributable 137.3 (power semiconductors) 62.4 to Owners of Parent 40.3 55.0 +14.7 15.6 90% 78.4 80% 65.8 80% 75% 80% 71% Power Electronics 78% Financial Indicators 600.0 79% 48.0 546.6 Systems Power Electronics 158.0 Asia and others 36.2 Power Electronics 77.2 85.0 78.0 Systems 121.7 Systems Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio 0.4 times 0.1 times – 0.3 53.7 Equity Ratio 37% 50% +13pt Elimination and 2014–2018 2019–2023 (FY) 2014–2018 2019–2023 (FY) 2018 2023 (FY) –51.9 –60.0 –5.2 –7.0 Corporation Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative Cumulative Results Medium-Term ROA 4% 5% +1pt Results (Target) Results (Target) Management 2018 2023 2018 2023 (FY) Plan ROE 12% 11% –1pt Results Medium-Term Management Results Medium-Term Management (Target) Plan Plan Payout Ratio 28% 30% +2pt (Target) (Target) Note: Assumed exchange rates for fiscal 2023: ¥105 to the U.S. dollar; ¥123 to the Euro; ¥16 to Note: Ratios for Power Electronics Systems and Electronic Devices are calculated based on Note: Figures for R&D expenditures are allocated by research theme and therefore differ from the RMB amounts before elimination and adjustment of inter-segment transactions those in the consolidated financial report 07 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 08 Ongoing Reinforcement of Operating Foundations Toward Sustainable Growth Enhancing the Transparency of Management Realizing “Enthusiastic, Ambitious and Fuji Electric is reinforcing its operating foundations toward the Thorough Reinforcement of Global Compliance Sensitive” Employees enhancement of corporate value over the long term, including President’s Message initiatives for environmental preservation, human resource develFuji Electric established a voluntary Nomination and Since I believe that it is important to contribute to society opment, and corporate governance. Moreover, the Company Remuneration Committee composed of a majority of Outside through work and take ownership of one’s own growth, I revised its Code of Conduct, which sets forth guidelines for the Directors and with an Outside Director as its chairman. The directly convey the slogan adopted in our corporate philosoconduct of employees, to incorporate the concepts of the United committee began its activities in July 2019. Although we have phy—“to be enthusiastic, ambitious and sensitive”—to Nations Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals. I long been appointing Outside Officers to strengthen the manemployees at production and sales bases in Japan and overbelieve that awareness among employees, including Group seas. In this slogan, “enthusiasm” means the desire to conagement supervisory function and auditing function, we will employees overseas, is an important issue. tribute to society by creating new technologies and products. further enhance management transparency through the Nomination and Remuneration Committee going forward. “Ambition” means setting lofty goals and working to achieve Strengthening Human Resources Moreover, as a result of the expansion of overseas busithem with a strong spirit, no matter what challenges may be Amid a falling birthrate and an aging society in Japan, Fuji nesses, we will conduct thorough compliance reinforcement faced. “Sensitive” means valuing customers, allies, and the Electric is faced with management issues such as the aging of at overseas subsidiaries while, in terms of risk management, families that support us. This sensitivity truly represents Fuji its labor force, globalization, and changes in its business strucwe will strengthen business continuity capabilities and inforElectric’s corporate DNA. By having all employees sharing the ture. Against this backdrop, it is becoming increasingly imporDevelop Pro-7 Activities and Pursue Prosperity values of our management slogan engage in Pro-7 Activities, I mation security countermeasures. tant to strengthen human resources, which are the source of a When we launched the Companywide Pro-7 Activities, our firmly believe that the Company’s management base will work company’s competitiveness. In this environment, the handing goal was to contribute directly to profits by lowering costs and as a team and grow even stronger. down of skills from generation to generation has been a perenContributing to the Environment through Our improving profit margins. However, the goal is now work itself. Fuji Electric will continue to put its management slogan into nial issue. About 100 employees aged 65 or over are currently Business Activities We practice self-monitoring and review every aspect of our practice, utilize the comprehensive strength of teams of diverse, engaged in the instruction and development of young employwork from the ground up and promote the Activities through In June 2019, we created the Environmental Vision 2050, which individual employees, and contribute to the creation of sustainees and it is necessary to treat highly skilled employees approthe three pillars of enhancing work efficiency and quality, and aims to make contributions to the supply chain for the realizaable societies through our energy and environment businesses. priately. In addition, we will develop a system to ensure that workstyle reforms designed to improve productivity. Ultimately, employees aged 60 or over with excellent track records, not tion of a low-carbon society, recycling-oriented society, and In closing, we would like to ask for the continued support of all what we are targeting through Pro-7 Activities is prosperity as just engineers, receive treatment that is matched to the value of society in harmony with nature. As specific targets for achieving a company, returns to shareholders, and the happiness of our stakeholders. their work. a low-carbon society, we have adopted quantitative targets for employees. We will pursue prosperity for the customers who In regard to female empowerment, we will continue to fiscal 2030, such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions during support and trust us, the shareholders who back us, and our July 2019 proactively hire female employees while pursuing planned production by 31% and reducing CO2 emissions by 50 million employees and their families. career development and cultivation in order to increase the tons annually through our products. number of female employees in supervisory positions. Fuji Electric’s strength is that it is able to contribute to sociToday, the issue warranting the most attention is the line ety through its energy and environment businesses. Going management of middle managers, who are the core of every forward, we will contribute to efforts to combat global warming team. This issue was brought to the fore in the employee together with our customers and business partners. Michihiro Kitazawa awareness surveys that we continuously conduct. We will step up our efforts to an even greater extent than before to cultivate President and Chairman of the Board of Directors middle managers while improving their amount of experience through planned rotation, thereby developing the human resources who will lead the Fuji Electric of tomorrow. Establishment of Foundation for Sustainable Growth through Companywide Pro-7 Activities Fuji Electric Environmental Vision 2050 Fuji Electric’s prosperity We aim to achieve a “Low-Carbon Society,” “Recycling-Oriented Society,” and “Society in Harmony with Employee Shareholder happiness returns Nature” by expanding use of Fuji Electric’s innovative clean Prosperity energy technology and energy-saving products. Realize a Low-Carbon Society Target a reduction of 80% or more in greenhouse gas emissions Enhancement across the supply chain of work quality Pro-7 Realize a Society in Realize a RecyclingHarmony with Nature Oriented Society Aim for zero influence on the Promote green supply chains ecosystem by corporate and 3R* activities to reduce activities contributing to environmental impact to zero biodiversity Improvement of Workstyle work efficiency reforms *Reduce, Reuse, Recycle 09 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 10 Review of Operations Fiscal 2018 Performance Fiscal 2019 Management Plan Seeking to complete the FY2018 Medium-Term Management In fiscal 2019, the first year of the FY2023 Medium-Term FY2018 FY2018 FY2019 Plan, Fuji Electric strengthened the power electronics systems FY2017 FY2018 Medium-Term Management Plan, Fuji Electric will strengthen the power elecManagement Plan Change Change Results business and aggressively invested in the expansion of its power Results Results Management tronics systems business, aggressively invest in and expand its (Billions of yen) (Target) (Billions of yen) Plan (Target) semiconductor operations while also pursuing increased profitpower semiconductor operations, and pursue improvements in Net Sales 914.9 930.0 +15.1 ability by further enhancing manufacturing capabilities and reNet Sales 893.5 914.9 +21.5 900.0 operational efficiency and work quality through Pro-7 Activities. energizing the Companywide Pro-7 Activities that are aimed at Operating Income 60.0 62.0 +2.0 improving work quality. Operating Income 56.0 60.0 +4.0 54.0 We will target net sales of ¥930.0 billion in fiscal 2019, a Consolidated net sales in fiscal 2018 increased ¥21.5 billion year-on-year increase of ¥15.1 billion, while working toward a Operating Margin 6.6% 6.7% +0.1pt year on year, to ¥914.9 billion, due to higher demand centered Operating Margin 6.3% 6.6% +0.3pt 6.0% record-breaking ¥62.0 billion in operating income, an increase Net Income Attributable to on the Power Electronics Systems—Energy Solutions segment, Net Income Attributable of ¥2.0 billion. Companywide performance is expected to be Owners of Parent 40.3 40.4 +0.1 to Owners of Parent 37.8 40.3 +2.5 34.0 the Electronic Devices segment, and the Power and New driven by higher sales volumes of inverters, other components, Energy segment. Despite the impacts of slowdown in demand and ship exhaust gas cleaning systems in the Power Financial Indicators seen in the second half of the fiscal year as well as increased Financial Indicators Electronics Systems Industry segment and of automotive and Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio 0.4 times 0.4 times — Review of Operations costs associated with a large-scale project in the Power and Net Debt-to-Equity Ratio* 0.4 times 0.4 times — 0.7 times other power semiconductors in the Electronic Devices segNew Energy segment, operating income rose ¥4.0 billion year Equity Ratio 37% 40% +3pt Equity Ratio 36% 37% +1pt 32% ment. During fiscal 2019, capital expenditures and R&D activion year, to ¥60.0 billion. ROA 4% 4% — ROA 4% 4% — 4% ties will be primarily aimed at the Power Electronics Systems As a result, we achieved the targets of the FY2018 MediumROE 12% 11% –1pt Term Management Plan for net sales, operating income, and net ROE 12% 12% — 12% segment and the Electronic Devices segment (namely power income attributable to owners of parent as well as for all relevant *Net interest-bearing debt / Shareholders’ equity semiconductors), both areas where we anticipate growth. Note: A  ssumed exchange rates for fiscal 2019: ¥105 to the U.S. dollar; ¥123 to the Euro; ¥16 to the RMB financial indicators. Net Sales Operating Income Net Sales Operating Income 概況 2019 年度経営計画 (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of 概況 yen) 2019 年度経営計画営業利益 914.9 60.0 (Change) 914.9 930.0 (Change) 62.0 (Change) 893.5 (Change) 56.0 2.8 Others 60.0 Others 60.0 2.2 Others 62.2 Others 62.2 60.4 2.9 4.8 Power and New Energy –0.8 Power Generation +9.0 2.8 4.3 Power Generation –0.5 107.0 116.0 96.9 107.0 Power and New Energy +10.1 5.5 5.8 Food and Beverage Distribution –0.5 4.8 6.6 Food and Beverage Distribution +0.8 113.6 Food and Beverage Distribution 0.0 5.8 113.6 Food and Beverage Distribution –4.1 6.2 113.6 117.8 15.6 Electronic Devices +1.9 150.3 Electronic Devices +12.9 17.5 Electronic Devices +1.9 137.3 Electronic Devices +10.5 137.3 15.6 126.9 13.7 Power Electronics Systems— Power Electronics Systems Power Electronics Systems Power Electronics Systems— 19.4 322.5 332.0 19.4 21.9 321.0 321.9 18.9 Industry Solutions +0.5 Industry +9.5 Industry +2.5 Industry Solutions +1.0 Power Electronics Systems Power Electronics Systems Power Electronics Systems— Power Electronics Systems— 224.1 220.0 16.8 16.8 217.6 224.8 14.0 16.9 Energy –4.1 Energy 0.0 Energy Solutions +7.2 Energy Solutions +2.8 –51.9 –61.9 Elimination –5.2 Elimination and Corporation –47.1 –52.0 Elimination –5.3 –5.2 Elimination and Corporation –7.4 2018 2019 (FY) 2018 2019 (FY) 2017 2018 (FY) 2017 2018 (FY) Results Management Plan Results Management Plan Results Results Results Results (Target) (Target) Note: The Power Electronics Systems—Energy Solutions and Power Electronics Systems—Industry Solutions segments have been reorganized to form the Power Electronics Systems Energy and Power Electronics Systems Industry segments from fiscal 2019. In addition, the Power and New Energy segment has been renamed the Power Generation segment. Figures for fiscal 2018 have been restated to reflect these changes. Major Initiatives by Segment Plant and Equipment Investment R&D Expenditures 概況 設備投資 Change 概況 研究開発 Change Segment Major Initiatives (Billions of yen) +10.4 (Billions of yen) +3.5 53.7 0.6 Shared 37.2 • Expanded comprehensive electrical equipment supply operations (semiconductor factories, data centers, 1.1 Power Generation 0.0 33.7 3.0 Shared Power Electronics Systems— 2.6 oil depots, etc.) 43.3 Food and Beverage Distribution +0.3 1.8 Power Generation +0.2 3.2 Energy Solutions • Aggressively capitalized on substation replacement demand 1.0 1.6 3.0 Food and Beverage Distribution +0.4 1.1 • Commercialized new storage battery systems using reused electric vehicle storage batteries 2.3 2.6 34.1 Electronic Devices +6.0 13.7 Electronic Devices +0.5 • Developed ship exhaust gas cleaning systems and delivered first unit 13.2 • Established joint venture company with Dalian Bingshan Group Co., Ltd., to strengthen system operations 28.1 Power Electronics Systems— in China Power Electronics Systems • Commenced production of low-voltage inverters in India and France Power Electronics Systems 9.7 Industry +0.5 Industry Solutions • Developed and launched OnePackEdge package bundling everything from production floor data collection 6.1 Industry +1.8 9.2 4.3 Power Electronics Systems to analysis 9.1 Power Electronics Systems 6.0 • Developed inverters for railcars 6.5 Energy +2.6 3.9 Energy +2.1 2018 2019 (FY) 2018 2019 (FY) • Invested in power semiconductor production capacity increases Results Management Plan Results Management Plan Electronic Devices • Advanced development of 4th-generation direct liquid-cooling automotive modules (Target) (Target) Note: F  igures for R&D expenditures above have been divided by segment based on theme and may therefore differ from the figures contained in the consolidated • Expanded lineup of vending machines (IoT-powered, beverage, food and other items) for the Chinese financial report for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. Food and Beverage market Segment Major Plant and Equipment Investment Major R&D Expenditures Distribution • Commenced production of vending machines for the Southeast Asia market (P.T. Fuji Metec Semarang) • Developed and deployed store fixtures and equipment for addressing labor shortages Power Electronics Systems Energy Construction of switchgear and controlgear Global products (transformers, switchgears, etc.) system factories (Thailand) Power Electronics Systems Industry Ship exhaust gas cleaning systems, etc. SiC-equipped power electronics devices, factory automation • Commenced on-site construction in Kenya for first geothermal power generation plant order received in systems, servo systems, etc. Power and New Energy Africa Increased power semiconductor production IGBTs for electric vehicles, 7th-generation IGBTs (large-capacity • Received several scrap and build* orders pertaining to hydro power generation systems Electronic Devices capacity series), etc. * Projects in which aged, inefficient facilities are decommissioned and replaced with new facilities to improve efficiency Food and Beverage Distribution — Vending machines for Chinese and Asian markets, energy-saving and labor-saving store distribution products Power Generation — Service technologies and products 11 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 12 The Power Electronics Systems Energy segment, which contributes to the stable supply and optimization of energy, and the Power Electronics Systems Energy segment, which realizes automation and energy saving at factories, operate their busiPower Electronics Systems Energy / Industry nesses under shared policies as Fuji Electric’s power electronics systems business. Based on these shared policies, we seek to create competitive components through synergies with our core power semiconductor and power electronics technologies; reinforce systems operations by combining engineering services, optimal control technologies, and IoT technologies; and expand overseas operations. Priority Measures for Fiscal 2019 Value Created Stable Supply and Optimization of Energy Automation and Energy Saving Social Infrastructure Field (Power / Telecommunications) Industrial Field (Assembly Processing / Materials) Transportation Field Creation of Competitive Components Review of Operations Fuji Electric will accelerate the development of transformCustoers, switchgears and controlgears, and others to create mers competitive global products. Another focus of development is differentiated products equipped with next-generation SiC power semiconductors that contribute to the realization of more efficient and comSegment Power Electronics Systems Energy Power Electronics Systems Industry pact equipment. In this area, we are moving ahead with the development of traction converters for railcars. Substation Equipment / Energy Management Drive Control / Monitoring Control Systems Systems for Railcars Electric Facility Expansion of Overseas Businesses by Construction Monitoring and Control Systems Systems for Material Plants Drive systems for Leveraging Systems Passenger door systems high-speed railcars Fuji Electric is stepping up development of high-value-added systems that combine standardized product and system bundles with engineering services and IoT technologies. Acting in accordance with our basic principle of local Switchgears and Controlgears production and consumption, we will ramp up local Principal Systems design in China and other parts of Asia, move ahead with the construction of switchgear and controlgear system Comprehensive Data factories at Fuji Electric Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Electricity Storage Control Systems Operational Information Collection Systems Ship Exhaust Gas Cleaning Systems Information Network Center Systems Ltd., and establish engineering centers. At the same for Assembly and Processing Equipment Systems Power conditioning systems Power stabilizers Modular data centers SOx scrubbers Laser type gas analyzers Inverters time, we will look to expand overseas operations through partner strategies with affiliates and with companies acquired through M&A activities. China We will pursue collaboration with Shanghai Electric Group Co., Ltd., to promote sales of control systems that support stable operation at material factories. At the same time, we will work together with Dalian Bingshan Group Co., Ltd., to expand sales of energy management systems for contributing to energy saving and optimization at beverage factories. Control Equipment Southeast Asia Controllers Programmable displays Transmission and distribution systems and comprehensive electrical equipment supply operations will be fortiMajor Components fied through launches of new products while the sales channels of Fuji CAC Joint Stock Company are used to expand sales of control systems for cement factories. India Transmission and Distribution / ED&C Components Drive Equipment Measuring Instruments Power Supplies In addition to leveraging the sales channels of Fuji Gemco Transformers Uninterruptible power Magnetic Molded-case Inverters Motors Servo systems Ultrasonic Gas analyzers Private Limited to grow sales of steel plant control systems, systems (UPSs) switches circuit breakers flowmeters we will also seek to expand our power supply operations through the newly acquired Consul Neowatt Power Solutions Pvt Ltd. This company’s technologies, manufacturing capabilities, and sales channels will be used to bolster local production and consumption systems in India in order to grow our operations in this market. 13 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 14 Close-Up Expand overseas businesses by leveraging Contributing to the stable supply and optimization of electricity through the comPower Electronics proposal bundles for electrical equipment Executive Officer prehensive electrical equipment business for factories and facilities Systems Energy Fuji Electric contributes to the stable supply and optimization of electricity by performing everything up to and including Corporate General Manager, Power Electronics Systems Energy Business Group design, installation work, and maintenance services for electrical equipment at factories and facilities. Masahiro Morimoto Comprehensive Factory and Facility Electrical Equipment Business Model Key to success in System Design, Installation Work, and Maintenance Services comprehensive electrical equipment Net Sales Operating Income (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Priority Measures for Fiscal 2019 Prepare Protect Conserve Initiatives toward standardization of switchelectricity equipment energy gear and controlgear We will expand our transmission and distribution systems busi224.1 220.0 Operating Change 7.5% 7.6% Margin ness and comprehensive electrical equipment business overAt our Kobe factory, the Review of Operations –4.1 16.8 16.8 seas through Asian manufacturing and engineering and Change mother factory of our 0.0 capabilities in proposal bundles cultivated in Japan. switchgear and controlgear Stable supply business, we have improved Strengthen systems for Asian manufacturing and the external form, capacity, engineering and optimization structure, and circuit design Transformers GIS* EMS We will construct switchgear and controlgear system factories of electricity of more than 10,000 high at Fuji Electric Manufacturing (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (FMT), and voltage switchgear and 2018 2019 (FY) 2018 2019 (FY) Results Management Results Management build a new engineering center in order to consolidate engineercontrolgear over the past ten Plan Plan ing staff, who had previously been dispersed. Through coordiyears, resulting in standard(Target) (Target) izing specifications. These nation between the engineering center and the technological efforts are contributing to sales force at sales companies in Thailand, Indonesia, Vietnam, reductions in standard lead the Philippines, and Singapore, we will expand sales proposals times and enhanced cost Awareness of Market Needs that are custom-tailored to the needs of customers. Switchboards UPS Indirect external air-conditioning units Customer factories and competitiveness. facilities We are seeing continuing renewal investments in the manufacExpand the transmission and distribution busituring industry in Japan due to aged equipment such as subness by introducing new global products station equipment acquired in the 1970s and 1980s, while a We will introduce new, price-competitive transformers and shortage of equipment management engineers among customswitchgear products. In Southeast Asia we will expand our ers is stimulating requirements for equipment orders and effibusiness targeting the electricity and materials fields that comciency of management. Moreover, with a view to improving bines substation equipment with switchgear and controlgear. Monitoring and energy saving throughout factories and reducing CO2 emissions Meanwhile, in the Middle East, we will concentrate our efforts control system from the perspective of growing environmental awareness and on capturing demand for renewals and services among existing restricting energy costs, demand is increasing not only for the substation equipment customers by bolstering sales proposals *Gas-insulated switchgears introduction of products with a high level of power conversion for equipment malfunction prevention, and lifespan diagnosis efficiency, but also for the visualization and optimization of services via coordination with local service companies. Case Study 1 Realizing early facility construction and by comprehensively undertaking everything from energy throughout factories leveraging energy management Data Center of a energy saving through a wealth of expertise design of the entire facility up to its construction, systems (EMS). Expand the comprehensive electrical equipment Foreign Company and products combining power distribution equipment, UPSs, In the Southeast Asia and Middle East regions, which are business for factories and facilities (Japan) Amid progress in the shift to cloud-based inforemergency power generation equipment, and experiencing remarkable economic growth, demand for substaSince fiscal 2018 we have strengthened our systems and are mation systems and in anticipation of the expanother equipment to enable a stable power tion equipment and switchgear and controlgear for factories growing comprehensive electrical equipment orders for data sion of the information and communication supply. Furthermore, on the operational front, we and buildings to stabilize power supplies is increasing amid centers and semiconductor factories centered on Japan. Going technology (ICT) market, foreign data center supported energy saving by providing monitoring growing investment in industrial and social infrastructure and forward, we will continue to expand the comprehensive electribusinesses are increasingly establishing a presand control systems that facilitate the visualizademand for electricity. cal equipment business in Japan and Southeast Asia where we ence in Japan. Although foreign customers tion of energy, air-conditioning equipment that anticipate robust capital expenditure in those industries. The expect shortened construction periods, a shortutilizes outside air, and UPSs with industryStrengths of the Power Electronics key to strengthening competitiveness is short delivery times age of their own engineers at their Japanese leading levels of efficiency. We have gained Systems Energy Segment and low costs. In order to realize this, we will further promote bases and lack of progress in procuring materirecognition for our track record in Japan and we the standardization of our core products, namely switchgear als became an issue. are now seeing an increase in inquiries overseas, The strength of the Power Electronics Systems Energy segand controlgear. At the same time, we will begin local producFuji Electric shortened the construction period principally in Southeast Asia. ment lies in its wide range of products and systems, from tion in order to improve our lineup of products that conform to instruments that prepare electricity such as transformers and overseas standards. switchboards to instruments that protect equipment from lightning and instantaneous voltage drops, such as uninterruptible Expand sales of ED&C components business tarCase Study 2 Realizing energy saving and reliable operacompanies, high voltage motors, inverters power systems and EMS. Moreover, in addition to the expertise geting the power distribution market Oil Tank Factory tions through factory diagnosis and mainteinside switchgears and controlgears, and circuit on energy saving at Fuji Electric’s factories, we possess an We will expand sales on the back of Tokyo 2020 Olympic and (Japan) nance services breakers while clarifying recommendations on extensive delivery track record and engineering experience. At Paralympic Games-related investment by strengthening nomiA lack of engineers to implement energy saving the timing of the renewal of such equipment. the same time, we are experts in the operation of various factonation activities in the power distribution market for buildings throughout the factory was an issue for the We were awarded a contract that entails everyries and facilities, and are able to provide maintenance services and general contractors. customer when renewing their production thing from replacing existing products with Fuji that suit user conditions, including the products and systems facilities. We implemented a facility diagnosis Electric ones to 24 hours a day, 365 days a that underpin power stabilization and optimization in line with by checking the deterioration of all electrical year maintenance services, and have thereby customer specifications. In these ways, the ability to offer comequipment, such as substation equipment, contributed to higher than ever energy-saving prehensive proposal bundles, from a diverse array of products including equipment manufactured by other effects and operational reliability. and systems up to and including maintenance services, is this segment’s strength. 15 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 16 Close-Up Expand the systems business through Facilitating productivity and quality enhancements through data collection and Power Electronics promotion of an overseas partnership strategy analysis of production equipment Structure of OnePackEdge Executive Officer Utilization of IoT in order to improve operations and Systems Industry Corporate General Manager, Power Electronics Systems Industry Business Group enhance productivity on production floors has been OnePackEdge Data contained in the product Analysis Automatic software (MSPC) conversion Hiroshi Tetsutani increasing in recent years. Data collection Data collection Data collection “OnePackEdge,” comprising data collection sections and section section section analysis software, supports analysis of the factors of equipProcessing Assembly Inspection ment abnormalities and defects by collecting together data Sensors CNC Sensors PLC Sensors PLC Net Sales Operating Income systems, monitoring control systems, and other systems have including information on temperature, vibration and operation, (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) an extensive delivery track record, enabling us to have a deep and quality from production floor sensors and controllers. Temperature Vibration Operational information Data A Data B Data A Data B understanding of the production processes of customer plants. We contribute to the early resolution of issues facing Pressure … Current Quality … information 322.5 332.0 Operating By combining these differentiated products with production customers by providing data collection and analysis in Data A Data B Change 6.6% Margin +9.5 6.0% floor expertise we are able to establish ideal plants and systems one package. Review of Operations 21.9 Change that address the issues of customers. Data collection section 19.4 +2.5 “OnePackEdge Controller” Priority Measures for Fiscal 2019 Case Study Significantly shortening data collection and on assembly equipment, breakdown history, and We will expand the systems business in China and elsewhere in Automotive factor identification time other issues at the customer’s engine factory Asia through M&A activities and a partnership strategy with Manufacturer As data management was conducted departmenwas drastically reduced. Furthermore, Fuji 2018 2019 (FY) 2018 2019 (FY) cooperative companies while setting the business targeting Results Management Results Management (Japan) tally on the customer’s production floors, data Electric’s proprietary software makes it possible Plan Plan ships to a growth trajectory. collection factor identification took a considerable to predict and prevent abnormality occurrences. (Target) (Target) amount of time when problems occurred. Therefore, we are contributing to the customer’s Expansion of the systems business By adopting “OnePackEdge,” the amount of operational efficiency improvement and quality In China, we will expand a system that facilitates production time required to collect and aggregate data on enhancement. optimization and energy saving by leveraging Dalian Fuji the motor rotation speed and current of proAwareness of Market Needs Bingshan’s air-conditioning heating and cooling technologies cessing equipment, screw-tightening pressure and equipment and its sales channels while combining invertIn the industrial field in Japan, a shortage of labor is stimulating ers, measuring instruments, control equipment, and energy  an increase in demand for automation and reducing labor management systems to target beverage plants. Moreover, requirements. In addition, initiatives are being stepped up toward we will expand sales of drive control systems and monitoring Contributing to the resolution of the environmental problems of ships heightening competitiveness through production reforms such as control systems for the materials field by utilizing Shanghai The International Maritime Organization will strengthen System structure (Fuji Electric provides blue areas) the visualization of equipment operating conditions as well as the Electric’s sales channels. In Southeast Asia, we will leverage regulations on sulfur oxide (SOx), a pollutant, in oceans prediction of equipment defects and analysis of the reasons for the engineering and sales channels of Fuji CAC of Vietnam to such defects. Moreover, renewal and energy-saving investments promote sales of control systems for cement plants, while in throughout the world from 2020. The running costs of are continuing due to aged production equipment in the India, we will increase sales of control systems for steel plants expensive low-sulfur fuels that conform to these regulations materials field. centered on Fuji Gemco. has become an issue. Laser-type gas analyzers In China, we anticipate investment in energy saving driven In Japan, we will continue to focus our efforts on capturing Fuji Electric offers ship exhaust gas cleaning systems by environmental measures, and investment in automation and renewal demand for aged equipment in the materials field while that enable the continued use of current fuel. We provide SOx scrubbers Exhaust gas monitor labor saving on the back of a shortage of labor. Meanwhile, we promoting sales of semiconductor production equipment SOx scrubbers that reduce sulfur oxide in exhaust gas by システム構成（青字 anticipate new and renewal investment in the materials field in through the introduction of new servo system products. In addimixing sea water with exhaust gas to create a chemical Southeast Asia and India. tion, we will expand the systems business by providing data reaction, and a combination of gas analyzers that measure Exterior of scrubbers レーザ式 ガス分析計 In the transportation field, such as ships and railroads, collection equipment and analysis and support services utilizing the constituent concentration of SOx scrubbers and SO X スクラバー making equipment lighter and more compact while reducing IoT for process assembly such as for automotives. Heat exchanger exhaust gas in real time as well as inverters and controllers environmental impacts is becoming a global issue. Tank Seawater Expanding ship exhaust gas cleaning systems for managing a feed pump that draws seawater in an optiControl is sprayed from 熱交換器 panel operations mal manner. branch Exhaust gas タ Strengths of the Power Electronics In these ways, Fuji Electric’s ship exhaust gas cleaning Wastewater treatment pipe rotates and Fuji Electric will expand its ship exhaust gas cleaning systems rises Systems Industry Segment operations, business negotiations for which are increasing due systems are helping customers to adhere to air pollution equipment Water quality 排 水 ポンプ Pump measurement The Power Electronics Systems Industry segment provides a to environmental regulations. We will bolster production caparegulations. tool Engine wide range of products—combining drive equipment, measurbilities and reinforce engineering systems while promoting productivity increases and cost reduction through the introduction Internal structure of scrubbers ing instruments, control equipment, and the Internet of Things (IoT) that facilitate the automation of production equipment and of automation equipment. Additionally, we will respond to cuslabor saving—to a broad spectrum of customers, from those in tomer needs by developing large-sized products, with a goal of Case Study Limiting required loading space through the on SOx, and realized the world’s smallest scrubthe materials field to the assembly field. In particular, the seglaunching them in fiscal 2019. Shipbuilder world’s smallest scrubbers bers, at 50% of the volume of those of other ment’s greatest strength is its ability to be the first to introduce (Japan) The customer was planning to equip mediumcompanies, thereby contributing to a reduction to the market competitive power electronics products equipped sized new ships with SOx scrubbers in order to of the loading space required for scrubbers on with our own power semiconductors, the key devices for faciliconform to regulations but securing cargo space customer ships. We are creating new business tating energy saving. The extensive lineup of our core product had become an issue. as a result of our compact-sized scrubbers, of inverters that are suitable for all industries and a variety of Fuji Electric’s scrubbers are the world’s first which are suitable for both new and existing applications is the segment’s forte while motion systems comscrubbers for ships to adopt cyclone technology ships and make placement easy to consider, bining servo systems and controllers that boast industry-leadin their internal structure. By securing the retenand providing optimal systems. ing levels of control performance have a considerable delivery tion time of exhaust gas inside scrubbers, we track record in machine tools, packaging machinery, and other have heightened the cleaning effect of scrubbers areas. As for steel and cement plants, our drive control 17 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 18 Close-Up Increase automotive sales by expanding our RC-IGBTs that realize miniaturization and Configuration of an Temperature distribution power semiconductor production capacity RC-IGBT during chip operation high levels of reliability Electronic Devices Managing Executive Officer Corporate General Manager, One of Fuji Electric’s strengths is its RC-IGBT. RC-IGBTs Electronic Devices Business Group were adopted by the automotive industry and are currently Toru Housen being deployed horizontally in industrial fields. IGBT FWD IGBT FWD By using an RC-IGBT that arranges two types of semiconductor with differing functions—an IGBT and a freeFWD IGBT wheeling diode (FWD)—alternately in a straight line on a single chip, it is possible to realize significant miniaturization Business Areas Priority Measures for Fiscal 2019 when compared with arranging an IGBT and an FWD in two RC-IGBT RC-IGBT separate chips. A high level of reliability is realized as a ■ Semiconductors Launching mass production of new products for result of dispersal of the heat generated during operation. 25% reduction of chip area* 33% reduction of increases in chip heat* (Industrial and automotive fields) automotive applications * Figures derived by comparing IGBT and FWD with RC-IGBT under certain Review of Operations We are moving ahead with the development and mass producassumed conditions ■ Magnetic disks  tion of Reverse-Conducting IGBT (RC-IGBT) chips and 4thgeneration direct liquid cooling modules and we will provide these products to customers throughout the world. We will Contribute to reducing the environmental impact of EVs and bolster specification incorporation activities that conduct proenhance driving distance Net Sales Operating Income posals at the customers’ product design stage and provide (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) new products that meet customer needs. Through these efforts In order to improve environmental impact reductions and A direct liquid cooling module is equipped with an we will aim for further customer acquisition. By continuing to driving distances for EVs and hybrid electric vehicles, for RC-IGBT and uses a direct cooling structure that has higher provide full support after specification incorporation, we will which we anticipate an increase in demand, there is a need heat dissipation performance than prior products, realizing Operating 11.4% 11.6% Margin heighten the value of Fuji Electric products. for smaller, lighter, and highly reliable mounted components. smaller size, lighter weight, and a high level of reliability. 150.3 Change 137.3 17.5 In order to meet that need, Fuji Electric provides direct +12.9 15.6 Change Boost sales of 7th-generation IGBT for +1.9 liquid cooling modules for inverters for motor control appliindustrial applications cations, which are essential to electrified vehicles (xEVs). We will aim to boost sales by bolstering product lines that combine 7th-generation IGBT chips that reduce losses by approxiElectric Vehicle (EV) 2018 2019 (FY) 2018 2019 (FY) mately 30% more than before and 7th-generation IGBT modules, No. of xEV Units & Rate of Electrification Direct liquid Results Management Results Management which boast high levels of heat dissipation and reliability. We will from cooling module 小型・高電力 plan plan (Millions of units) t h rate (%) 密度化を実現 achieve differentiation by creating a lineup of high-capacity prodow 1% l gr (Target) (Target) ucts not provided by other companies that can be easily applied 40 nua 2023: 4 33 40 e a n Electric g a 018 t o vehicle to equipment. 30 e r 27 30 Av 2 Awareness of Market Needs Targeting air conditioners, where there are calls for further 21 energy saving, we will respond to customer needs by expanding Inverter 20 16 34 20 Demand in the industrial and social infrastructure fields is our lineup of products for large, rather than compact models. 10 27 10 7 21 10 increasing for power semiconductors that fulfill the role of 4 5 15 energy saving with high levels of conversion efficiency and Accelerate improvements to manufacturing 3 4 6 9 power control. This demand is driven by increasing energy capabilities 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 (FY) 0 Motor demands and environmental regulations such as global warmIn order to grow sales, we are implementing appropriate equipBattery No. of xEV units (left) Rate of electrification (right) ing countermeasures. ment investments in a timely manner. In chip manufacturing Source : IHS2018 In the industrial field, the adoption of renewable energies (front-end processes), we are increasing 8-inch chip production such as wind power and solar power is proceeding centered equipment centered on our Yamanashi Factory, while for  on China and Europe, while demand for inverter air-conditioning module assembly (back-end processes), we are augmenting units is growing in China. Over the medium and long term, we capacities for production bases in Japan and overseas that are Realizing higher levels of efficiency and more compact size of power conditioning accelerating local production and consumption. forecast that investments in production floor automation with systems for wind and solar power generation the aim of solving labor shortages and enhancing productivity will result in growing demand for machine tools and robots. The introduction of renewable energies such as wind and centers throughout the world, targeting PCS manufacturers. The driver of growth going forward will be the automotive solar power is proceeding in order to realize a low-carbon Going forward, we will aim to increase sales by expanding field. We anticipate demand throughout the world for power society. Power conditioning systems (PCSs), an apparatus our lineup of high-capacity products not provided by other semiconductors for motor control inverters which are necessary for stabilizing power, are needed for wind and solar power companies. for electric vehicles (EVs). generation, while power semiconductors, which convert *Power density per unit power efficiently, are indispensable. Strengths of the Electronic Devices The 7th-generation IGBT products offered by Fuji Electric Segment are thinner than previous models. The combination of a chip PCS (photograph on left) and 7thgeneration IGBT module (Prime that reduces power loss through the application of Fuji PACK™ 3) for renewable energy The strengths of the Electronic Devices segment are in techElectric’s micro-machining technology and a module with applications nologies that enable the commercialization of IGBT modules Prime PACK™ 3 is a registered tradeenhanced heat dissipation properties by applying newly develthat contribute to increasing the efficiency, miniaturization, and mark of Infineon Technologies AG. oped materials, realizes highly efficient energy conversion and reliability of power electronics by combining cutting-edge IGBT chip technologies with package technologies possessing high enhances levels of output electric power density*. As a result, heat dissipation and high levels of reliability. We are promptly more efficient and compact PCSs can be realized. meeting market needs and providing ideal products for a variety In order to expand use of 7th-generation IGBTs, we will of applications through collaboration with our power electronics reinforce specification incorporation activities at our design systems business. 19 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 20 Close-Up Expand vending machine business in China and Southeast Asia and bolster lineup of Supporting efficient vending machine operations for customers with AI Food and Beverage labor and energy saving solutions for stores Many vending machine business operators in China lack Vending machine Operation / know-how. Delivery Management Distribution Executive Officer Corporate General Manager, Issues faced in this market include losses of sales Food and Beverage Distribution Business Group opportunities due to depleted stock as well as slow progress Yasuhiro Takahashi in streamlining delivery routes. Improving investment returns through efficient operations will be key to promoting the spread of vending machines going forward. a sales and service company in 2018. Our development and Capitalizing on the technologies and know-how Fuji Business Areas production systems in China were reinforced in 2016 with the Electric boasts as a leading manufacturer in the domestic Remote configuration Restocking （Lighting, temperature, order construction of the second Dalian factory, which was equipped market, we are moving ahead with the development of a prices, etc.） ■ Vending machines ■ Store distribution with state-of-the-art automation equipment. system that uses artificial intelligence (AI) to support vendBeverage vending Store fixtures and In Southeast Asia, a vending machine operator company ing machine operations. Areas in which this system is appliReview of Operations machines, vending equipment, automatic was created in Thailand in 2016 and a vending machine producInventory cable include the formulation of the necessary sales and information, sales machines for food and change dispensers tion and sales company in Indonesia was acquired from Kubota delivery plans and the demand projections for items sold in information, etc. other goods Corporation in 2017. These two bases are playing a central role vending machines. in our efforts to explore these markets. By packaging AI-powered operation systems with vending machines, Fuji Electric seeks to drive the expanNet Sales Operating Income Vending Machine (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) sion of vending machine markets by creating frameworks Operation System Priority Measures for Fiscal 2019 for maximizing customer earnings. AI-powered proposal of optimal sales and delivery plans Operating 5.1% 5.8% Margin based on vending machine information 113.6 113.6 Change Based on an accurate understanding of customer needs, the 0.0 5.8 6.6 Change Food and Beverage Distribution segment is expanding its +0.8  vending machine business in China and Southeast Asia and bolstering its lineup of labor and energy saving solutions for Contributing to labor and energy savings at stores 2018 2019 (FY) 2018 2019 (FY) stores. Realizing store labor savings with vending machine Results Management Results Management automation technologies Plan Plan Expand vending machine business in China (Target) (Target) In the store distribution business, there is a rising need for and Southeast Asia the automation technologies that Fuji Electric has fostered The items sold in vending machines vary greatly between counthrough the development of vending machines. We are thus Awareness of Market Needs try and region. Fuji Electric is enhancing its vending machine seeing a rise in the introduction of self-service cash regislineup based on the local needs seen in the markets it serves. ters using Fuji Electric’s automatic change dispensers as In Japan, customers such as beverage manufacturers, conveFor example, operational know-how such as combining the Automatic change dispenser Vending machine convenience store nience stores, and supermarkets are promoting low-labor, well as vending machine convenience stores. favored temperatures and displays of offerings (beverages, energy-efficient operations in response to social issues such as Fuji Electric is also proposing a new store model for foods or other goods), e-money compatible machines, and the global warming and labor shortages stemming from the shrinkstores that have difficulty securing nighttime staff. In this development of machines with internal structures compatible ing workforce. model, we create dual stores / 2Way vending machines with various container shapes. Overseas, growing automation needs, such as those arising that reduce labor requirements and improve consumer Furthermore, the Company is engaged in the development from the attention surrounding low-labor convenience stores convenience by functioning as showcases during the day employing cutting-edge technologies, are expected to stimulate of operation systems that support efficient vending machine and vending machines at night. increased demand for vending machines in Fuji Electric’s focus operations for customers lacking such know-how in China and Daytime (showcases = Nighttime（vending machines ＝ market of China. As for Southeast Asia, where markets are still Southeast Asia in order to encourage local beverage manufacmanned stores) unmanned stores） taking shape, market participation by major beverage manufacturers to enter into the vending machine market. turers is contributing to higher vending machine needs centered Reducing air-conditioning energy consumption and Dual stores / 2Way vending machines on Thailand. Bolster lineup of labor and energy saving influx of dust and particle matter through store air pressolutions sure control Standard store → Outside dust System-equipped store → Strengths of the Food and Beverage In the Food and Beverage Distribution segment, we are develFuji Electric has developed and launched a new system for and particle matter flow into store No influx oping store management systems that respond to customers’ Distribution Segment labor and energy saving needs with functions for managing controlling the air pressure inside of stores. This system uses sensors to control the balance of air The strengths of the Food and Beverage Distribution segment product inventories, achieving traceability, and optimizing intake and exhaust by ventilation fans and other equipment include its industry-leading share for vending machines as well store environments. to prevent influxes of outside air when automatic doors are as the technological prowess that it has cultivated through the We are also bolstering our lineup of other products that Influx of help alleviate labor shortages. These products include dual opened or closed. Furthermore, the system realizes a 10% outside Prevention development of freezers and refrigerated showcases for stores. air of influx stores / 2Way vending machines that enable convenience reduction in energy consumption by lowering the burden These strengths are centered on the segment’s automation, heating and cooling, and currency identification technologies, stores to be converted into vending machine depots during placed on air conditioners while also cutting particle matter which will be indispensable strengths in the growing labor the nighttime hours as well as automatic change dispensers influx by 30%, thereby decreasing the amount of cleaning saving and energy saving markets. that simplify the cash handling processes needing to be perwork needing to be done by employees. • 10% reduction in energy consumption Fuji Electric began developing its vending machine business formed by store staff. This system has won great praise from customers for its • 30% reduction in particle matter influx in overseas markets a step ahead of the rest of the competiability to contribute to labor and energy savings in stores. Note: Figures based on a verification test tors. In China, our first Dalian factory commenced operations in 2003 as a joint venture with a local partner, and we established 21 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 22 Close-Up Fully leverage cultivated power plant strengths to Contributing to expanded use of renewable energy through binary geothermal power shift to renewable energy and after-sales businesses Since delivering the first geothermal power generation facility to Power Generation Executive Officer Corporate General Manager, be put to practical application in Japan in 1960, Fuji Electric has Flash-cycle Power Generation Business Group proceeded to supply 82 geothermal power turbines around the Tadao Horie world with a combined generation capacity of 3.2 GW. Principal examples of Fuji Electric-supplied facilities include one of the world’s largest flash-cycle*1 turbines as well as one of Japan’s largest binary*2 turbines. Demand for binary generation technologies is rising above the numerous solar power EPC projects as the number of such demand for flash-cycle technologies as binary technologies allow for Business Areas projects grew rapidly following the introduction of feed-in tariff power generation to be performed using hot water or low-temperaschemes. In nuclear power-related equipment, we have develture steam, thus bringing the potential to expand the scope of geo■ Renewable and new ■ Thermal power oped a track record with regard to fuel transport and radioacNga Awa Purua Geothermal Power Station thermal power generation businesses. (140 MW generation capacity, New Zealand) energy tive waste material treatment facilities. ■ Nuclear power-related Fuji Electric is advancing the development of equipment that Review of Operations Geothermal power, The plant engineering experience and the insight and realizes high-efficiency generation using smaller heat sources. We equipment Binary generation hydro power, solar power, expertise gained through this experience are valuable assets of also package geothermal systems as decentralized power sources in wind power, fuel cells the Power Generation segment. bundles tailored to provide the ideal response to customer needs in 2018 実績 order to reduce the amount of expenses and time required for installation. In addition, we develop portable systems to enable equipment Net Sales Operating Income to be more easily reused in case a heat source is depleted. (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Priority Measures for Fiscal 2019 In this manner, we are committed to contributing to the spread Operating The Power Generation segment has begun overhauling its of renewable energy by providing these solutions for heightening 107.0 116.0 4.4% 3.7% Margin previous business structure, which was centered on thermal the profitability of customers’ power generation operations. power generation. By fully leveraging its cultivated power plant *1 A  generation method in which geothermal steam directly turns turbines Change Change 4.8 4.3 *2 A  generation method in which low-temperature steam or hot water is used to heat +9.0 –0.5 strengths, Fuji Electric is shifting its business portfolio toward and evaporate organic mediums with low boiling points so that the resulting steam Takigami Binary Geothermal Power Station of Idemitsu Oita Geothermal Co., Ltd. renewable energy and after-sales businesses. can turn turbines (5.05 MW generation capacity, Oita Prefecture, Japan) 2018 2019 (FY) 2018 2019 (FY) Results Management Results Management Expand renewable energy orders Plan Plan Fuji Electric aims to expand renewable energy orders through  (Target) (Target) the provision of high-value-added solutions. In the wind and solar power fields, we will contribute to stable electricity qualUpgrading hydro power generation facilities to contribute to higher efficiency and Awareness of Market Needs ity and energy supplies by making excellent use of the various reliability and lower costs technologies related to control and electricity storage. Since the adoption of the Paris Agreement, an international Meanwhile, in the geothermal power field, we are bolstering Fuji Electric has been involved in the hydro power field longer than framework for combating climate change, there has been a our lineup of binary geothermal power offerings that make use any other area of power generation. Over our many years of involvestrong global push to realize a low-carbon society. This push of the heat emitted from existing facilities as we seek to help ment in this field, we have delivered 431 hydro power generation has stimulated structural reforms in thermal power businesses quickly bring geothermal power plants on stream. facilities to power companies and private generation business operain Japan and overseas. tors in Japan with a combined generation capacity of 4.8 GW. Against this backdrop, it can be expected that use of Hydro power has continued to support the economic growth of Expand after-sales businesses renewable energy that does not emit greenhouse gases will Japan as a reliable, low-cost base load power supply. As existing hydro In its after-sales businesses, Fuji Electric is shifting its focus spread. At the same time, demand is growing on a global power facilities age, demand is growing for scrap and build*1 projects. from inspections and repairs to proposal-based services. In scale for the improvement of generation efficiency through For example, we installed a turbine designed using state-ofthe thermal and geothermal power field, we boast extensive replacements of and upgrades to aging generation facilities. the-art 3D flow analysis technologies at the Akiha No. 1 Power insight and experience as a power generation equipment Akiha No. 1 Power Station of Electric Power Development Co., Ltd. Furthermore, decommissioning has been decided or is Station and were thereby able to boost this facility’s generation (47.2 MW, Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan) manufacturer that is knowledgeable in everything from strucbeing considered with regard to several nuclear power plants capacity from 45.3 MW to 47.2 MW. tures to materials. Leveraging this foundation as well as the in Japan. This situation is expected to drive the growth of the One strength of Fuji Electric in this field is its turbine output technologies of the specialized after-sales service company decommissioning system market going forward. adjustment technologies. Previously, it has been common for acquired in the United States in fiscal 2015, we aim to expand output adjustment to be performed using hydraulic servos for orders for onsite and quick delivery after-sales services to turbines with medium to large output capacities and electric Strengths of the Power Generation improve power generation efficiency and to extend equipment servos for small-capacity turbines. However, Fuji Electric is leadSegment lifespans. As for hydro power, our efforts will be focused on ing the industry as it was among the earliest to realize the practiresponding to the robust replacement demand by contributing The Power Generation Segment boasts a diverse lineup of cal application of hybrid servo systems that maintain the cost to customers’ businesses and to reductions in environmental products encompassing thermal power, geothermal power, benefits of electric servos while being applicable to a wider range impacts through such means as improving efficiency and hydro power, solar power, and wind power generation equipof turbines. mitigating oil leak risks. ment; nuclear power-related equipment; and fuel cells. We also The upgrade at the Akiha No. 1 Power Station enabled us to have an extensive track record of delivering such power genReinforce and expand decommissioning system refine this system while employing a proprietary design*2 that utieration facilities to a wide range of power generation business operations lizes backup facilities under normal operating conditions in addition operators through engineering, procurement, and construction Centered on fuel transport and radioactive waste material treatto during main equipment failures. This design realizes the same (EPC) and other arrangements. ment facilities, areas where it has a developed track record, Fuji level of performance as a conventional system with less than half Fuji Electric has more than half a century of experience in Electric is taking steps to reinforce and expand its domestic the equipment. the thermal and hydro power fields, and we have maintained decommissioning system operations. Looking specifically at The reduction in the number of parts not only increased the the top global share of deliveries of geothermal power generaradioactive waste material treatment facilities, we are enhancing reliability and ease of maintenance of the system, but also contribHybrid servo system tion equipment since 2000. In addition, we have participated in our proposal capabilities with the aim of spreading application uted to significantly lower initial and running costs. *1 P rojects in which aged, inefficient facilities are decommissioned and replaced with of the SIAL® cutting-edge solidification technology, which has new facilities to improve efficiency a track record overseas. *2 J oint patent held with Electric Power Development Co., Ltd. 23 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 24 Initiatives for Accomplishing the SDGs Material Management Initiatives Relationship Between Fuji Electric’s Activities and the SDGs Material Issues to Reinforcing Operating Foundations The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are Fuji Electric has identified key issues pertaining to the implementation of its Code of Conduct. We are proactively addressing these a set of goals geared toward achieving economic growth while issues to improve long-term corporate value (the Fuji Electric Code of Conduct is available in its entirety on the following page). simultaneously addressing social and environmental issues. Fuji Electric’s corporate philosophy and management policies Code of Conduct Area Key Issues Major Initiatives Relevant SDGs Relevant Pages and its energy and environment businesses are congruent with the SDGs and other contemporary expectations. Human rights ■ Implement human rights due diligence We are committed to contributing to the realization of a sustainable society through the exercise of our corporate ■ Improve occupational health and safety awareness philosophy, and the Fuji Electric Code of Conduct has been Safe and healthy among employees established based on this commitment to serve as a concrete workplaces ■ Bolster initiatives for ensuring occupational health and safety and protecting employee health guide for the actions of employees. In June 2019, the Code of Conduct was revised to further enhance initiatives aimed at ■  xpand areas in which female employees make E the accomplishment of Fuji Electric’s ideals. contributions People Resolution of Social and Creation of Customer Value Respect and (Employees) This revision was meant to present our policies for respondEnvironmental Issues Diversity ■ Utilize employees over 60 value all people ■ Broaden scope of duties performed by differently P29–P30 ing to the SDGs and other targets and standards shared by the abled employees global community in a clear form to both internal and external Energy and Environment Businesses stakeholders. By acting in accordance with the revised Code of ■ P  romote flexible workstyles Conduct, we will pursue higher corporate value as a sustainably Clean energy Stable supply of energy Work-life balance ■ Offer work-life balance support and foster condugrowing company. cive workplace environments Automation Energy saving Priority SDGs Human resources ■  nhance development of future management E Initiatives for development candidates In fiscal 2018, Fuji Electric identified the goals among the SDGs Fuji Electric Code of Conduct that it will prioritize addressing in its business activities. Assessing the link between the value created by the four busiManagement Policies Respect and Improvement of ■ Improve  product and service quality Customers value our Accomplishing the SDGs customer P31 nesses advanced by our five segments and contributions to the satisfaction ■ Enhance customer support and service systems Corporate Philosophy customers accomplishment of the SDGs, we selected five priority goals. Furthermore, additional goals were designated as priorities by Seek harmony verifying the relationship between the SDGs and the reinforceContribute to Encourage with the Respect and Value chains for ■  ractice fair and impartial procurement P Business prosperity creativity environment value our supporting sus■ Fulfill social responsibilities together with business Partners ment of our operating foundation, making for a total of nine business partners tainable societies partners P31–P32 SDGs to be pursued through overall corporate activities. Material Management SDGs to be Addressed through Fuji Electric’s Respect and Constructive ■ C  onduct timely, fair, and impartial information Shareholders / Contributions to Accomplishment of Five Priority SDGs Companywide Activities value our shareholder and disclosure Investors shareholders and investor ■ Enhance shareholder and investor engagement P32 engagement Initiatives ■ S  pread of renewable energy use investors activities ■ Improvement of energy efficiency Priority SDGs to be Addressed through Energy and Environment Businesses ■  eduction of CO2 emissions from industrial processes R Realization of a ■ Reduce society’s CO2 emissions through provision ■ Reinforcement of social and industrial infrastructure low-carbon of energy-saving products Respect and society ■ Reduce CO2 emissions during production Environment ■ P  rovision of energy and other basic services for cities and residential areas value the global P33-P36 ■ Development of sustainable transport systems environment Creation of a ■ P  romote 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle) in relation to ■  fficient use of natural resources E recycling-oriented ■ Rigorous management and reduction of emissions of chemical society products and production activities substances and waste ■  ontributions to climate change countermeasures through the supply C ■  ontribute to communities through activities for C of products that help reduce CO2 emissions Respect and protecting the natural environment and promoting Social Outreach Community (Local value interaction outreach youth development Communities) Policies for Future Initiatives in Contribution to the with society ■ Engage in community outreach at major sites of P46 overseas operations Achievement of the SDGs Fuji Electric will continue in-house education activities designed ■ E  stablish and revise internal rules and conduct Effective complioversight, monitoring, and education based on the to communicate its policies for contributing to the accomplishCompliance ance program Fuji Electric Compliance Program P42–P43 ment of the SDGs. At the same time, the Environmental Vision Make global implementation ■ Cultivate mindset of strict compliance among 2050 will be used to guide environmental initiatives in our compliance a top employees business activities and the disclosure of related information. priority The Company has also begun examining methods of Risk ■ R  einforce business continuity capacities Risk Management assessing the social and economic contributions made to the Management ■ Strengthen information security P44–P45 accomplishment of the SDGs through its business activities from various perspectives, such as quality of life. These assessTop management Improvement of Corporate ment methods are scheduled to be instituted in fiscal 2020. will thoroughly management ■ Reinforce corporate governance framework Governance practice this transparency and P37–P41 Code of Conduct oversight function 25 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 26 Fuji Electric Code of Conduct The Fuji Electric Code of Conduct is a guideline for the behavior of all employees and simultaneously a declaration of our commitment to resolving social and environmental issues across the supply chain and contributing to the accomplishment of the SDGs through our corporate activities. Forward 2. Respect and value our customers 5. Respect and value the global environment ■  cting in accordance with laws, regulations and ethical A Fuji Electric and our employees, in our corporate philosoFuji Electric and its employees will strive to improve customer Fuji Electric and its employees will, according to the Fuji standards phy, state that we “pledge as responsible corporate citisatisfaction by expanding business globally and providing Electric Basic Environmental Protection Policy, proactively and ■ Complying with contracts zens in a global society to strengthen our trust with safe, secure, and reliable products and services that make actively tackle global environmental issues in all corporate ■ Prevention of bribery and corruption communities, customers and partners, and fulfill our misfull use of energy and environmental technologies. activities and contribute to the realization of a low-carbon, ■ Compliance with competition laws sion in good faith,” and through all corporate activities we ■ W  e will promote technology development and manufacturrecycling-oriented society that is in harmony with nature. ■ Fair selection of business partners will “contribute to prosperity,” “encourage creativity,” and ing that meet the needs of our customers, and provide ■ W  ith the aim of achieving a low-carbon society, we will ■ Insulation from antisocial forces “seek harmony with the environment,” while also contribsafe, reliable, high-quality products and services with all strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our own uting to the achievement of the United Nations ■  istinction between public and private, and prohibition of D our strength. production activities and, by providing products and serSustainable Development Goals (SDGs). insider trading ■ W  e will respond to our customers in good faith and reflect vices to customers that help prevent global warming, we In order to practice our corporate philosophy to fulfill will contribute to the reduction of CO2 in society. ■  uild sound relationships with political bodies and governB their feedback in improvements to products and services. social responsibility and act with high ethical standards ment agencies ■  ith the aim of achieving a recycling-oriented society, we will W while understanding and complying with relevant laws, strive to reduce our environmental impact throughout our 7-2 Thorough risk management regulations, international rules, and the spirit of such regula3. Respect and value our business partners supply chain, and promote waste reduction during production Fuji Electric and its employees will implement thorough risk tions and rules, both domestically and abroad, Fuji Electric Fuji Electric and its employees, along with business partwith efficient use of water and the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, management for the sustainable growth of Fuji Electric. and its employees have defined this code as a foundation ners, will promote procurement activities aimed at estabrecycle). W  e will strictly manage our intellectual property, personal for decision-making and behavior. lishing fair and equitable transactions and a supply chain ■ ■ W  ith the aim of achieving a society in harmony with nature, information, customer and confidential information, and fully that supports a sustainable society. we will promote activities that contribute to conservation of respect the property and information of others. 1. Respect and value all people ■ T  hrough fair and equitable transactions, we will build better biodiversity through our corporate activities. ■ In addition to natural disasters, we will build and strengthen Fuji Electric and its employees will respect human rights in partnerships, deepen mutual understanding, and strive to maintain and improve cooperative relationships. our organizational crisis management system to protect their relationships within all corporate activities. In addition, 6. Respect and value interaction with society employee safety and business continuity from malicious we will promote the activities of diverse human resources, ■ W  e will seek suppliers globally that are highly competitive in Fuji Electric and its employees will, as good corporate threats such as cyber attacks and terrorism. and strive to create a workplace that takes health and terms of quality, price, turnaround, and service, and that safety into consideration, with each employee having consider sustainability in terms of the environment, society, citizens, actively participate in communities, communicate decent work. and governance. with local stakeholders, and contribute to their development 8. Top management will thoroughly practice this through collaboration. ■  e will conduct human rights due diligence to recognize, W Code of Conduct prevent, and deal with adverse human rights harm based on ■ W  e will strive to understand social circumstances in each To put this Code of Conduct into practice, Fuji Electric 4. Respect and value our shareholders Material Management international human rights standards such as the Universal country and region, and gain mutual trust with our stakeholdmanagement will build and promote a governance system and investors ers through communication. Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nations Guiding that ensures the soundness, efficiency, transparency, and Fuji Electric and its employees will deepen mutual underPrinciples on Business and Human Rights. ■ W  e will work with local communities, governments, NGOs, effectiveness of corporate management, and a compliance Initiatives standing and trust by promoting honest and active informa e will build human resources and handling systems that W and other stakeholders in communities in an effort to contribsystem that ensures thorough compliance with laws and ■ tion disclosure and constructive dialogue with shareholders enable employment and performance of diverse human ute to those communities by resolving social issues. social norms. This Code of Conduct will be shared with all and investors. resources, and strengthen human resource training to achieve employees and communicated to partners, etc., as well as ■  inancial information will be provided that is useful to shareF development for each employee and the full potential of teams. supply chains. holders and investors, and non-financial information such as 7. Make global compliance a top priority ■ W  e will put top priority on employee health and safety, and In the event of a violation of the law or any other situaenvironmental, societal and governance matters, in a timely 7-1 Thorough compliance strive to create an efficient and comfortable work environment. tion that violates this Code of Conduct, while working to and fair manner, and in accordance with relevant laws, reguFuji Electric and its employees will, as members of a highly resolve issues and fulfilling accountability to society, top lations, and the Company’s fair disclosure policy. public group that declares its contributions to solutions to management will strive to investigate causes, recover ■  onstructive dialogue with shareholders and investors will be C global problems such as the environment and energy, recdamages, prevent recurrence, and deal strict punishment. conducted through financial results briefings and small meetognize the importance of compliance, fully understand ings, and information obtained from such dialogue will be domestic and foreign laws, customs, and all other social shared as feedback with executives and relevant departments. norms and their spirit, comply with them, and always act with the highest ethical standards. 27 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 28 People (Employees) Female Employees and Managers Fuji Electric promotes the employment of differently abled From the perspective of guaranteeing the ongoing development of its business, Fuji Electric is seeking to secure talindividuals with a goal of enabling as many such individuals as 2023 ented human resources by promoting diversity, through means such as promoting inclusion of senior citizens and （FY） 2017 2018 2019 Target possible to continue working until retirement age. Accordingly, women in the workforce; fostering a comfortable workplace; enabling flexible workstyles; and bolstering our competiRatio of female employees among we aim to grow rates of employment of differently abled inditiveness in recruitment. The foundation for these activities is formed by the principles of respect for human rights, newly hired employees*1 14% 20% 21% 20% viduals while remaining above the legally mandated rate. Efforts occupational health and safety, and protection of employee health. In addition, our human resource strategies prioritize Ratio of female employees in to this end include the expansion of the scope of duties permanagement positions*2 1.9% 1.9% 2.3% 3.0% selection and development from a results-oriented perspective and the development of human resources for expandformed by differently abled individuals, support for ongoing Number of female employees in ing global operations in order to bolster our business constitution and competitiveness. supervisory positions*3 215 225 249 400 employment, and other measures for promoting the employment of differently abled individuals. Data collected from Fuji Electric, Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems, Fuji Office & Life Service, Fuji Electric IT Center, Fuji Electric Finance and Accounting Respect for Human Rights Support, Fuji Architects and Engineering, and Fuji Electric Frontier Companies hiring new female employees are Fuji Electric and Fuji Electric FA Ratio of Differently Abled Employees to Total Employees Components & Systems （FY） 2017 2018 2019 Enhancement of Human Rights Due Diligence Activities *1 N  umber of newly hired female employees refers to graduates from universities or technical colleges Number of differently abled employees 370 378 397 The Fuji Electric Code of Conduct states that we should “respect Based on international human rights standards, such as the *2 N  umber of female employees in management positions refers to employees of Employment rate 2.51% 2.57% 2.73% and value all people,” and we are promoting respect for human Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as on the UN manager rank or above *3 N  umber of female employees in supervisory positions refers to employees of Legally Mandated Ratio: 2.0% until 2017, 2.2% from 2018 rights accordingly. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the 2019 assistant manager class or above The Company respects the human rights of all of its revision of the Fuji Electric Code of Conduct clearly states our employees and practices human rights due diligence to ensure commitment to ensure that the Company is never involved in or that the rights of everyone connected to its business activities complicit in human rights violations. are respected. 最小サイズ ヨコ 12.8 ミリまで Occupational Health and Safety Acceleration of Occupational Health and In recognition of these efforts, Fuji Electric was included in Work-Life Balance Safety Initiatives the 2019 Certified Health & Productivity Management Fuji Electric believes that the “health and safety of workers takes Organization Recognition Program (White 500) in fiscal 2018, Workstyle Reforms and Work-Life Balance Support Paid Vacation Days Acquired Annually and precedence over everything else” and has positioned occuparecognizing it as a company exhibiting excellence in health Average Overtime Work Hours in Japan We are strengthening initiatives to help employees achieve tional health and safety as a top priority for the Company. In line and productivity management. work-life balance by creating workplace environments that are （FY） 2016 2017 2018 with this philosophy, we actively communicate the principles of Frequency Ratio of Occupational Accidents (in Japan) more conducive to the efforts of diverse employees and that Paid vacation days acquired annually 14.3 14.1 14.5 our Health and Safety Basic Policy both inside and outside of the enable people to fulfill their potential. Average overtime work hours 22.07 23.34 24.04 （FY） 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Company and are advancing occupational health and safety Fuji Electric is promoting flexible workstyles through the initiatives based on this policy. Fuji Electric 0.12 0.08 0.08 0.19 0.08 introduction of Location Flexible working systems that enable Location Flexible Working System Use Health and safety education programs based on hands-on Number of employees to work in satellite or home offices. At the same occupational 33 30 24 23 23 （FY） 2017 2018 Material Management curricula are planned and implemented on an ongoing basis time, we seek to reduce excessive work hours and encourage accidents Home office (registered throughout the duration of each year. These programs include employees to acquire consecutive days of paid leave in order to users / number of uses) 559 / 610 744 / 1,940 legally mandated health and safety education, training for new All industries 1.66 1.61 1.63 1.66 1.83 facilitate workstyles that achieve a better balance between Satellite office (registered 284 / 444 387 / 457 Initiatives employees, and education and training programs planned by Electrical work and private life. users / number of uses) equipment 0.41 0.54 0.51 0.45 0.58 operating sites or construction work sites. In addition, we promanufacturers Furthermore, the Company is bolstering its range of work-life vide training for supervisors and health and safety representabalance support systems and fostering conducive workplace Scope: Fuji Electric Co., Ltd.; Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems Co., Ltd. tives to educate the frontline leaders at associate companies. A environments to help employees raising children or caring for focus in recent years has been traffic seminars and mental family members strike a better balance between their work and health education aimed at eliminating accidents involving comtheir private life while still exercising their full talents at work. mercial vehicles. Human Resource Development Enhancement of Management Skills and Future Management Candidate Development Diversity Developing the skills of employees is a top priority for manageIndividuals will be registered as management candidates on a ment. We are focused on cultivating professionals that can consingle-year basis, and the registered candidates will be replaced Support for Contributions by Diverse Human Resources tribute to increased global competitiveness as we implement based on annual evaluations to promote ongoing development. One of Fuji Electric’s management policies states that we will Meanwhile, Fuji Electric is working to empower its female proactive employee training and education programs. Fuji Electric also implements a variety of other training pro“maximize our strengths as a team, respecting employees’ employees through the continued implementation of work-life Employee awareness surveys have indicated a need to grams on an ongoing basis. These programs include leveldiverse ambition.” Diversity has been identified as an important support systems and promotion of diverse workstyles. In addienhance mid-level line management (manager rank) capabilispecific training, which is conducted in conjunction with priority of human resource strategies accordingly. tion, we are enhancing the mentor system for female employties. We are addressing this need through systematic rotation promotions, special assignments, or other such timings to The aging population in Japan is expected to lead to a ees and seeking to expand the female population at Fuji Electric programs for enabling managers to gain more experience as foster management capabilities, human skills, and logical thinksignificant expansion in the number of employees aged over 60 by aggressively recruiting female university students from sciwell as through other initiatives to augment management skills. ing capacities. We also offer specialized-field training, for a decade from now, making the transmission of manufacturing ence and engineering backgrounds. Steps are also being taken The Company has also instituted measures for cultivating future enabling employees to improve their capabilities or acquire skills an important task. For this reason, we are examining the to increase the number of female employees in supervisory management candidates. Opportunities for enhancing the specialized knowledge or skills; manufacturing training, for possibility of introducing new employee treatment systems to positions by bolstering career development support for female development of the management candidates that will shape the learning techniques and technologies; and global employee promote the contributions of all employees over 60, not just employees and offering them a wider range of opportunities to future of Fuji Electric include careful selection of candidates training. In addition, employees are positioned strategically those with high-level technical skills. tackle new challenges. from among junior employees, effective on-the-job training based on their individual experience and skills. through position rotations, and participation in selective training. 29 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 30 Customers CSR Exercised Together with Business Partners Fuji Electric promotes technology development and manufacturing that meet the needs of our customers, and proFuji Electric believes that it is important to aim to be a company corrective measures. Revisions will be made to surveys and vides safe, reliable, high-quality products and services with all our strength. In addition, we respond to our customers with high social value by working with its business partners to feedback methods going forward in order to facilitate better in good faith and reflect their feedback in improvements to products and services. fulfill its corporate social responsibility (CSR). To this end, we understanding of the circumstances at business partners are promoting initiatives to prevent compliance violations and through future surveys. human rights infringements across the supply chain while Major Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Improvement of Customer Satisfaction addressing conflict minerals. Proactive green procurement initiatives are implemented from the perspective of environmen■  SR surveys (administered to top 500 business partners C Enhancement of Customer Support and Service Systems accounting for 80% of domestic transaction amounts) tal preservation. Fuji Electric’s Quality Assurance Policy stipulates that we are to Major Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 In addition, CSR surveys are administered as one facet of ■ P  rocurement policy briefings for business partners assure the industry’s highest standard for quality in all of our (at individual factories and operating sites) our CSR procurement efforts. In 2018, these surveys indicated  einforcement of support systems by expanding R  rocurement-related compliance training P products and services. We are therefore advancing quality ■ Power Electronics that there were no business partners in need of immediate ■ scope of models (gas analyzers) that can receive improvement initiatives through a Companywide organizational Systems maintenance at the Company’s Thailand base (held at 32 bases on rotational basis, 1,045 participants) structure. In addition, we formulate a High Reliability Activities ■  olstering of support system by broadening the B Electronic Devices range of models for which inquiries can be Policy each year, based on which we dedicate our efforts to addressed through call centers (Shenzhen, China) improving quality at every stage of our business, from product planning to sales and service. Food and Beverage Distribution ■ Improvement of service quality by developing cloud-based service platform (China) Shareholders / Investors Each business segment caters to different customers. ■ E  nhancement of upgrade services by bolstering Accordingly, service divisions have been established in all Power and New Energy sales and technical service systems at bases in segments. We are also developing global service systems to Vietnam and other parts of Asia Fuji Electric is committed to building upon trusting relationships with shareholders and other investors. To this end, we ensure that we are equipped to satisfy our customers. practice timely, fair, and equitable disclosure of information required by law and the regulations of the stock exchanges Furthermore, our power electronics systems business and on which the Company is listed as well as of other information deemed to be of value to shareholders and investors. In Food and Beverage Distribution segment have call centers addition, members of top management take part in activities for engaging with shareholders and other investors. that respond to customer inquiries 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. We also pursue higher levels of customer satisfaction through customer satisfaction activities in which we endeavor Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors to broaden our business scope beyond after-sales services to deliver solution services that utilize Fuji Electric products and Timely, Fair, and Equitable Information Disclosure  technologies to resolve customer issues. Fuji Electric discloses information that may have a material Furthermore, we actively disclose information deemed impact on the investment decisions of shareholders and other relevant to shareholders and other investors, such as answers investors in an effort to earn trust and foster proper underto questions frequently asked by such stakeholders, whether Business Partners standing with regard to the Company. In these disclosure activithis information is management related, financial information, ties, we release information as required by law and by the or non-financial information pertaining to social or environFuji Electric aspires to build strong relationships with its business partners through fair and equitable transactions, and disclosure regulations of the stock exchanges on which the mental matters. Material Management we are working together with our partners to promote procurement activities that contribute to the development Company lists its stock as well as in accordance with the Fair Such information is promptly disclosed through the supply chains capable of supporting a sustainable society. We are committed to fair and equitable procurement that is Disclosure Rule of the Financial Services Agency. Company’s corporate website. compliant with relevant laws and regulations in Japan and overseas, and our procurement activities are tailored for Initiatives sustainability from both social and environmental perspectives. Meaningful Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors  The Company emphasizes dialogue with shareholders and Supply Chains for Supporting a Sustainable Society other investors in its investor relations activities, and we are External Recognition dedicated to enhancing reciprocal communication in these Fuji Electric has been included in the following socially Fair and Equitable Procurement  activities. We also strive to make effective use of the input responsible investment indexes, indicating that it has been Fuji Electric strictly adheres to principles of fair and equitable We also operate a Partner Hotline System on Fuji Electric’s gained through these activities by relaying it to the Board of recognized as a socially responsible company. procurement in compliance with procurement-related laws. corporate website through which business partners can make Directors, management, and relevant divisions through reports The divisions responsible for procurement at the head reports regarding misconduct in the Company’s procurement to committees or paper reports as deemed necessary. office and other domestic operating sites take steps to ensure activities in order to prevent and quickly detect unlawful or legal compliance through regular audits of procurement activiunethical behavior. By earnestly addressing feedback from ties and compliance training. Meanwhile, procurement divibusiness partners, we seek to build trusting relationships. Major Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 sions at overseas affiliate companies are implementing Analysts and ■ F  inancial results briefings: 4 procurement-related rules and standards based on the regulainstitutional investors ■ Management plan briefing: 1 ■ Business strategy briefing: 1 tions of their respective countries. ■ Factory tours: 2 Private shareholders and ■  Factory tours for shareholders: investors 4 factories (Suzuka, Tokyo, Kobe, and Chiba) ■ Fuji Electric system solutions exhibits (498 participants in factory tours and system solutions exhibits) 31 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 32 Environment Realization of a Low-Carbon Society— Message from the Environmental Officer Reduction of Society’s CO2 Emissions through Products Establishment of Environmental Vision 2050 Reductions in CO2 Emissions through Products in Fiscal 2018 Reductions in CO2 Emissions through Products (1,000 t-CO2) 50,000 Preventing climate change, effectively utilizing natural resources, preserving biodiversity, and addressing other environmental issues are garnering rising attention. At the same time, the global 30,160,000 tons 30,160 community is increasingly taking action toward realizing a sustainable environment. This push to 25,790 global action can be seen in the adoption of the SDGs by the United Nations in 2015 and in the By encouraging customers to use our clean energy facilities implementation of a climate change response framework in the form of the Paris Agreement in 2016. and energy-saving products, we are able to reduce CO2 emisRecognizing this social push, Fuji Electric established its Environmental Vision 2050 to guide sions from the use of our products. Fuji Electric calculates the action for contributing to environmental preservation based on even loftier targets. contributions to CO2 emissions reductions made over a full 2017 2018 2030 (FY) Executive Officer The vision sets the goal of our environmental initiatives to be realizing a low-carbon society, a year of operation by all of the products it has shipped since (Target) Corporate General Manager, Production & Procurement Group recycling-oriented society, and a society in harmony with nature. Fuji Electric is approaching this goal fiscal 2009 (excluding those that have reached the end of their Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. through a supply chain-wide effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, promote the 3Rs (reduce, average life spans). In fiscal 2018, the contribution to CO2 emissions reductions Net Sales and Reductions in CO2 Emissions through Masashi Kawano reuse, recycle), and minimize impacts on ecosystems. We are thus working to accomplish this goal from products was 30,160,000 tons. This contribution was Products by Segment in Fiscal 2018 through the efforts of employees as well as those of our associates. 30,160 Fuji Electric is dedicated to contributing to the realization of sustainable societies with innovative largely a result of sales of clean energy facilities in the power ¥914.9 billion thousand tons technologies and products going forward. and new energy business and of energy-saving equipment 62.2 Segment Major Contributing 107 Products such as inverters in the power electronics systems business 8,870 29% Power and New Clean energy 113.6 and IGBT modules in the electronic devices business. This 900 3% Energy facilities 137.3 3,950 13% Food and Beverage amount of reduction was equivalent to 2% of Japan’s total Distribution Vending machines greenhouse gas emissions in fiscal 2016 (approximately 1.3 Electronic Devices IGBT modules Fuji Electric positions the preservation of the environment as billion tons). 546.6 16,440 55% Power Electronics Inverters, UPSs Basic Environmental Protection Policy Beginning with fiscal 2019, Fuji Electric will work toward Systems among its top management priorities, and it has established its Basic Environmental Protection Policy to guide activities for 1. Offering products and technologies that contribute to global accomplishing the target for reductions to society’s CO2 emisaddressing environmental issues. We have since been consisenvironmental protection sions through products set in the Environmental Vision 2050 –51.9 Reductions to tent in our approach to reducing the environmental impacts of 2. Reduction of environmental burden throughout product lifecycles (50 million tons in fiscal 2030). Net sales CO2 emissions through products our business activities, and today we have in place an environ3. Reduction of environmental burden in business activities Note: T  he contributions to CO2 emission reductions refers to CO2 emission reductions mental management system that facilitates contributions to from products shipped in and after fiscal 2009 that were in operation for a year. environmental preservation through our business. 4. Compliance with laws, regulations, and standards Calculated based on the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry's Guideline for Quantifying Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Contribution In regard to global warming countermeasures in fiscal 2018, 5. Establishment of environment management systems and Products Contributing to Reductions to Society’s CO2 Emissions contributions to CO2 emission reductions from products totaled continuous improvements of the systems Material Management 30,160,000 tons as a result of the high number of contributing 6. Improvement of employees’ environmental awareness and products shipped. Meanwhile, greenhouse emissions from social contribution Geothermal Power Generation Case production activities increased by 15,000 tons because of 7. Promotion of communication Example Contribution to reductions of 4 million tons of CO2 a year Initiatives higher production levels, but emissions per unit of production Geothermal power is a form of renewable energy that is generated using steam and hot decreased by 1 ton per ¥100 million worth of production. water underground. Binary geothermal power generation employs new technologies that The ratio of waste sent to landfills, a target for our efforts to Fuji Electric’s Environmental Vision 2050 make it possible to generate geothermal power using low-temperature heat sources. These contribute to the realization of a recycling-oriented society, was technologies are put to use in the Takigami Binary Geothermal Power Plant, which is located 1.6% on a Companywide basis, a reduction of 0.7 percentage at the foot of Mount Kuju in Oita Prefecture. Fuji Electric was contracted for procurement, We aim to achieve a “Low-Carbon Society,” “Recycling-Oriented Society,” production, and construction activities pertaining to this power plant, which went onstream point year on year. and “Society in Harmony with Nature” by expanding use of Fuji Electric’s in March 2017 boasting a generation capacity of 5,050 kW, among the largest in Japan. Meanwhile, we helped protect biodiversity through ocean innovative clean energy technology and energy-saving products. The geothermal power generation plants Fuji Electric has delivered since 2009 have a and river preservation initiatives conducted as part of our social combined total generation capacity of 846 MW. The combined total CO2 emissions from these plants is 4 million tons less per year than would be emitted by standard thermal power Takigami Binary Geothermal Power Station contribution activities. Realize a Low-Carbon Society From fiscal 2019 forward, we will be adhering to the newly generation plants with the same generation capacity. Target a reduction of 80% or more in greenhouse gas emissions established Environmental Vision 2050 as we seek to contribacross the supply chain ute to the realization of a low-carbon society, a recyclingAnnual Reductions to CO2 Emissions (1,000 t-CO2) oriented society, and a society in harmony with nature. Realize a RecyclingRealize a Society in General-Purpose Inverters Case Based on fiscal 2018 shipments of mega-type general-purpose inverters Oriented Society Harmony with Nature Example Contribution to reductions of 1.2 million tons of Promote green supply chains and Aim for zero influence on the CO2 a year through energy savings 2,480 3R* activities to reduce ecosystem by corporate activities environmental impact to zero contributing to biodiversity Inverters are used to control motor rotations in pumps, fans, and conveyance systems. With inverter control, the amount of electricity consumption 1,240 –1,240 decreases in proportion to the cube of the motor rotations. Electric equipment using inverter control can therefore save 50% more energy compared with equipment not using inverters (damper control), assuming operation at Fiscal 2030 Target 80% wind output. Pre-installation Post-installation Reducing Environmental Burden Creating Environmental Value In fiscal 2018, we shipped roughly 15,000 mega-type general-purpose Note: Calculated under standard operating conditions inverters (with a combined capacity of 100 kW), contributing to reductions of 50% decrease in electricity con•R  educe greenhouse gas emissions • R FRENIC-MEGA  educe 50 million tons of CO2 1.2 million tons of CO2 a year. general-purpose inverter sumption when operating with 20% during production by 31% emissions through products reduction in wind output CO2 coefficients (Greenhouse gas emissions’ base annually Japan: 0.496 kg-CO2 year: Fiscal 2013) Overseas: 0.506 kg-CO2 * Reduce, reuse, recycle 33 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 34 Realization of a Low-Carbon Society— Realization of a Recycling-Oriented Society Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions During Production Efficient Use of Water Resources Companywide Water Usage Volumes Water recycling rate (%) Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Recycled water / Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Production Activities Production Activities and Target Companywide Water Usage in Fiscal 2018 and Recycling Rate 12.2 Water usage Emissions per unit of Japan: 7,503,000 tons Water usage (1,000 tons) 499,000 tons* 13,478,000 tons Emissions (1,000 t-CO2) production (tons/¥100 million) (Target: 7,297,000 tons) Overseas: 5,974,000 tons (down 7% from fiscal 2013) (Target: 5,901,000 tons) 151 8.8 7.8 13,165 12,523 13,478 As part of its efforts to contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society, 119 118 As part of its efforts to efficiently use water resources, Fuji Electric is increasing Fuji Electric is working to reduce the greenhouse gases emitted during 536 499 its water recycling rates with the goal of reducing total water usage. 484 –31% 6,444 5,288 5,974 production activities. When converted to a CO2 basis, total greenhouse gas In fiscal 2018, we failed to meet our water usage targets both in Japan 148 emissions in fiscal 2018 amounted to 499,000 tons, an increase of 15,000 128 142 370 and overseas due to higher production levels. However, the water recycling 56 tons and a reduction of 1 ton per ¥100 million worth of production in terms rate rose by 3.4 percentage points year on year due to the recycling of an 6,721 7,235 7,503 of emissions per unit of production compared with the previous year. 388 356 357 additional 600,000 tons of water at the Malaysia Factory. 314 Of this, CO2 emissions came to 357,000 tons, an increase of 1,000 Going forward, we will endeavor to further reduce Companywide water 2016 2017 2018 (FY) tons year on year. This outcome is largely a result of higher orders, and usage by raising water recycling rates at factories. 2013 2017 2018 2030 (FY) Japan Overseas consequently production of, power semiconductors and other offerings Base year Target Companywide water recycling rate in the electronic devices business and products such as energy-saving Waste Reduction equipment and systems in the power electronics systems business. CO2 Other greenhouse gases Emissions per unit of production Amount and Ratio of Waste Sent to Landfills Energy conservation activities aimed at reducing CO2 emissions had Note: Emissions are calculated using actual or forecast electricity consumption Ratio of Waste Sent to Landfills (Companywide) Japan: 0.6% Amount of waste sent to landfills (tons) 1.6% the benefit of lowering emissions by 8,000 tons on a Companywide for each fiscal year (power coefficient for fiscal 2018: 0.496 kg-CO2e/kWh). (Target: Less than 0.5%) Ratio of waste sent to landfills (%) Overseas: 3.7% (Amount of waste sent to landfills / basis. Renewable energy usage is being promoted as one facet of these (Target: Less than 7.0%) 1,801 Total waste produced) activities. On this front, we installed a new solar power generation system at Wuxi Fuji Electric FA Co., Ltd., of China. This system is supFuji Electric’s initiatives to reduce waste production volumes and the ratio plying clean energy that accounts for approximately 20% of the electricof waste sent to landfills includes making lighter and more compact prodity used to power the factory’s production activities. ucts and reducing defective products at the manufacturing stage. 5.3 Emissions of greenhouse gases other than CO2 totaled 142,000 tons, 762 On a Companywide basis, the ratio of waste sent to landfills in fiscal up 14,000 tons year on year. This increase was primarily due to the bol543 2018 decreased 0.7 percentage point, to 1.6%. Overseas, this ratio was stering of equipment to accommodate higher production levels in the 3.7%, 3.3 percentage points lower than the target of 7.0%, due to a 2.3 electronic devices business. 1.6 change in the sludge treatment method at the Malaysia Factory. In fiscal 2019 and beyond, we will be accelerating initiatives for achievLooking ahead, Fuji Electric will continue striving to reduce the 2016 2017 2018 (FY) ing the greenhouse gas emissions reduction target set for fiscal 2030. CO2 Companywide ratio of waste sent to landfills below 1.0% by fiscal 2030. emission reduction initiatives will include tracking energy usage and installAmount of waste sent to landfills Ratio of waste sent to landfills Material Management ing LED lighting and high-efficiency air conditioners. As for greenhouse gases other than CO2, we will target emission reductions by installing abatement apparatus and switching to alternative gases. Realization of a Society in Initiatives Note: The power coefficient used for conversions is 0.496 kg-CO2e/kWh. Fuji Electric Biodiversity Action Guidelines Harmony with Nature 1. R  educe environmental impact through our Guided by the Fuji Electric Biodiversity Action Guidelines, the Company is energy and environment technologies, and advancing biodiversity preservation activities through its social contribution contribute to biodiversity activities and through its business of supplying products that reduce air 2. M  inimize the impact of our business on pollution and other environmental impacts. biodiversity and promote sustainable use For example, the SOx scrubbers released in fiscal 2018 (see page 18) 3. W  ork with society to actively promote help prevent air pollution by cleaning ship exhaust gas to remove more biodiversity action than 98% of the pollutant sodium oxide (SOx) contained therein. Case Prevention of Global Warming through Energy Savings in Production Activities Example Suzuka Factory The Suzuka Factory is our principal production base for power electronics system products, Case Reduction of Amount of Waste Sent to Landfills and this factory is aggressively pursuing energy savings through three initiatives to help prevent global warming. Example Malaysia Factory The first initiative was the introduction of an energy usage monitoring system that can monitor electricity usage conditions by piece of equipment, which has made it possible to The waste water produced during the manufacture of electronic devices is discharged into implement real-time energy conservation efforts. The second initiative was to improve rivers after extracting the metal-containing sludge through treatment procedures. As recent energy efficiency. Measures with this regard included the replacement of aged equipment as fiscal 2016, the Malaysia Factory was burying this sludge, which was thus accounted for with Fuji Electric inverters and high-efficiency air conditioners, which are effective in reducdirectly in the amount of waste sent to landfills. As the Malaysia Factory was searching for ing the energy consumption of production equipment. The third initiative was to entrench methods of putting this sludge to better use, AKBK Sustainable Resource Management energy conservation awareness among all employees. All employees at the Suzuka Energy usage monitoring system Centre, a new waste recycling plant operated by a Japanese company, was established. Factory are taking part in energy conservation activities, such as regularly turning off We were thus prompted to look into the possibility of recycling this sludge as cement, a lights. These initiatives resulted in a 1% year-on-year reduction in total electricity conwaste treatment method that had not been used in Malaysia previously. We were able to sumption in fiscal 2018, despite the overall increase of 6% in total production hours,* to adopt this treatment method, and recycling commenced when the AKBK Sustainable 850,000 hours, that stemmed from higher production levels. Resource Management Centre started operation in fiscal 2017. As a result, the amount of AKBK Sustainable Resource Management waste sent to landfills at the Malaysia Factory in fiscal 2018 was approximately 70% lower Centre (Malaysia) * Total production hours is the sum of all hours spent by all employees directly performing production processes. than in fiscal 2016. 35 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 36 Corporate Governance Fuji Electric is reinforcing its corporate governance toward the improvement of its management Outside Officers transparency and its oversight function. Fuji Electric proactively appoints Outside Officers with a view to to deepen their understanding of Fuji Electric’s management. strengthening the management supervisory function from an In fiscal 2018, a business site inspection took place at Chiba Basic Policies objective perspective and maintaining the validity and appropriFactory. Outside Officers were given explanations of the factory ateness of business decisions. Based on the following indepenafter which they toured the To help realize our corporate philosophy, in which we pledge as 1. Protecting shareholder rights and ensuring their equal dence criteria, Fuji Electric ensures that Outside Officers remain actual productions floors and responsible corporate citizens in a global society to strengthen treatment independent of the Company, and notification has been submitengaged in discussions with our trust with communities, customers, and partners, Fuji 2. Conducting appropriate collaboration with non-shareholder ted that these Outside Officers are Independent Directors / factory managers. Electric is enhancing management transparency and oversight stakeholders Auditors as required by domestic financial exchanges, including functions, and reinforcing corporate governance while pursuing 3. Guaranteeing proper information disclosure and ensuring the Tokyo Stock Exchange. the following policies. transparency After their appointment, Outside Officers participate in 4. Executing the duties of the Board of Directors internal technology presentations and business site inspections Tour of Chiba Factory 5. Engaging in dialogue with shareholders Outside Directors Corporate Governance Framework Status of Attendance at Board of Directors Directors and Board of Directors General Meeting of Shareholders The Board of Directors conducts decision Name Meetings (Meetings Attended/ Main Activities (Fiscal 2018) making and oversight of the management of Meetings Held) Fuji Electric Appointment/ Appointment/ Appointment/ Fuji Electric and the execution of important Mr. Tamba offered opinions as necessary on all areas of Fuji Electric’s management at the Board of Dismissal Dismissal Dismissal business activities. The terms of Directors Directors meetings, including on the following matters, based on his professional standpoint and considerBoard of Directors Board of Auditors have been set as one year in order to clarify Toshihito Tamba 13/13 able insight as a manager of listed companies. ■ Formulation of a business plan taking into account changes in the market environment Accounting the management responsibilities of Directors Comprising 8 Directors Comprising 5 Auditors ■ Appropriate ways to conduct investor relations (IR) activities Auditor for each fiscal year and create a framework (including 3 Outside Audit (including 3 Outside Cooperation Directors) Auditors) that is conducive to flexible responses to Mr. Tachikawa offered opinions as necessary on all areas of Fuji Electric’s management at the Board of operating environment changes. Directors meetings, including on the following matters, based on his professional standpoint and considerConsultation Recommendations Naoomi Tachikawa 13/13 able insight as a manager of listed companies. Oversight Audit Auditors and Board of Auditors ■ Management of progress for large-scale projects Nomination and ■ Necessity of paying attention to material procurement and human resources Remuneration Report The Board of Auditors inspects Fuji Electric’s Committee management and business execution. Mr. Hayashi offered opinions as necessary on all areas of Fuji Electric’s management at the Board of Directors meetings, including on the following matters, based on his professional standpoint and considerExecutive Committee Nomination and Remuneration Yoshitsugu Hayashi 10/13 able insight as an environmental engineer. Committee ■ Appropriate ways to carry out research and development The Nomination and Remuneration Committee ■ Initiatives aimed at reducing Fuji Electric’s environmental footprint Executive ensures the transparency and objectivity of the President Officers process for the nomination and remuneration of Deliberation Standing Outside Auditors Directors and Auditors. The committee is comMaterial Management Report Auditors posed of Standing and Outside Directors with a Status of Attendance at majority of Outside Directors, and the commitBoard of Directors Meetings Internal Auditing tee Chairman is an Outside Director. The comStatus of Attendance at Name Main Activities (Fiscal 2018) Initiatives Divisions mittee began its activities in July 2019. Board of Auditors Meetings Committees Executive Committee (Meetings Attended/ (Fuji Electric Compliance Meetings Held) The Executive Committee deliberates important Promotion Committee, etc.) Mr. Sato confirmed and offered opinions as necessary at meetings of the Board of Directors concerning matters and makes reports to enable monitoring 13/13 agenda items and the status of Fuji Electric’s business activities based on his extensive experience and of the status of management as a consulting Yoshiki Sato considerable insight as a manager at financial institutions. At meetings of the Board of Auditors, he conbody for the president. The Executive 7/8 firmed and offered opinions on the legal compliance of the overall business activities of Fuji Electric. Subsidiaries Committee is composed of Executive Officers and is always attended by Standing Auditors. Ms. Kimura confirmed and offered opinions as necessary at meetings of the Board of Directors concerning 13/13 agenda items and the status of Fuji Electric’s business activities based on her expert knowledge as an Board of Auditors Accounting Akiko Kimura attorney. At meetings of the Board of Auditors, she confirmed and offered opinions on the legal compliance Directors Auditor Executive Officers 8/8 Executive Officers conduct business execution of the overall business activities of Fuji Electric. functions and their terms have been set as one Mr. Hiramatsu confirmed and offered opinions as necessary at meetings of the Board of Directors concernExecutive Committee year. The duties of each Executive Officer are 13/13 ing agenda items and the status of Fuji Electric’s business activities based on his extensive experience and decided by a resolution of the Board of Tetsuo Hiramatsu considerable insight as a manager at financial institutions. At meetings of the Board of Auditors, he con8/8 Directors, thereby clarifying responsibilities and firmed and offered opinions on the legal compliance of the overall business activities of Fuji Electric. President Executive improving the efficiency of business execution. Committee Members Independence Criteria for Outside Officers The Company judges the applicable candidate to be fully independent from the Company when he/she does not fall under any of Internal Auditing the conditions listed below in addition to criteria of independence stipulated by domestic financial exchanges including the Tokyo Divisions Stock Exchange. Major Regulations and Committees Comprising Internal Control Systems (1) Major shareholder A major shareholder of the Company (who owns 10% or more of the voting rights) or its executor of business. (2) Major business partner A business partner (consultants such as lawyers, certified public accountants, and tax accountants, as well as consulting • Corporate Philosophy • Fuji Electric Compliance • Fuji Electric Rules for • Fuji Electric Code of Conduct Regulations Prevention of Insider Trading firms such as law firms, audit firms, and tax firms) or a person executing its business whose transactions with the Company • Fuji Electric Job Authority • Fuji Electric Compliance • Fuji Electric Group exceed 2% of the annual consolidated net sales of the Company or the other entity in the past three fiscal years. Rules Program Contingency Plan for (3) Major lender, etc. A financial institution, other major creditor, or a person executing the business of these institutions that is indispensable for • Fuji Electric Compliance • Business Ethics Emergency Situations the Company’s funding and on which the Company depends to the extent that it is irreplaceable. Promotion Committee Whistle-Blowing System • Auditor Liaison Committee (4) Accounting auditor A certified public accountant who belongs to an auditing firm that serves as the accounting auditor of the Company or • Fuji Electric Risk Management employee, etc. of such auditing firm. Rules (5) Donee A person executing the business of an organization which receives a donation exceeding 10 million year per year that is greater than 2% of its annual income from the Company for the past three fiscal years. 37 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 38 Executive Remuneration Audits by the Board of Auditors and Internal Audits Fuji Electric has established a remuneration system and remushareholder mandates, giving due consideration to the aims of Audits by the Board of Auditors  neration levels for Directors and Auditors that are deemed securing and maintaining competent personnel and providing Auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors and other increased coordination with the Accounting Auditor and with appropriate for their respective duties and in accordance with incentives for the improvement of business performance. important meetings based on the audit policies and duties internal auditing divisions. At the monthly meetings of the assigned in accordance with the standards for audits put forth Auditor Liaison Committee, Auditors share information with Standing Directors  Outside Directors and Auditors  by the Board of Auditors. Audits are performed by receiving internal auditing divisions as well as report on the results of As Standing Directors are charged with the responsibility of Remuneration for Outside Directors and Auditors is paid as a explanations on the status of operational execution from the internal audits for the previous fiscal year and the internal improving consolidated operating performance for each fiscal predetermined amount as Outside Directors and Auditors are Directors, reviewing documents pertaining to important resoaudit plans for the year and realizing improvements in corporate value over the charged with the duty of supervising or auditing the execution lutions, investigating the status of operations and assets at current fiscal year. Through activities such as these, we are medium-to-long-term, their remuneration is structured and of duties across Fuji Electric. Outside Directors and Auditors major operating sites, and requesting reports on operations ensuring the effectiveness of audits across the Group. managed in two categories: base remuneration and performay acquire stock in the Company at their own discretion. from subsidiaries as necessary. In addition, Auditors pursue mance-linked remuneration. Base Remuneration Internal Audits  Base remuneration is a predetermined amount that is paid Internal auditing divisions perform internal audits based on were audited in fiscal 2018. No risks or inadequacies with the to executives according to their position. A portion of the base internal audit standards and annual audit plans. These audits potential to seriously impact management were discovered. remuneration is contributed to the director shareholding assolook at areas such as organizational management, risk manInformation on auditing activities is shared between the ciation to share the economic interests of shareholders and as agement, compliance, operational execution, and accounting internal auditing divisions of the Company and its subsidiaries an incentive to make management aware of share value. from the perspectives of legal compliance in business activities, in order to ensure the effectiveness of internal audits across Performance-Linked Remuneration reliability of financial reporting, preservation of asset portfolios, the Group. Performance-linked remuneration is paid only in instances and operational effectiveness and efficiency. A total of 44 bases in which dividends are paid to all shareholders from retained earnings. The total amount of executive performance remuneration shall be within 1.0% of consolidated net income for the fiscal year prior to the date of payment in order to make the link Approach to Cross-Shareholdings with consolidated results for each fiscal year more clearly. Fuji Electric holds shares in listed companies only when it deterprehensive evaluations at meetings of the Board of Directors on mines that doing so is necessary from the standpoint of mainthe risks and returns that result from holding such shares and Remuneration Paid to Directors and Auditors (Fiscal 2018) taining and strengthening business alliances and transactions sells off cross-shareholdings in cases when it determines that Remuneration by Type (Millions of Yen) for business activities. The Company regularly conducts comthere is no rationality for holding such shares. Total Remuneration Classification Performance-Linked Number of Recipients (Millions of Yen) Base Remuneration Remuneration Directors (excluding Outside Directors) 365 240 125 5 Auditors (excluding Outside Auditors) 58 58 — 2 Material Management Outside Officers 50 50 — 6 Notes: The above amount is the amount of performance-linked remuneration to be paid to Directors, which was determined in June 2019. Initiatives The amount of performance-linked remuneration in fiscal 2017 was ¥115 million. Internal Control System With the aim of complying with laws and regulations, managing information on the implementation of its internal control system, the risk of loss, and securing the efficiency of the execution of thereby taking steps to respond promptly and accurately to the duties, the Fuji Electric Board of Directors determines basic demands placed upon the Company by society. Such informapolicies concerning the establishment of an internal control tion includes descriptions of provisions for ensuring that Directors system as stipulated in the Companies Act of Japan, and the and employees perform their duties in a manner that is compliant Company discloses those policies. Fuji Electric discloses with laws and the articles of incorporation. Main Systems Based on the Internal Control System  Compliance System (Please refer to page 42 for details.) Risk Management System (Please refer to page 44 for details.) Based on systems for ensuring that Directors and employees Based on regulations and other systems pertaining to managperform their duties in a manner that is compliant with laws ing the risk of loss, Fuji Electric has developed an appropriate and the articles of incorporation, Fuji Electric has established risk management system in order to manage business risks in and promotes a compliance system in order to secure the a coordinated, systematic manner. In regard to specific crosstransparency and soundness of business execution. sectional risks, the Company determines departments to put in charge of each risk, thereby establishing a risk management system. 39 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 40 List of Officers (As of July 1, 2019) Compliance Directors Fuji Electric employs thorough measures to ensure compliance with laws and corporate ethics and always acts with the highest ethical standards to achieve sustained corporate growth. Basic Policies We state in the Fuji Electric Code of Conduct that we shall Regulations, which is a concrete guideline for compliance, President and Chairman of Elected Corporate Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director the Board of Directors “make global compliance a top priority,” and this has been and we promote compliance through the Fuji Electric Kenzo Sugai Toshihito Tamba Naoomi Tachikawa Yoshitsugu Hayashi incorporated into our basic policy on compliance. Based upon Compliance Program and the Fuji Electric Business Ethics Michihiro Kitazawa Chairman & Co-CEO, Professor, Institute of this policy, we have established the Fuji Electric Compliance Whistle-Blowing Systems. Representative Director, Science and Technology Tokyo Century Corporation Research, Chubu University Compliance Promotion System The Fuji Electric Compliance Promotion Committee—headed by Board of Directors. Furthermore, in the event of a compliance a representative director and composed of the managers (corpoinfraction, the committee has a system in place to take any rate general managers and general managers) responsible for necessary measures after carrying out deliberations on conductregulating laws and/or acts, with Standing Auditors and ing fact-finding investigations, taking corrective actions, taking outside experts (attorneys) as observers—has jurisdiction over measures to prevent a recurrence, dealing with the infraction Director Director Director compliance of Fuji Electric. With the goal of achieving full compliinternally, and internal and external disclosure. Michio Abe Masatsugu Tomotaka Junichi Arai ance with laws and social norms globally, the committee meets twice each fiscal year to deliberate on compliance execution and planning and reports the results of these deliberations to the Auditors Fuji Electric Compliance Regulations Board of Directors President and Chairman of the Board of Directors (Executive Committee) Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing Systems Standing Auditor Standing Auditor Outside Auditor Outside Auditor Outside Auditor Business Ethics Helpline ■ Material Management Yoshio Okuno Junichi Matsumoto Yoshiki Sato Akiko Kimura Tetsuo Hiramatsu Fuji Electric Compliance (reports from employees) Chairman of the Board, Of Counsel, Anderson Mori President, NIPPON TOCHIFuji Electric Compliance Program Partner Hotline ■ Promotion Committee (reports from materials suppliers) Asahi Mutual Life Insurance & Tomotsune TATEMONO Co., Ltd. Company Note: Hotline contact points are in-house points Initiatives External Auditor, ADEKA and external lawyers Corporation Outside Director, FUJI KYUKO CO., LTD. President, National Federation of UNESCO Associations in JAPAN Status of Compliance Promotion Executive Officers （2018年7月1日現在） (1) Fuji Electric Compliance Program  President Michihiro Kitazawa General Management Fuji Electric has established the Fuji Electric Compliance Compliance Education Executive Vice President Kenzo Sugai Assistant to the President, Sales Management Program, which brings together four aspects (see numbers Based on the Fuji Electric Compliance Program, Fuji Electric 1–4 below) of domestic, overseas laws (laws regarding antipromotes wide-ranging compliance education and instruction Michio Abe In charge of Production & Procurement and Power Generation Business Senior Managing Executive corruption, fair competition, labor, human rights, product through level-specific and job-specific group training and Officers In charge of Power Electronics Systems Energy Business and Power Electronics Systems safety, the environment, taxation, accounting and information e-learning programs, as well as displaying posters internally Masatsugu Tomotaka Industry Business security, and export management as well as other areas) for and distributing pamphlets. Corporate General Manager, Corporate Management Planning Headquarters, General Manager, Junichi Arai the Company and Group companies in Japan and overseas. Managing Executive Officers Export Administration Office, In charge of compliance management and crisis management The Fuji Electric Compliance Promotion Committee Toru Housen Corporate General Manager, Electronic Devices Business Group implements the program while continuously reviewing it and Executive Officers Takeshi Kadoshima General Manager, Human Resources and General Affairs Office making revisions. Kenji Goto Deputy Corporate General Manager, Power Electronics Systems Energy Business Group 1. E  stablishment, revision, abolition, and dissemination of Yasuhiro Takahashi Corporate General Manager, Food and Beverage Distribution Business Group internal rules 2. C  onstant monitoring of status of compliance with laws and Training for newly appointed Susumu Shinmura Corporate General Manager, Sales Group internal rules managers Masahiro Morimoto Corporate General Manager, Power Electronics Systems Energy Business Group 3. Auditing of status of compliance with respect to 1. and 2. Shiro Kondo Corporate General Manager, Corporate R&D Headquarters 4. Compliance education regarding laws and internal rules Tadao Horie Corporate General Manager, Power Generation Business Group Masashi Kawano Corporate General Manager, Production & Procurement Group Hiroshi Tetsutani Corporate General Manager, Power Electronics Systems Industry Business Group 41 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 42 Risk Management Examples of Training Conducted in Fiscal 2018 Participants Type and Subject of Training Fuji Electric is strengthening its risk management to maximize corporate value and minimize the potential impact of risks. Level-Specific Newly appointed executives 27 Classroom-based training on topics including the Fuji Electric compliance system and Newly appointed managers 97 Training the Fuji Electric Compliance Program New employees 234 Training for All Basic Policies All employees e-learning program on the protection of personal information and other topics Employees Based on the Fuji Electric Risk Management Rules, the prevent risks from materializing (crisis situations), thereby miniCompany manages risk in a coordinated, systematic manner. mizing the impact on management in the event that risks We will practice appropriate management and counter various materialize. (2) Fuji Electric Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing Systems  risks that could affect the Company’s management in order to To prevent infractions of the aforementioned laws, regulations, Framework of the Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing Systems and internal rules and ensure early detection, Fuji Electric has introduced, and is operating, the Fuji Electric Business Ethics Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing Systems Types of Risk and Risk Management System Whistle-Blowing Systems. Under these systems, internal and external parties can report violations or suspected violations of Partner Hotline Business Ethics Helpline Risk Classification System Risk Management System laws, regulations, or internal rules to Fuji Electric’s president via Fuji Electric divides risks into categories and conducts risk Fuji Electric’s business divisions and affiliate companies are the department responsible for compliance or through an extermanagement optimized for each category. responsible for the management of risk related to their business nal lawyer. These systems rigorously protect whistle-blowers by Whistle-blower (external) Whistle-blower (internal) activities as part of their business responsibilities, developing concealing their identity and prohibiting them from being subappropriate risk management systems and implementing risk ject to disadvantageous treatment, retaliation, or discrimination External lawyer General manager External Risks Business Risks countermeasures. on the grounds of whistle-blowing. Inform details of whistle-blowing of the legal office Additionally, significant risks, such as business plans and These systems are the Business Ethics Helpline, which hanRisks related to Risks related to business activities large-scale investments, are reported at the Executive dles notifications from our employees in Japan and overseas Report of whistle-blowing the external environment Committee as appropriate, thereby facilitating the sharing of (including dispatch employees); and the Partner Hotline, which President Strategic Operational Common information. handles notifications from our suppliers about Fuji Electric’s mateDetermine the department to deal with • Economic trends Risks Risks Risks Report rials procurement operations. The Business Ethics Helpline is results the whistle-blowing case (take into account protection of the whistle-blower)  ttacks •A from Board of Board of Accounting Auditor outside Risks related to Risks related to Risks related to Directors Audit Auditors promoted among employees at all compliance training sessions • Natural  disasters policies and business business Cooperation Department to deal with strategies processes activities and through postings on the Company’s intranet and on internal the whistle-blowing case and accidents Oversight Report bulletin boards. Awareness of the Partner Hotline among business others • Management Quality, cost, • Human rights Report results strategy and deadlines and labor partners is fostered through postings on the Company’s website •B Internal Auditing  usiness for all aspects practices and at explanatory forums. Fuji Electric obtains reports of whistleReport results Executive Committee General manager of the environment of business •C ompliance Report Divisions • Corporate  such as orders, • Information  blowing cases filed every year and takes necessary measures— legal office governance production, systems Report such as conducting fact-finding investigations, taking corrective Feedback (except for cases of • Partnering  and shipment and • Environmental  External lawyer anonymous whistle-blowing) withdrawal services pollution actions, and taking Each Group Material Management Audit measures to prevent a recurrence—aimed at resolving issues others others others Whistle-blower Feedback (except for (Internal/External) Report raised by whistle-blowers. cases of anonymous whistle-blowing) Business Divisions, Branches, Initiatives Factories, Subsidiaries Results of Compliance Promotion Risk Management Process As a result of implementing the Fuji Electric Compliance Program corruption established a rule that no employee is to offer or and the Fuji Electric Business Ethics Whistle-Blowing Systems, receive bribes to or from publicor private-sector officials in any Fuji Electric implements an annual risk management process Annual Risk Management Process there were no compliance infractions with the potential to sericountry or region. Prevention of corruption is reinforced through and revises it continuously. When annual budgets are formuously impact management in fiscal 2018. thorough daily monitoring, auditing, and training. Stricter laws lated, business divisions and affiliate companies understand We are enhancing prevention of the violation of competition and regulations pertaining to corruption are being instituted in and evaluate risks related to their business activities. Policies Plan laws by establishing as rules the regulations set forth in the Southeast Asia and other regions. Fuji Electric is responding to and countermeasures in response to risks (aversion, mitigation, Understand and Antimonopoly Act Compliance Manual, the Foreign Competition this trend by constantly monitoring its operations through coorrelocation, retention and so forth) are considered based on their evaluate risks Law Compliance Manual, and other regulations, as well as daily dination with law firms and reflecting the new laws and regulaimpact on management and frequency of occurrence, a person Action Do monitoring through confirmation of quotations and estimates via tions in its rules and education when necessary. responsible for executing the policies and countermeasures is Improvement and Address risks an extensive information management system and thorough As a result of these initiatives, there were no serious probimplementation Consider policies designated, and the policies and countermeasures are impleof risk counterand counterrecord-keeping. In addition, auditing divisions perform audits in lems that warranted disclosure in fiscal 2018. mented. Mid-year progress checks are conducted at the end of measures measures accordance with auditing guidelines and extensive level-specific the second quarter of the fiscal year, and risk countermeasures Check and job-specific training is conducted. are improved and implemented. Mid-year As a result of these initiatives, there were no serious probprogress check • Results of education drills lems that warranted disclosure in fiscal 2018. • Organizational changes, personnel reassignments In regard to the prevention of corruption, the Fuji Electric • Revision of laws, Code of Conduct and a directive on the prevention of regulations, etc. • Apply experiences of addressing risks Audits by Auditing Divisions (Management system and operational status) 43 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 44 Social Outreach (Local Communities) Strengthening of Business Continuity Capabilities Our basic stance toward the communities surrounding our operating sites is to utilize the human resources and technologies developed through our business to build stronger relationships and foster ties by contributing to the resolution In order to uphold its social responsibilities as a company, Fuji of global social and environmental issues. To this end, we take part in various initiatives to help further the development Electric aims to continue core operations even if unexpected and energization of communities. events such as natural disasters and accidents occur by providing a stable supply of high performance, high-quality prodFuji Electric received Resilience certification under the program established by the Cabinet Secretariat’s ucts and services required by our customers. National Resilience Promotion Office in recognition of active efforts to ensure business continuity. Relationship Building with Communities Fire Safety and Disaster-Preparedness Initiatives  Environmental Preservation  Based on the Disaster Prevention and Procedural Manual, all of structures and facilities are earthquake resistant, stockpile Fuji Electric conducts tree planting, thinning, tree cutting, and Fuji Electric’s bases have developed disaster-response systems emergency goods, and conduct regular drills, among other other forest preservation activities centered on the communities and have put in place thorough measures to ensure that measures. surrounding its operating sites in Japan and overseas. These activities are in part based on the recognition that forests help Business Continuity Initiatives  absorb CO2 and thereby prevent global warming. In addition to fire safety and disaster-preparedness initiatives, Fuji Response to Natural Disasters in Fiscal 2018 The Company is also engaged in various other environmenElectric has formulated a business continuity plan (BCP) at the In fiscal 2018, Japan was struck by frequent natural disasters, tal preservation activities, including biodiversity conservation head office, which acts as a command center during disasters, including heavy rains in west Japan, an earthquake in the activities that take advantage of forests on factory sites. and at factories that house a large number of key management Kansai region, and the 2018 Hokkaido Eastern Iburi earthEmployees performing forestry work (Fuji Electric Meter Co., Ltd.) resources. We have also established Companywide BCPs for quake. Fuji Electric extends its condolences to those impacted Major Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 procurement sections, which manage the supply chain, and for by these disasters. ■ Forest restoration project (Azumino City, Nagano Prefecture) IT sections, which manage the information systems. No damages occurred to employees or physical assets at In fiscal 2018, we once again expanded the range of prodFuji Electric affiliates or bases and no significant impacts to pro■ Development of Musashino no Mori (Tokyo Factory) ucts covered under the BCP. In addition, we conducted simuladuction were seen. We responded to these disasters through tion drills based on large-scale earthquake and explosion coordination between the head office crisis response division, scenarios targeting business supervisors and base managers, procurement management divisions, customer-related divisions, while all employees took part in safety confirmation drills. Going and business divisions based on predetermined disaster forward, we will continue to expand the range of products response systems and procedures. covered under the BCP while In response to the widespread power outages that followed Musashino no Mori (Tokyo Factory) striving to raise awareness of the Hokkaido earthquake, we were able to avoid any significant Promotion of Youth Development  and make ongoing improveconfusion as a result of our efforts to swiftly confirm the safety of Fuji Electric holds science classes for elementary school stuments to it, thereby strengthemployees and the impact on customers. Taking the lessons dents at major factories in Japan. In these classes, we aim to ening business continuity learned through these disasters to heart, we installed emergency communicate to students the wonders of science and technolMaterial Management capabilities. power generators at various operational sites. ogy and the importance of manufacturing and to teach them about the social contributions made through these areas. Simulation drills in response to a In addition to classes for children, we also conduct a priInitiatives large-scale earthquake vate-sector corporate training program for teachers as one facet of our efforts to promote communication between companies and educators. This program is designed to help teachScience class (Kawasaki Factory) ers better understand the appeal of science and the importance Information Security of manufacturing while providing them with information on the latest technological trends and other topics. Participants have Implementation of Security Measures  been incorporating this information into their classes. To protect confidential and personal information properly, management and audits of workplaces. Major Initiatives in Fiscal 2018 Fuji Electric has formulated and implemented a policy and Fuji Electric has developed a countermeasure system and ■  cience classes for elementary school students S regulations related to information security with consideration established a computer security incident response team (at 10 factories in Japan) for the laws of relevant countries. In addition, information man(CSIRT) and a security operation center (SOC) to handle ever ■ P  rivate-sector corporate training for teachers agement systems are put in place at Group companies and more diversified cyber security risks, through which we moni(Board of Education of Hino City, Tokyo) Private-sector corporate training for teachers systems have been instituted to manage access to operational tor for attacks and quickly gain control in the event of attacks. ■  onations of educational supplies to Darma Persada University D (Hino City, Tokyo) sites and to information, among other information security We also take ongoing steps to improve our ability to respond (Indonesia) measures. Meanwhile, we endeavor to prevent information to the constant emergence of new threats through the reinleaks while strengthening information security by instituting forcement of our defense and detection systems and through Supporting Disaster Recovery and Reconstruction Efforts  annual training programs for employees and conducting cyber training. Fuji Electric provides reconstruction support to areas impacted seriously impacted (Hiroshima, Okayama, and Ehime). inspections and implementing improvements through effective by natural disasters in Japan and overseas. The Company and Group companies also made donations For example, the Company donated to assist the victims of to support reconstruction after the 2018 Hokkaido Eastern External Certification Related to Information Security  the heavy rains that struck west Japan in July 2018 and to Iburi earthquake. Companies that handle customers’ confidential and personal acquired information security management system (ISMS) certisupport reconstruction in the three prefectures that were most information and require high-level information security managefication. In addition, Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. and four subsidiaries ment have acquired external certification. As of April 1, 2019, a have acquired Privacy Mark certification. total of five departments at three Group companies have 45 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 46 Corporate Data Company Information (As of March 31, 2019) History Company Name FUJI ELECTRIC CO., LTD. Company Technology Established August 29, 1923 Head Office 1-1, Tanabeshinden, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki-shi, Kanagawa 210-9530, Japan 1923 1920 1924 Head Office Business Address Gate City Ohsaki, East Tower, 11-2, Osaki 1-chome, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0032, Japan Fuji Electric Manufacturing Co., Ltd., established Began manufacturing electric motors Established as a capital and technology alliance 1925 Capital Stock ¥47.6 billion between Japan Furukawa Electric Co., Ltd., Began transformer production Employees (Consolidated) 27,416 (Domestic 17,647, Overseas 9,769) and German Siemens AG. The result was a Net Sales (Consolidated) ¥914.9 billion (Year ended March 31, 2019) company with characteristics inherited from 1927 industry in both countries Began electric fan production Stock Code 6504 1925 1936 Began operation of the Built first hydraulic turbine, Kawasaki Factory 4,850 HP Francis Turbine Stock Information (As of March 31, 2019) 1942 1937 Began operation of the Matsumoto Factory Began watt-hour meter production Francis Turbine Issued and Outstanding Shares 320,000,000 Number of Shareholders 36,564 1943 Major Shareholders Began operation of the Number of shares Voting rights Fukiage and Toyoda factories Shareholders’ names (1,000s) (%) Company emblem, 1944 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 14,072 9.85 Began operation of the Mie Factory “FS” mark The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 13,449 9.42 1950 1954 1961 Began ultra-compact magnetic Ultra-compact magnetic FUJITSU LIMITED 4,066 2.85 Began operation of the Chiba Factory switch production switch production Asahi Mutual Life Insurance Company 3,955 2.77 1968 1959 FANUC CORPORATION 2,684 1.88 Merged with Kawasaki Denki Seizo Co., Ltd., Began manufacturing silicon diodes and commenced operations at the Kobe and 1969 The first Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 2,545 1.78 Suzuka factories Began production of vending machines vending machines Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 2,414 1.69 1973 1971 Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 2,250 1.58 Began operation of the Otawara Factory Began manufacturing hybrid ICs FURUKAWA CO., LTD. 2,205 1.54 1976 JP MORGAN CHASE BANK 385151 1,944 1.36 Began manufacturing general-purpose inverters Notes: 1. Treasury stock of 6,451,315 shares is excluded from the above list of top 10 shareholders. 2. The ratio of shareholding is calculated by deducting the number of treasury stock from the total number of shares outstanding based on the provisions of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act. 1984 1980 1985 General-purpose inverters Changed company name to Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. Released the programmable 1991 logic controller “MICREX-F Series” Share Distribution by Shareholder Type Began operation of the Yamanashi Factory 1987 Number of Holding 2002 Developed IGBT module Type shareholders Number of shares (%) Introduced Company 1991 Financial institutions / securities firms 156 64,808,745 43.41 symbol mark Developed 2.5-inch magnetic disks Other domestic corporations 466 14,100,181 9.45 Symbol mark 2003 1996 Foreign corporations 627 46,271,318 30.99 Changed company name to Fuji Electric Holdings Co., Won order for IGBT main conversion Individuals and others 35,315 24,116,747 16.15 Ltd., owing to shift to pure holding company system devices used in electric railways 2008 (The world’s first large-capacity flat IGBT) Total 36,564 149,296,991 100.00 Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems Co., Ltd., 1998 Flat IGBT Corporate Information Note: “Individuals and others” includes treasury stock. merged operations with Schneider Electric Delivered 100 kW phosphoric acid fuel cell Japan Ltd. Share Price and Trading Volume Fluctuations (Tokyo Stock Exchange) (Power distribution and control equipment joint (Yen) venture) 5,000 SiC module 2011 2010 2010 Changed company name to Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. Developed next-generation 4,000 Inverters equipped with 2014 SiC module power semiconductor power semiconductor Created new corporate brand emblem for products 2012 SiC-SBD 3,000 Developed inverter equipped with next-generation power semiconductor SiC-SBD, a first in Japan (Million of shares) 2014 300 Launched power electronics equipped Power conditioning 200 with SiC power semiconductors systems for high-capacity Emblem 2015 mega solar use 100 Launched steam-generation heat pumps 0 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 (Month) 2018 2019 2018 Exhaust gas Began manufacturing exhaust cleaning systems Share Price Trading Volume gas cleaning systems for ships for ships Note: Effective October 1, 2018, the Company conducted a one-for-five reverse stock split pertaining to shares of common stock. Share price and trading figures have been restated to reflect this stock split. 47 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 48 Corporate Data Europe Americas Global Network 1 Fuji Electric Europe GmbH ⓾ Fuji Electric Corp. of America ■ ❷ Switzerland Branch ⓫ Virginia Factory* ● (As of July 1, 2019) ❸ U.K. Branch ⓬ Chicago Branch ❹ France Branch ⓭ Santa Ana Branch ● ❺ Italy Branch ⓮ Fremont Branch ● ❻ Spain Branch ■ ⓯ Reliable Turbine Services LLC 7 Fuji N2telligence GmbH ■ ⓰ Fuji SEMEC Inc.* ♳ Hokkaido Division ♴ Hokkaido Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. 8 Fuji Electric France S.A.S.* 9 Middle East Branch ❸ ● ■■ ● ❷ ■ ■●❹ ● ❺ ■■ ■ ● ❻ ⓮ ● ⓬ ■ ● ⓫ ■■ ● ⓭ ■ ㉓ Hokuriku Division Kanazawa Branch ㉔ Hakko Electronics Co., Ltd. ■ ■ ♵ Fuji Electric Tsugaru Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ♶ Tohoku Division ■ ■ ■ ■● ● ■ ⓴ ● ● ■ ㉚ Kansai Division ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ㉛ Hoei Denki Co., Ltd. ■■ ■ ■ ㉜ Kobe Factory ■ ⓳ ● ■ ● ■ ■■ ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■■ ● ⓲ ● ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■ ● ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■■■ ■ ■ ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ● ● ■ ■ ■ China / East Asia ■ Chugoku■ Division ■ ■■ ㊶ Fuji Electric (Zhuhai) Co., Ltd.* ■ ■ 5 Kawasaki Factory ⓭ Fuji Electric F-Tech Co., Ltd. ■ ■■ ■ ■ ■■■ 6 Chiba Factory ⓮ East Kanto Branch ㊷ Fuji Electric (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd.* ■ ■ Kyushu Division Shikoku Division ■■■ 7 Tsukuba Factory ⓯ North Kanto Branch ㊸ Fuji Electric FA (Asia) Co., Ltd. ■ ■■ 8 Fukiage Factory ⓰ Fuji Furukawa Engineering South Asia Southeast Asia ㊹ Fuji Electric Hong Kong Co., Ltd. ■■ 9 Otawara Factory & Construction Co., Ltd. ⓱ Fuji Electric India Private Ltd. ㉕ Fuji Electric (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ㊺ Hoei Hong Kong Co., Ltd. ⓾ Chichibu Fuji Co., Ltd. ⓲ India Factory* ㉖ Fuji Electric Manufacturing ㊻ Fuji Electric (Changshu) Co., Ltd.* ⓫ Ibaraki Fuji Co., Ltd. ⓳ Ahmedabad Branch (Thailand) Co., Ltd.* ㊼ Wuxi Fuji Electric FA Co., Ltd.* ⓬ Facility Technology Center ⓴ Delhi Branch ㉗ Fuji Tusco Co., Ltd.* ㊽ Fuji Electric (Hangzhou) Software Co., Ltd. Corporate Information ㉑ Bangalore Branch ㉘ Fuji Electric (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.* ㊾ Fuji Electric (China) Co., Ltd. ⓱ Chubu Division ㉒ Chennai Branch ㉙ Fuji Electric Sales Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Toyota Branch ㊿ West China Branch Tokyo ㉓ Kolkata Branch ㉚ Fuji Electric Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. ⓲ F uji Electric FA Service Co., Ltd.  South China Branch ⓳ Mie Factory Head Office ㉔ Fuji Gemco Private Limited* ㉛ Fuji SMBE Pte. Ltd.*  North China Branch ⓴ Suzuka Factory Hatchobori Branch ㉜ PT Fuji Electric Indonesia  Shanghai Electric Fuji Electric Power ㉑ Mie Fuji Co., Ltd. Tokyo Factory ㉝ P.T. Fuji Metec Semarang* Technology (Wuxi) Co., Ltd.* ㉒ Hoei Plastics Co., Ltd. Fuji Electric FA Components & Systems Co., Ltd. ㉞ Fuji Electric Vietnam Co., Ltd. Fuji Electric Technica Co., Ltd.  Fuji Electric Dalian Co., Ltd.* ㉟ Fuji CAC Joint Stock Company Fuji Electric Finance and Accounting Support Co., Ltd.  Fuji Electric Motor (Dalian) Co., Ltd.* ㊱ Fuji Electric Philippines, Inc.* Fuji Office & Life Service Co., Ltd.  Dalian Fuji Bingshan Vending ㉕ Matsumoto Factory Fuji IT Co., Ltd. ㊲ Fuji Electric Sales Philippines Inc. Machine Co., Ltd.* ㉖ Yamanashi Factory Fuji Electric IT Center Co., Ltd. ㊳ Fuji Electric Co., Ltd.  Dalian Fuji Bingshan Control Systems Co., Ltd. ㉗ Fuji Electric Meter Co., Ltd. Fuji Electric IT Solutions Co., Ltd. (Myanmar Branch Office) ㉘ Fuji Electric Power Semiconductor Co., Ltd.  Dalian Fuji Bingshan Vending Fuji Festec Co., Ltd. ㊴ Rep. Office of Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. ㉙ Shinshu Fuji Electric Co., Ltd. Fuji Electric Retail Service Co., Ltd. Machine Sales Co., Ltd. Affiliated companies (in Cambodia)  Fuji Electric Taiwan Co., Ltd. ■ Okinawa Overseas offices ㊵ Fuji Electric Co., Ltd.  Fuji Electric Korea Co., Ltd. ■ Okinawa Division Construction Representative Office * Having manufacturing capabilities  Beijing Rep. Office Indonesia 49 Fuji Electric Report 2019 Fuji Electric Report 2019 50 2 019 Care for the Environment Gate City Ohsaki, East Tower, 11-2, Osaki 1-chome, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 141-0032, Japan Contacts: CSR and Public Relations Dept., President’s Office TEL: +81-3-5435-7111 https://www.fujielectric.com 00A9-E-0002a Printed in Japan 2019.8
