ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018-2019 CORE VALUES OF MEDCO S.A.L. CORE VALUES OF MEDCO S.A.L. HONESTY AND EXCELLENCE INTEGRITY INNOVATION We are committed to Our business is based on We always think outside world-class customer long term relationships the box to provide the service and quality as we that require utmost trust. best solutions for our excel for the mutual We require honesty and market, first. Our best business of our integrity from everyone solutions often evolve customers, human and in everything we do. from discussions across energies and partners. different divisions and We are accountable to with our many strategic Our professionals are our customers, owners, partners. customer-driven and suppliers and fellow continually add value to employees. We do what Our innovations lead to our services whenever it we say we are going to being the First Lebanese benefits our clients. We do. We set the right tone. Petroleum Importer and are committed to working We take the right path. Distributor of the market toward excellence and We do good. We never as we have introduced continuous improvement indulge, benefit or fall many new products and in everything we do. under temptation. services to the market, first. MEDCOers MEET TO Link Communicate Update Brainstorm backgrounds Stay Share success Exchange Sustain motivated stories experience ambition Exchange Work as a Learn & Share passion points of team Innovate view Preserve Create a Reach goals Stay positive culture focus group MEDCO 2017 GOALS MEDCO 2017 GOALS 1. Reduce CO2 emissions by supplying Lebanese market with its MEDCO Propell gasoline. MEDCO Propell is an advanced formula of Unleaded Gasoline 95 and 98 Octane improved with additives that saves on consumption, cleans the engine and protects the environment. MEDCO Propell reduces consumption by up to 5%. If all Lebanon uses MEDCO Propell, we would spare our environment almost 60 thousand metric tons of CO2 which is equivalent to removing 13,000 cars off the street Benefits of Propell REDUCES FIGHTS CLEANS MAINTENANCE AGAINST ENGINE EXPENSES CORROSION PROTECTS THE SAVINGS ENVIRONMENT MEDCO 2017 GOALS 2. Medco serves its community by backing up 65 NGOs on mymedco loyalty app. Collecting points and donating them to our favorite NGO. 3. Medco promotes recycling for a cleaner planet MEDCO 2018 SDGs Sawa dod el jou3 ! MEDCO collaborated with Lebanese Food Bank for “Sawa dod el jou3” campaign by placing donation boxes in their Yala Stop c-stores. Lebanese Food Bank was able to collect 3,300,000 LBP value of products 2018: Introducing e-medco Towards an Electric Vehicle world MEDCO introduces Electric Vehicle Chargers ! MEDCO welcomes tomorrow today by installing the first EV charger in Lebanon, in January 2018 waiting for electric cars to invade the future! MEDCO took eco-friendliness to the next level and launched eMEDCO, now charging at MEDCO BCD service station (Downtown). Since the world is changing to a more environmental friendly place, the production of electric cars across the world is increasing as an initiative to reduce pollution making the electric car market the largest promising worldwide amongst all car types. Welcome Nissan, Porsche, Volvo, Audi, Mercedes, BMW, Renault, Kia, Hyundai etc. to our eco-friendly station-planet ! The future is now here, at MEDCO BCD. Go Green, Go MEDCO! E-medco station at MEDCO BCD E-medco station launching in the presence of his Excellency, Minister of Energy and Water Mr. Cesar Abi Khalil E-medco voted product of the year December 2018 MEDCO AT THE E-MOTORSHOW 2019 MEDCO was the title sponsor of the First MEDCO e-MotorShow® Middle East for Electric & Hybrid Cars that was held at the Forum De Beyrouth from April 11 till April 15 2019 under the patronage of H.E. the Minister of Environment Mr. Fady Jreissati. Many car brands were exhibiting and providing free test drives such as Audi, BMW, BYD, Chevrolet, GAC motor, Hyundai, Jaguar, Mercedes, Porsche, Renault and Volvo. The exhibition hall was divided into 3 parts 1. Exhibitors stand in which we can see all car dealers exhibiting their electric & hybrid car models and one petroleum company, MEDCO, showing several DBT EV Chargers 2. Built –in e-circuit in which people can book their free test drives and try the electric car experience noise-free” and “emissions-free” electrified vehicles 3. A tech-talk area in which local and international speakers were discussing various emobility topics. MEDCO’s Liters Plus team, held its own tech talk about Smart fleet discussing future trends and technology in fleet management. Why have a loyalty card when you can have a loyalty app ? Mymedco Loyalty app is the one and only Fuel loyalty program offered by MEDCO. Motorists earn points for every filling of any product or service and redeem them against free gasoline, car wash, oil change or buy good from the mini markets at the station. MEDCO strongly supports NGOs As Sharing is caring, you can also donate your points to an NGO of your choice through mymedco loyalty app! MEDCO aims to have friendlier communities around its stations all over Lebanon Blue Pages are a host within MEDCO my loyalty app allowing people to meet, connect and work with the next door neighbor. Blue Pages is an application that allows people to search for professionals nearby, search for services or register their profession to be part of the Blue pages community for FREE. ENERGY DAY • ENERGY DAY is a yearly teambuilding event that gathers all MEDCOers. • Energy day promotes: • Sports • Love of nature • Energy • Family spirit ENERGY DAY 2018 MEDCO aims to give the best service to its community MEDCO aims to give the best service to its community MEDCO’s commitment to the environment Weekly meetings are being held at MEDCO Innovation Center (MIC) in the presence of Medco employees representative from each department to discuss environmental topics and find sustainable solutions such as • Reducing plastic and paper consumption in offices • Recycling of plastic bags and printer toners in offices Awareness Campaign on being an eco-friendlier corporation lead to: • Yala Stop c-stores have started using environmentally friendly cutleries in the catering services • IT department have started to spread the news about toners recycling solutions • Employees have started spreading awareness about plastic consumption. Leading to decrease in the plastic consumption in departments • Tablets covers used at the stations are made from recycled Wheels Save 198 Liters of water with Call 4 Wash ! Call 4 wash by MEDCO is part of MEDCO’s green initiative. With Call 4 Wash, instead of using 200 Liters of water every time you wash your car, Call 4 Wash steam wash will save you 198 L since you only use 2 L of water. While the average car wash consumes 150 liters of water, our steam carwash technology only uses 2 liters. Thus in 2018, we were able to save 320'000 liters the equivalent of a large size pool. In our continuous efforts to be eco-friendly, we saved more than 22'000L in January 2019. Women’s day at MEDCO The women of MEDCO decided to learn how to make handbags out of plastic bags with the help of women behind “Jellyfish” concept as part of MEDCO’s green initiative. MEDCO X CCCL MEDCO participated in the Donate for Life campaign by putting boxes in all its 32 c-stores all over Lebanon in partnership worthy the Children Cancer Center of Lebanon (CCCL). 6,750,000 LBP (4,500 USD) were collected. YALA STOP X EM EL NOUR MEDCO collaborated with Em el Nour by placing donation boxes in their Yala Stop c-stores. Em el Nour was able to collect 1,750,000 LBP MEDCO X MARATHON X WOMEN’S RACE
