CoP 2018 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 1 CoP 2018 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress CoP 2018 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Yaloak South Wind Farm, Victoria Australia 2 3 It is with great pride that I bring you this of Punta Sierra’s substation was achieved. As communication on progress for 2018, and re-state Pacific Hydro’s first wind project in the country, Pacific Hydro’s commitment to uphold the Ten the successful energisation achieved the goal of Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. diversifying the energy mix of our Chile business. This document describes our actions over the past year The Punta Sierra project is located in the Coquimbo to further integrate the Global Compact and its principles Region, in the commune of Ovalle, approximately 316 into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. km north of Santiago de Chile. First monitoring of the wind resource on the site occurred in 2008. Anticipated After first making our commitment to the UN to supply approximately 280 GWh every year to Chile’s Global Compact in 2010, we have continued to main grid, the Central Interconnected System, the build on and exceed the ten principles, guided by project can send enough energy to supply approximately our vision, core values and culture statements. 170,000 Chilean homes. Its operations will abate the In a time of immense growth mired by political emission of 200,000 tons of greenhouse gases. and policy instability, we continue to maintain our position as a leading renewable energy business. Without these challenges, we wouldn’t continue to grow, and I am pleased to say that in December we secured Pacific Hydro works hard to apply our expertise and a planning decision for another major solar project resources to harness the power of the wind, water, in Victoria with our 240MWac Prairie Solar Farm. and sun to create economic, social and environmental value. In the 26 years since our founding, we have Most importantly, throughout this growth we continue achieved this through the successful development, to deliver on our commitment to protect and enhance construction, and operation of renewable energy the quality of our work; maintain the health and safety projects; and through our leading approach to sharing of our staff, contractors, and communities; continue the benefits of our work with our communities. our responsible stewardship of the environment, and perform best practice asset management. As a global renewable energy owner, operator and developer, we operate a high quality, diversified Building on the Australian business unit’s certifications portfolio with an installed capacity of 1 GW+ across in ISO 9001 Quality Management, ISO 14001 Chile, Australia, and Brazil under the ownership of Environmental Management, BS OHSAS 18001 OHS China’s State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC). Management and ISO 55001 Asset Management, in 2018 Chile and Brazil achieved ISO certification in the Despite the planet facing a magnitude of environmental, following: ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. social, economic and geopolitical issues, a very present trend is the growing number of corporate In a complex and issue-rich industry, forming and organisations moving to manage market risks maintaining harmonious relationships with local themselves, through power purchasing agreements. communities is essential to our work, and Pacific Hydro Our highly awarded Melbourne Renewable is known for pioneering best practice engagement Energy Project is a great example of this, and is in in renewables. We are proud to give back to the partnership with our retail arm, Tango energy. community-identified projects and organisations that benefit the people who neighbour our wind farms. As Tango continues to grow, it will be an enabler for Pacific Hydro to build more renewable energy Since the launch of our Community Investment Program projects, advancing the decarbonisation of the energy in 2015, Pacific Hydro has funded more than 700 sector while providing competitive and affordable projects totalling $3.15 million and in 2018 alone electricity offerings to customers large and small. we funded more than half a million dollars’ worth of projects; from facility upgrades to community gardens 2018 didn’t come without immense challenges. After to renewable energy projects like solar panels. reaching financial close on Pacific Hydro’s first solar farm in Haughton, Queensland in October, the following month Our support and promotion of the Ten Principles of our EPC contractor went into voluntary administration. the United Nations Global Compact will continue Pacific Hydro made the decision to therefore lead across the business in 2019 as we continue to the completion and commissioning of the project. take new shape within our corporate structure. I can say without a doubt that I am proud of the I am very proud of what we have accomplished teamwork, dedication and agility of my colleagues at in 2018 and it is my pleasure to present Pacific Hydro. After a short halt in works, we were able these achievements to you. CEO Message to take over coordination of the site and re-start works while also attempting to keep as many of the workers as possible, over the period of just a few weeks. Rachel Watson During mid-2018 our Chile team celebrated a CEO, Pacific Hydro Australia huge milestone that we’re all very proud of. During the evening of 8 July, successful energisation 4 5 Culture The way we work begins with our values and culture statements. These inform all aspects of how we do business. Statements 6 7 Governance As a leading global renewable energy company, Pacific Hydro is committed to maintaining the highest standards of accountability, transparency, and honesty in our work. We are proud to be a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the ten universal principles. Pacific Hydro is fully owned by State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC) through its subsidiary, State Power Investment Overseas of China (SPICOI). As a State-Owned Enterprise, SPIC is supervised by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China (SASAC). In turn, Pacific Hydro is governed by its Board, which comprises seven directors; four representing the shareholder (SPICOI); three independent directors, and our CEO. Our team As a part of State Power Investment Corporation’s overseas investment arm, we are part of a global business comprising business units in Australia, Chile, and Brazil, with an international team of almost 500 staff. We are proud of the diverse, rich experience and knowledge of our people. Our business supports individual rights; enhances well-being and positive personal growth; supports new ideas and innovation; provides modern tools and facilities; and ensures the needs and concerns of the community are a central consideration. How we work For our partners, contractors, suppliers, and communities, we seek to add value and build relationships that provide mutual benefit across environmental, social, and economic dimensions. We define our stakeholders as individuals and groups who are impacted by our activities or those who can have an impact on our future development. Due to the diverse interests of each group, which varies in each of our business units, we adapt our approach, communication channels and engagement activities to reflect the unique geographical locations of where our assets are located and where we would like to locate them. Accordingly, the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact are mirrored in our management decisions, our strategies, policies and procedures, operations, and our corporate culture. For us, it is not enough to meet our basic responsibilities, but also to exceed them wherever Our Approach possible. This is key to our ongoing success. Haughton Solar Farm, QLD Australia 8 9 A respectful approach •C  lean Energy Council Best Practice Charter for Renewable Energy Developments Pacific Hydro is committed to respecting the human rights • Flexible Working Guidelines of our employees, contractors and the broader community in accordance with international, national, and local laws, •W  histleblower Disclosure and Investigation Procedure guidelines, and requirements. Human and • Enterprise Wide Risk Management Framework We do this by: Diversity and Inclusion • Maintaining and enhancing safety, health, and labour rights wellbeing; both within and outside our company; As a global business operating in different markets, we are proud that our team represents and reflects the • Providing a company culture, working communities where we work. We value the strength in conditions, benefits, and facilities that are difference that this diversity brings to our business; and competitive, contemporary, and attractive; and have worked to create an environment where these uphold and maintain the rights of all; unique traits are valued, celebrated, and engaged. • Actively involving and empowering staff, stakeholders, We achieve and maintain this commitment with: and the community to help develop solutions and outcomes to matters that affect them; •O  ur hiring policies and procedures – ensuring we provide equity of access, and assess • Applying compliance mechanisms within our applications for employment on a merit basis risk management framework, to allow us to of qualifications, skills, and experience; identify and comply with all relevant laws, Principles 1 and 2– including those relating to human rights; •O  ur culture – ensuring we develop and maintain a corporate culture that values diversity, builds a climate • Ensuring our governance, management, of tolerance, and provides equal opportunity; policies, and procedures support, uphold, Supporting human rights and enhance human and labour rights. •R  obust grievance resolution and anti-discrimination policies – ensuring we uphold equal employment Policies opportunity and remove discrimination, and preventing abuses unconscious bias, and other barriers; Our Our Code of Conduct, values, and culture statements •C  ultural intelligence training – providing all staff provide direction on the ethical behaviours expected of with knowledge and insights about communicating our employees, management team, and Directors. and negotiating across cultural differences; As part of our Human Resources Policies and Procedures •S  trict anti-discrimination and equal employment induction, all new employees receive training in and opportunity policies, procedures, training, and refreshers are required to sign our Code of Conduct. This outlines (mandatory training session for all staff once a year); Principles 3, 4, 5, and 6– our approach and responsibilities to stakeholders, and guides employees and contractors on the standards • In-house advertisement of vacant positions we expect to be upheld and applied in our work. and support for staff to undertake professional Preserving labour rights development to transition to new skill We are also proud of our inclusive and diverse areas and diversify their experience; company culture, and have taken steps to strengthen this through a comprehensive Inclusion and Diversity •A  ccommodations for all religious and equal employment Strategy. Equal employment opportunity and observance and practices. antidiscrimination are also specifically addressed in our Code of Conduct and Equal Opportunity Policy. opportunities Our policies are tailored to meet the legal, regulatory, and customary requirements of each jurisdiction we operate in, while also upholding our values, culture statements, and objectives. Australia based policies include: • Employee Code of Conduct • Equal Opportunity Policy • Health Safety and Environment Policy • Sustainability Policy •C ommunity Charter, Engagement Framework and Investment Guidelines 10 11 Female Leaders The success of these measures is clearly indicated by the diverse nationalities, genders, and other characteristics represented in our workforce. In 2018 our Senior Leadership Team comprised a 50/50 split between men and women; and over 40% of our staff identifying as women. Pacific Hydro staff representing International Women’s Day 8 March Our Reconciliation Action Plan Pacific Hydro is committed to working toward meaningful recognition of and engagement with the traditional owners of the lands on which we work, and is currently developing a reconciliation action plan (Australia) to further enshrine this goal. Pacific Hydro Chile celebrates cultural diversity for World Day At a practical level, this includes ensuring the preservation of cultural heritage at our project sites through staff training, assessment, and ongoing World Day Training and Development management in accordance with Cultural Heritage The Chile business unit celebrated cultural diversity Pacific Hydro offers a broad selection of internal and Management Plans (CHMPs) developed in consultation digesting it! During World Day in 2018 we hosted a safari external training and development opportunities to with the RAP; and ensuring wider staff and contractor of traditional foods from our culturally diverse colleagues. all staff. Relevant health and safety training is also awareness of indigenous culture and history. Emphasising the richness of the team’s cultural heritage, provided to site and office-based employees and A Pacific Hydro Wind Farm Manager participates in the smoking lunch was followed by an exhibition demonstrating the contractors, to ensure our staff are equipped with ceremony major characteristics of each represented country or city. the knowledge required to perform their job safely. Pacific Hydro’s team includes representation from over 40 countries and ethnic backgrounds. During the celebration, the SPIC team also took the All staff undergo a comprehensive induction opportunity to share the cultural contrasts with China process that covers the training on nonthrough its history and its present day modernisation. discrimination policies and procedures. Contemporary Working Internships and Work Experience Flexible Working Guidelines in Australia, Brazil and We strongly believe that the exchange of professionals Chile allow all employees to acieve a balance between enriches our work and also our company. That is why we managing their personal circumstances and ensuring encourage our professionals to undertake internships individual, team and business objectives are met. or apply for positions in different business units, in Our workplace is family friendly and we encourage order to expand their knowledge and networks. employees to balance family commitments with During 2018, three professionals from our business work responsibilities. Our Parental Leave Policy unit in Chile moved to Australia to contribute their extends beyond statutory requirements relating knowledge and work. In Australia we also partner to parental leave rights in Chile and Australia. with Deakin University to take on student interns. 12 13 Safety ISO Certifications Health and Wellbeing In Chile, Pacific Hydro also began a cultural change through a Transformation Plan, Central to the way we work is our commitment to Building on the Australian business unit’s certifications We believe that providing a safe place to work is about which is defined by six strategic pillars: maintaining safety. We do this with a company-wide in ISO 9001 Quality Management, ISO 14001 more than just providing an environment free from • Review and Restructuring of Pacific Hydro Chile (PHC) focus on HSE and comprehensive safety practices, Environmental Management, BS OHSAS 18001 OHS hazards or potential causes of injury. We recognise the which are embedded into our working culture. Management and ISO 55001 Asset Management, importance of maintaining the health and wellbeing of • Work culture transformation in 2018 Chile and Brazil were able to achieve our staff both within and outside the office. While our • Cost efficiency This is underwritten by a focus on safety at the ISO certification in the following certifications: robust safety practices are in place to prevent physical highest level of our leadership, with regular safety ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. injuries, our additional initiatives in Australia include: • Compliance and accountability walks completed by each senior executive. • Operational Excellence • Free influenza vaccinations each year The successful achievement of these certifications In 2018, the operational business within Australia provides external validation that our processes, • Free fruit delivered each day • Clarity of objectives had a remarkable Lost Time Injury (LTI) free procedures, and policies are fit for purpose Prior to the implementation of the Transformation • Staff trained in Mental Health first aid year, along with 31 Leadership Walks. and effective in maintaining safety. Plan, PHC was organised under the traditional • Health resources, seminars, and events vertically integrated structure and functions were Across the business, individual employees are encouraged Contractors and Suppliers •O ur Employee Assistance Program (free, grouped by discipline. In 2018 the Chilean business to live their safety values through Pacific Hydro’s Safety confidential, external counselling for unit was modified to a matrix structure, in order Conversations initiative. In Australia alone in 2018, the Pacific Hydro has clear policies and procedures in employees and their immediate families) to facilitate achievement of these key pillars. business unit completed 7,315 safety conversations. place to ensure that our values, culture statements, and ways of working are reflected by our contractors •A Wellbeing Working Group that organises Saefty conversations allow employees to record the regular events surrounding mental health, and suppliers. This includes monitoring of the supply details of safety conversations and activities they fitness, disability and health chain to ensure that reputable partners are used undertake, both inside and out of the workplace; and to and our requirements are being met; and that local •M onthly Friday Afternoon Delights (culturally themed complete short safety checklists covering different work economic benefits are achieved wherever practicable catering to encourage staff to socialise and wind down) tasks with an element of risk, such as vehicle pre-start (through the use of local labour and suppliers). checklists and ergonomic assessments for workspaces. We work to raise awareness and promote a positive From office catering, to wind turbine manufacturers, and equitable workplace for employees. Safety conversations are now evolving into contractors wishing to supply to us may be In Brazil, the business unit developed and ‘Action’ based tasks to empower employees subject to preselection screening undertaken; implemented a Health and Quality of Life Program to not just identify but resolve issues. which includes a requirement to disclose detailed that focuses on the prevention of stress and information about their supply chain, procurement disease through the adoption of healthier habits Throughout 2018, Pacific Hydro worked extensively to practices, policies, and procedures. such as sports, food and mental healthcare. maintain safety amongst contractors and suppliers by specifying our detailed health, safety and environmental In the Natal and São Paulo offices, employees requirements in our contracts; ensuring these are defined undertook a series of actions focused on health, In 2018 our business moved into new offices in as deliverables; and engaging construction, project, and sports and leisure that were managed by the Health, Chile in both Santiago and Coya, aligning itself contract management staff to ensure these requirements Safety and Environment and Human Resources to the new structure designed for Pacific Hydro are being met by all contractors and sub-contractors. teams which evaluated the program. Among the and introducing agile working and spaces that actions within this initiative, the following stand out: further support our flexible approaches to work. The teams also work to maintain safety in the • Gymnastics; communities where we operate with a comprehensive Further Benefits complaints management process; and by ensuring all of • Sports consultancy; the initiatives supported by our Community Investment A range of further benefits are provided to Pacific • Participation in a race; Program are assessed for safety considerations, Hydro staff to ensure that the international workplace and recommendations made as applicable. As a • Lectures related to health and well-being; is an attractive and enjoyable place to work. This member of the community, Pacific Hydro strives for includes regular social activities, free fresh fruit each •P artnership with a global provider of men’s best possible outcomes in response to enquiries, day, and regular events, seminars, and celebrations. health support, which provides psychological, complaints and feedback from our stakeholders. financial and legal support to employees. In order to encourage even more safer behaviour and to continue without accidents that lead to absence from work, the Brazilian business unit launched a Work Safety Campaign, sending messages to employees via e-mail, sharing visual aids such as posters and publishing a trilingual booklet (Portuguese / Mandarin / English). 14 15 Benefit Sharing and Community Support In Our Communities Community Investment Program in Australia As a leading renewable energy developer, Pacific Hydro Pacific Hydro aims to establish and maintain respectful, is committed to supporting the communities that host inclusive and collaborative relationships with the Our Community Investment Program is the key our clean energy projects with positive and lasting social, communities in which it operates or seeks to operate in. part of Pacific Hydro’s community investment and environmental and economic benefits. Pacific Hydro We recognise and respect the rights, local laws, customs support strategy. The Program delivers a portion of shares the benefits of its presence in local communities by and cultures of the people living in these communities. revenue back into our local communities each year. forming partnerships and bringing local groups together By applying our policies and procedures through the Since its launch in 2005, the Community Investment to broaden awareness of how communities can maximise entire lifecycle of our projects, we work with local Program has funded more than 700 projects totalling the potential benefits of our sustainable projects. communities to identify and mitigate any potential $3.15 million and in 2018 alone we funded over impacts (social, cultural, health, safety, environmental) $470,000 worth of projects, from facility upgrades that may result from our activities. We also believe that to community gardens to renewable energy our work in this area must continue to evolve to ensure projects like solar panels on community halls. we are meeting or exceeding community expectations. At its core, the Program aims to empower local In Australia, being the first in our industry to launch communities to identify the initiatives and projects a Community Investment Program back in 2005, we that Pacific Hydro should support. A range of recognise that community support is as critical to methods are used to meet this aim, tailored to project success as technical and financial factors. the specific needs of each locality. This includes In a complex and issue-rich industry, forming and community funds, sponsorships, and direct support maintaining harmonious relationships with local initiatives in Australia, Chile, and Brazil. communities is essential to our work. This is why we continue to develop, maintain and continually improve We are proud to give back to the communityour relationships and support for our projects. identified projects and organisations that benefit the people who neighbour our wind farms. Our Purpose, Vision, Values and Culture Statements guide the interactions we have with all stakeholders, Economic Benefits including local communities, and we recognise and respect people’s rights, local laws, customs and cultures. In addition to our Community Investment Program, Pacific We aim to develop mutual trust and respect within our Hydro’s development, construction, and operation of host communities through adopting appropriate levels renewable energy projects bring significant economic of transparent, open engagement and communication and social benefits to regional and rural areas, particularly at all stages of our projects. We are committed to during construction. Where practicable we encourage delivering respectful, positive and lasting social, our suppliers and contractors to use local capabilities, environmental and economic benefits to our host businesses, and labourers; and have partnered with local communities by supporting community initiatives and governments and authorities to promote our projects seeking mutually agreed solutions to potential issues. and the associated local economic opportunities. Pacific Hydro is known for pioneering best practice engagement in renewables and employs the International Association of Public Participation (IAP2) Framework to ensure a consistent approach to community engagement across the company; and in line with its guidance, develops bespoke Community Engagement Strategies that shape how we achieve this and work with all of our stakeholders. In 2018 we continued to evolve and implement several improvements to our engagement and consultation approach. Our Community Investment Guidelines were also reviewed and refreshed to reflect contemporary expectations and demonstrate our commitment to continuous improvement. Sustainable Communities Fund recipients in Brazil 16 17 Empowering local communities Chile’s Creciendo Juntos Community Fund In 2017, Pacific Hydro reached out to Portland District Health (PDH) hospital in response to a front page 2018 marked the twelfth year of the Creciendo Juntos news item, which spoke of spiralling energy costs and community fund in the Alto Cachapoal Valley. We have pledged $40,000 towards rooftop solar equipment. funded over 100 projects in this region, of which have Following this engagement, in 2018 Pacific Hydro granted us the opportunity to better understand the empowered the local community to decide (by communities – their behaviours, desires and struggles. majority vote) whether to use a portion of the During 2018, eighteen projects were selected for funding Portland Sustainable Communities Fund ($140,000) in the categories of Social Undertakings, Training, to expand the PDH initiative. This resulted in Tourism, Environment, Infrastructure and Equipment. a decision to contribute an additional $70,000 (50% of the Portland SCF) to the project. Salome Silva, President of Chacayes’s Artisan Workshop Recipients of the 2018 Creciendo Juntos Community Fund finds the program incredibly important for the region. Portland District Health receiving a cheque for $110,000 The donation will save the hospital an estimated $84,000 “Creciendo Juntos is very important for us because per year in energy costs, which will be re-directed to it gives us wings to continue much valuable work.” the services PDH provides to the broader community Neighbours from Mantos de Hornillos Wind Farm Open Day 2018 light their first Christmas Tree In order to celebrate our donation to Portland District Seventy families from Mantos de Hornillos in Chile had Health, and to celebrate the recipients of the Portland a very special Christmas in 2018. For the first time (and Great South West communities) Sustainable they could light their tree using electricity from the Communities Fund, Pacific Hydro Australia hosted a National Electric System (Sistema Electrico Nacional). community event on Wind Farm Open Day in October. Packed with presentations and a nature tour that included The town’s electricity was made possible by educational about indigenous food, the event was held at a combined effort from Coquimbo’s Regional Picnic Hill Memorial Reserve in Portland – a site that we Government and Pacific Hydro, among others. support through the work of the local Landcare group. Pacific Hydro paid for the electrical installation of The event also welcomed the State Minister for the homes as part of the implementation of the Energy, Environment and Climate Change, Lily Punta Sierra Community Development Plan. D’Ambrosio, who spoke about the environment, community and employment benefits of renewable energy projects in Victoria. Pacific Hydro staff lighting up a Christmas tree Recipients of the 2018 Great South West Sustainable Communities Fund 18 19 Brazil’s Sustainable Communities Fund Since 2014, the Sustainable Communities Fund program in Brazil has supported initiatives that contribute to the growth of local economies. One of them is the “More Learning” project, which benefits Environment 25 children from the Barra do Camaratuba School, in the municipality of Mataraca, where we operate the Millennium and Vale dos Ventos wind farms. In addition to hiring and reimbursing teachers for tutoring classes, we provide study materials and snacks for students through the program, providing them with conditions to achieve better performance. Barra do Camaratuba School children in the More Learning project Through the Fund in Brazil we have developed a program to support women’s autonomy, which contributes to the economic and political empowerment of women in the community of Barra do Camaratuba, in Mataraca. As a direct result of the activities developed in 2018, the group “Women’s Hands That Make” was created, formed Principles 7, 8, and 9– by artisans and cooks living in Barra de Camaratuba. Addressing environmental Women’s Hands That Make workshop challenges, promoting responsibility, and furthering the use of new technologies 20 21 Our Core Mission For Government Pacific Hydro is proud to be a leader in 2018 was a rollercoaster ride for politics in Australia. the clean energy industry and a pioneer in The country witnessed the change of its fourth Prime the deployment of new renewable energy Minister in six years. Despite this further setback to technologies in Australia, Chile and Brazil. energy policy in the country, we continued on to power on with our unique power purchase agreement through Our core business activity is the commercialisation and the Melbourne Renewable Energy Project (MREP). expansion of these renewable energy technologies to address climate change, which is the most In 2018 MREP was recognised by CitySwitch with both pressing environmental challenge of our time. a Victorian and a National award. The goal of CitySwitch is to help office-based businesses across Australia Australia’s renewable energy industry continues reduce energy costs, work towards a carbon positive to face significant challenges under the current future, reduce waste, and improve employee health. The government. Since 2012, the energy policy vacuum annual CitySwitch awards recognise groups that have has impacted the sector from the investment pipeline demonstrated outstanding environmental leadership. to the stalling of projects due to investor confidence, but more importantly to time lost upgrading our grid. Chief Financial Officer Rob Spurr accepted the National CitySwitch Partnership of the Year award on behalf of Pacific Hydro is proud to be part of a revolutionary Pacific Hydro and MREP partners at the awards ceremony era where renewable energy continues to grow in Sydney. “It’s a great day when we can celebrate and evolve, despite a lack of energy policy the fact that the collective buying power of a diverse certainty, to undeniably lower the costs on the group of local governments, cultural institutions, environment as well as to the consumer. universities and companies can be the catalyst for In 2018, our retail arm, Tango established its position as the construction of a new wind farm,” he said. the most affordable energy retailer for South Australian Movement at the (sub)station Punta Sierra energised MREP also took home the Premier’s Sustainability and Victorian customers. When Tango grows, our capacity Award in the Government category in the same year. to build more renewable projects grows too – helping to advance the decarbonisation of the electricity sector. The annual awards program managed by the Victorian Government recognises individuals, We maintain excellent management of the environment communities, organisations, and businesses that through all stages of our projects and business operations, particularly during construction. are leading the way to a sustainable future. A Milestone: Punta Sierra Wind Farm A high point of the ceremony included the traditional cutting of the tape headed by Minister Jimenez, The project was recognised for its ability to enable Renzo Valentino, and SPIC Vice President Yi Jiang, We are proud to have achieved meaningful In August 2018, the wind blew with more force cities, corporations and institutions to take an active accompanied by the unveiling of a commemorative progress in these areas in 2018. and was ever present as we celebrated the role in securing a renewable electricity supply, and to inaugural plaque, during which the local Ovalle’s Youth energisation of our first wind farm in Chile. take action on climate change into their own hands. Orchestra played three pieces relating to nature. The event, which included Chile’s Minister of Energy, When we inaugurated our first wind farm in Chile, The project is anticipated to supply approximately Susana Jimenez, and the Minister of Economic Affairs, Punta Sierra in 2018, the ceremony was attended 280 GWh every year to Chile’s main grid, the Central Jose Ramon Valente, was noteworthy for its cheer of by two Ministers of State, SPIC executives and Interconnected System. This is enough energy to supply more than 280 guests, among who were the authorities, numerous local and national authorities. approximately 170,000 Chilean homes. Its operations will workers, industry executives, and members of the Above all, Pacific Hydro has established a reputation Mantos de Hornillos and Caleta Sierra communities. abate the emission of 200,000 tons of greenhouse gases. as a trusted advisor and experienced contributor to Our General Manager Chile, Renzo Valentino the development of energy and environment policy remarked, “We are happy to inaugurate our first in the markets where it operates. We are regularly wind farm, a milestone that not only marks invited to contribute by governments at all levels. the diversification of our business portfolio, Pacific Hydro also reports under the National Greenhouse but is also the first step towards developing and Energy Reporting (NGER) framework in Australia. other projects together with SPIC.” Our CFO receiving the National CitySwitch Partnership of the Year Award for the Melbourne Renewable Energy Project 22 23 In Our Industry Safer Sailing in Portland Harbour Crowlands Hall Solar Installation We regularly participate in industry-wide collaborative As part of Pacific Hydro’s 2018 Great South West Community halls are vital to regional towns, and efforts to share information through conferences, Sustainable Communities Fund, we supported Portland Crowlands Hall near our Crowlands wind farm is working groups, directorates, and peak industry Yacht Club’s project to purchase a safety boat and an important resource for the region, serving local bodies and councils with the aim of furthering trailer. The new safety boat allows qualified skippers community members and tourists. The space is used development of renewable energy in Australia. to give on water instruction to sailors and quickly by local clubs and organisations, as well as an event Pacific Hydro is a member of the Clean Energy retrieve swimmers in the event of any mishaps. space for weddings and other social events. Council and the Smart Energy Council. Because of this, we committed to powering the hall with Each year, the club runs “Tackers programs” which allow We have also demonstrated technical excellence rooftop solar panels using a 6kw smart hybrid rooftop local children to experience sailing. Portland’s sheltered and continue to make informed contributions to solar system. The set up will also include 7kw battery harbour is the perfect place to learn to sail and with the the public debate about the decarbonisation of the storage and will be installed by a local supplier as part purchase of the new safety boat, the club can continue electricity system and the technical integration of of our commitment to sharing the benefits of renewable to teach valuable sailing skills and water safety. renewable energy into existing power systems. energy beyond the boundaries of our projects. Crowlands Hall rooftop solar installation As SPIC Brazil, we have a partnership with Gudjuda Reference Group Aboriginal Melbourne Office Walks the Talk for research centre, Instituto Acende Brasil and we are part of a group of companies which Corporation National Tree Day support the Sustainable Energy Project. In 2018 we announced that over the life of the On Sunday 29 July 2018 we celebrated National Pacific Hydro Chile has partnerships with organisations Haughton Solar Farm, Pacific Hydro will invest Tree Day by making the move to purchasing that promote sustainable development, such as more than $2.5m in sustainable community projects more sustainable paper for our office use. renewable energy association, ACERA, among others. that will benefit the communities of Brandon, Giru, It was brought to our attention that the current supplier Clare, Millaroo, Dalbeg, Ayr and Home Hill. uses woodchips from Victoria’s precious native Mountain In our communities As a demonstration of our commitment to the Ash forests. These forests are important for all of Victoria Portland Yacht Club members with their new safety boat local community and to Traditional Owners, as they supply Greater Melbourne with 98% of its water Pacific Hydro provides further support for the Pacific Hydro partnered with Gudjuda Reference supply. They provide carbon storage and provide a strong environment beyond our core business of renewable Buy A Bale Drought Relief tourism industry for all of Victoria. Species, such as energy development and operation, through Group, Queensland Government’s Department of As we face longer periods of extreme weather and Environment and Heritage Protection, World Wildlife Victoria’s faunal emblem the Leadbeater’s Possum, the supporting community-led environmental initiatives. temperatures, we are cognisant of the wellbeing Fund and James Cook University to help deliver a Sooty Owl, Greater Gliders, and many more creatures call Many of the projects supported through our Community sea turtle rescue program. Over the life of the new these forests home but are on the brink of extinction. of our project neighbours. 2018 saw an extensive Investment Program provide direct benefits to solar farm, Pacific Hydro Australia will continue to period of drought strike all of New South Wales, By rejecting that brand and other brands that use the environment, particularly in local areas. support this important conservation program. affecting the farmers near our Taralga Wind Farm. native forest timber, we committed to making a Through the drought relief campaign, ‘Buy a strong statement that our old growth forests are Bale’, we made a $10,000 donation to purchase too important to be logged for woodchips. We now hay to feed farmers’ drought-affected stock. order 100% Recycled Carbon Neutral paper. This inspiring and ongoing community campaign is run by Rural Aid Ltd, who uses money donated by the general public to purchase and deliver stockfeed and other items to farmers affected by drought across the country. Gudjuda Reference Group and their sea turtle rescue boat (above) Celebrating our sponsorship of Sweet Days Hot Nights (right) Sweet Days Hot Nights We have also partnered with Burdekin Shire Council’s Sweet Days, Hot Nights festival to preserve and encourage the cultural activity of hand cane cutting. The First Fire and Australian Hand Cane Cutting Championships are highlights of the festival that showcases the Burdekin’s many attractions and seeks to revitalise the region’s brand as a holiday and experience destination. 24 25 Chile Celebrated Tree Day with Alto Powering a Cleaner World Lollapalooza’s Footprint Planting at Brazil’s Vale dos Ventos and Cachapoal Schools Millennium Wind Farms Our Chacayes hydro plant in Chile is registered Lollapalooza in Santiago is the most important festival Tree Day, or Tree Party, is a reminder of the importance under the UNFCCC and can trade Certified of the year and Pacific Hydro mitigated its carbon With the objective of the expanding plant cover to protect wooded areas and forests. The official Emission Reductions (CERs) globally. footprint for the 5th consecutive year. This means that and consequently the minimisation of greenhouse celebration was on 28 June in Chile. The Chilean Lollapalooza and all its side shows were “carbon neutral”. gases (GHG), in 2018 we planted 500 seedlings Carbon Neutral Now is a platform designed by the Environmental and Corporate Affairs teams also of native species in the internal areas of Vale United Nations for carbon footprint compensation. As with the past editions of the festival, a group chose this date for an activity with the children dos Ventos wind farm, in Mataraca. of pollsters retrieve the necessary information to from three schools in the Alto Cachapoal Valley. After joining the UNFCCC platform, Chacayes runcalculate the carbon footprint. They ask details The areas for planting were determined taking of-river hydro power plant became one of 3 projects such as the means of transportation used to get to These trees were grown in greenhouses from seeds into account less dense areas close to the forest, in Chile and one of the 13 projects in Latin America Lollapalooza or the area the people come from plus that our company collected. These distinct types of trees in order to provide protection and conditions for and the Caribbean authorized to sell bonds to the emissions generated by the production of the and native bushes have permitted the reforestation and the development of the seedlings. The vegetation natural persons, in order to mitigate their impacts. festival itself which is also part of the measurement. re-vegetation of distinct areas used in our projects and cover was made with species originating from protects and conserves native trees from the zone. the Atlantic Forest biome of Paraíba, as a way to During 2018, people around the globe contribute to the development of the local flora. compensated more than a thousand tons of During the activity we gave 5 Guillaye trees CO2 from Chacayes carbon credits. We rescued an eagle which flew again to San Lorenzo, Bellavista and Chacayes over the Alto Cachapoal Valley The Mora Eagle schools with the objective that each educational In a huge effort to take concrete actions against climate community plants them in their school yards. The Mora Eagle is a beautiful South American bird change, PHC calculated the carbon footprint 2018 of It was a matter of seconds for a young Mora Eagle Direct GHG emissions*. Total emissions are 1.263 TCo2* of prey present from Venezuela to Tierra del Fuego We believe it is important to make public the initiatives (Geranoaetus melanolucus) to return to the skies between cordillera and coast. It has wide wings and a that are being undertaken in the zone and the care again in the Alto Cachapoal Valley. After four months *(*these occur from sources that are owned or short tail and its feathers are different shades of grey. of native vegetation is one of these initiatives. of rehabilitation, the bird was returned into its controlled by the company, for example emissions from habitat through a process that was possible thanks combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, It is a hunter whose diet consists of hares, birds, to coordination by Safari Park, Pacific Hydro, and vehicles, etc. or emissions from chemical production snakes, and carrion. It reaches a maximum length SAG (The Agricultural and Livestock Service). in owned or controlled process equipment). of 76 cm and weighs up to 2 kilos. It likes to take advantage of the wind currents when it flies “Our team at Coya power plant found an injured and can be observed flying in wide circles. eagle beside one of the canals. We activated our protocol for these cases and contacted SAG and Eagles are solitary and monogamous. They build Safari Park for its rescue and transfer. We are their nests in tree canopies, cacti cavities or shelters very happy to have reached the point where the in rocky walls where they lay one to three eggs. eagle has recovered because moments like this remind us of the value of nature and wildlife,” The Mora eagle is protected from hunting by the Ley de said Zandra Monreal, Environmental Manager. Caza (Hunting Law) and hunting or capturing it is illegal. Chacayes Hydro Plant in Chile (below) Celebrating Tree Party in the Alto Cachapoal Valley, Chile (left) 26 27 Pacific Hydro has dedicated significant effort to ensure Further, the Delegation of Authority policy that our operations accord with the highest regulatory and provides additional robustness to our professional standards in every aspect. We are honest, financial governance arrangements. transparent, and clear in our dealings with governments, regulators, stakeholders, and the community; and take Staff are trained in our policies and procedures an active role in preventing bribery and corruption. using a range of innovative training methods, Anti-corruption including digital learning tools to ensure they Our policies and procedures set out the intention of are aware of our obligations and objectives. our approach, and how we expect our management, staff, and contractors to conduct themselves. These Our tendering processes, terms of trade, and are integral to our management of risk and compliance contract management are all designed to accord with the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate. with the requirements of our multiple relevant jurisdictions to prevent bribery and corruption. With a state-owned parent company and operations in multiple jurisdictions, Pacific Hydro Our Whistleblowing Policy and associated has undertaken extensive work to ensure that procedures also provide a process for staff to we accord with many layers of oversight and the report breaches of these policies and procedures regulatory frameworks that apply in each. confidentially and/or anonymously. As a member company of State Power Investment In 2018, our business units in Brazil and Chile also Corporation, Pacific Hydro is subject to the reporting and achieved IS0 9001 certification, which included monitoring obligations of the wider group, which includes section 8.4 – Control of externally provided Principle 10– compliance with the requirements of the State-owned processes, products, and services which provided Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the independent verification of our approach. State Council of the People’s Republic of China (SASAC). Chilean Legal Team Awarded Working against all Pacific Hydro has also undertaken extensive work in the area of harmonising our Finance and The Chilean legal team was recognised by governance systems and practices across all of our the prestigious British publication “Legal 500” forms of corruption business units, and to ensure simpler reporting to as one of the most outstanding legal teams our shareholder. This has included significant work in the area of energy in the country. to implement SAP across all business units and harmonised work procedures for procurement. + Energy Plan: the Minister of Energy recognizes Corporate For our Brazilian operations we are associated with the Ethos Institute, which focuses on promoting Affairs Team as an example of good ethics and transparency, indispensable concepts for practices between companies and economic development, acting on fronts such as the communities in Chacayes. Business Pact for Integrity and the Fight against Corruption; Integrity Working Group; the National Plan The Chilean Minister for Energy, via the Department for Integrity, Transparency and Fighting Corruption and of Participation and Social Dialogue, commended the Business Movement for Integrity and Transparency. Pacific Hydro for its outstanding work in community development in its + Energy Plan. Aiming to improve the actions related to the Group’s Compliance, a Group Risk and The plan seeks to strengthen, monitor and aid Chilean Compliance department is scheduled to be set and foreign energy companies in all stages of project up for 2019, with the consequent revision and/ development, promoting good practices in the chain or creation of all policies related to the subject. of values and early engagement with communities. 28 29 CoP 2018 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Australia Level 13, 700 Collins Street Docklands Victoria 3008 Australia Telephone +61 3 8621 6000 Facsimile +61 3 8621 6111 CoP Brazil Av. Presidente Juscelino Kubitscheck, 1909 – Torre Norte – 27º andar 2018 Vila Nova Conceição, São Paulo – SP CEP 04543-907 Telephone +55 11 3149 4646 Chile Edificio Mapfre, Av. Isidora Goyenechea 3520, Piso 9 Las Condes, Santiago, Chile Telephone +56 2 2519 4200 UN Global Compact Facsimile +56 2 2519 4240 Communication on Progress www.pacifichydro.com 30
