Communication on Progress (COP) Year 2019 to 2020 1|Page Table of Content Page Statement of Continued Support 3 Human Rights 4 Labour 6 Environment 10 Anti-Corruption 13 Measurement of Outcomes 18 About Us 21 2|Page UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Statement of Continued Support [7th July, 2019.] To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Premium Times Services Limited online publishers of Premium Times, reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, [Dapo Olorunyomi] [Musikilu Mojeed] [Publisher] [Editor-in-Chief] 3|Page HUMAN RIGHTS Premium Times Services Limited has and will continuously promote a right to life, liberty and personal security and ensure the safety of staff members. We have implemented additional security measures complementing previously instituted ones; the use of a control system to further ensure safety of our staff members within the work environment has been quite helpful. Staff members are constantly encouraged to move in groups during off–office hours for personal safety checks. This advice also applies were reporters are covering protests. Protest Covered by a Premium Times Reporter As a news/publication establishment, we are charged with the responsibility to foster the physical and psychological wellbeing of our staff members. In respect of this, we have adopted a software application tasked with the purpose of reporting updates of news sources/clients in contact with our staff members linked with a data base designed for this purpose. 4|Page Where appropriate, we communicate with security operatives and relevant authorities to report any form of harassment/crime that may affect the fundamental rights of our staff members. As a result of Premium Times’s great concern for staff wellbeing and the organizational consciousness, that the work environment has a significant impact on the mental health, staff are encouraged to engage in mental health and psycho-social support group meetings made available by our not-for-profit arm; Premium Times Center for Investigative Journalism (PTCIJ). Here discussions on challenges on/off the job and how it affects psycho-social health of staff are addressed. Support System for Female Staff We employed the services of a psychology expert, saddled with the responsibility of providing psychological support and counselling for Premium Times staff. This has helped to build team spirit and boost the morale of staff in our organization. 5|Page LABOUR Premium Times management maintains our stand on zero tolerance to forced labour of any form. Child labour is non-existent in our organisation. We continually reflect the freedom of association, equal rights and we do not discriminate in any form. We encourage ethical standards and practices which enables staff members to make good choices by introducing best practices fit for their environment. Staff from the Digital Strategy Team We encourage work flexibility for staff members, who are encouraged to work from the comfort of their homes when the need arise. This in turn leads to higher productivity level of the organisation, as they are determined to maintain the vision of the organisation. Premium Times is a people oriented organisation and staff concerns are a major priority. Premium Times has an established employee education program, internal communication network and campaigns, and established channels for reporting potentially discriminatory practices and harassment. These provide a safe and open environment for issues that relate to job dissatisfaction, which are adequately addressed. 6|Page Overview of an Event Covered by Premium Times Team We are aware of the GDP in our economy and have maintained our stand to continually exceed the current minimum wage in Nigeria. Also, staff are encouraged to be intrepreneurs having ventures that will augment their financial capabilities. Staff members have unanimously and voluntarily proposed to form a cooperative. Membership is voluntarily and access would be given to the public for membership. Premium Times supports the staff on this decision and would aid in the actualization of this endeavor. We hope to update you on its successful implementation. To foster increased productivity, career growth and development in the sector and amongst staff, Premium Times is involved with a training academy, to aid in trainings of staff members in various aspects of Journalism. This would help meet the demand in the need to infuse the principles of good journalism into the society. 7|Page Journalist Training Slide We also adopted a method of appraisal for our company, this will leaves opportunity for staff to evaluate self, subordinates, peers, supervisors. External evaluation of employee with client and stakeholders is also employed; individuals who can give provide valuable insights and information teamwork, character, and leadership effectiveness of staff and the organisation. Overall, mentorship is encouraged, and supervisors follow up on duties and tasks using a mentorship process. With our current preference towards addressing the gender gap, there is an intentional inclusion of female applicants who have met the employment requirements. Premium Times recently employed a female to head the Business and Partnership Department of the organisation, she is also a member of the management board of the organisation. Furthermore, female staff members are encouraged to aspire to climb up the corporate ladder, we have organized leadership programs geared towards preparing women for leadership roles and ultimately contributing to gender mainstreaming. The active participation of female staff members in organized leadership programs, has instilled the need to promote a female staff member to head the human resources department of the 8|Page organisation to show the support and the intentional inclusion of women in the workforce. In this regard, we partner with organisations across the globe to ensure we have best practices. Visit by One of Our Partner Organisation We still continue to fashion out models to increase women active involvement not just to bridge the gap for employment but for economic and social strata growth. We encourage a highly motivated workforce and imbibe an enabling environment for personal growth and development. We also offer our female staff scholarships for a higher education. This encourages a conscious awareness of self-help and the need for promising aspiration for greater opportunities. Staff are guaranteed a possible change of position upon completion with a view of encouraging the willingness to learn and aspire higher. 9|Page ENVIRONMENT In other to incorporate a greener work place environment, we have implemented an environmental policy and procedure. Staff members are educated on the need to go greener in our environment. Gradually, we have infused green indoors/ indoor practices by upgrading our office décor with the use of plants placed at strategic work space for cleaner air and creating a conducive working environment. Outdoor Area of Premium Times Premises An approach to recycling by encouraging the use of re-useable water bottles and mugs as against the use of disposable cups; one of the ways we employ environmentally friendly technologies is by conserving energy utilization in the work environment which includes the regulation of the use of cooling appliances. We encourage the use of fan against air conditioners determined by the weather condition and discourage the use of both at the same time. Other ways we employ more environmentally technologies is the use of an applications designed to facilitate telecommuting. Staff members are allowed to work from home and do not require physical presence. 10 | P a g e One of our initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility is the adoption of the practice of printing when necessary, the re-use of paper by printing on both sides to reduce paper wastage is encouraged. This is in the addition to virtual options, which encourages electronic mailing and use of e–signatures without having to print on paper. Premium Times continuously supports health and environmental reports that enlighten the populace on healthy measures and practices. Report on Healthy Rice Paddy Cultivation, Jega Premium Times is the leading online news platform in Nigeria. Our business model maintains 90% of our products as primarily online (www), we have no need to dispose products during production/manufacturing. This adoptive model has positioned Premium Times as a role model for other industries to emulate; the use of non-manufacturing plants to avoid adverse increase in climate change and create a good/healthy environment. 11 | P a g e River Osun snakes besides Kolawole Rotimi's farm at Ijero-Ekiti 12 | P a g e ANTI CORRUPTION Premium Times has maintained its stand for being the 4th arm of government, with no political affiliation and propagates the dissemination of truth, with candor. We have maintained our pool of passionate professionals and reporters who are working dedicatedly to the emergence of a truly democratic society imbued with the values of accountability, justice, integrity and respect for human rights which remains the vision of our company. Integrity Handshake We will continue to instill the values which form the foundation of our company, in our employees as we continue to remain on the frontiers in the fight against corruption in Nigeria. This is embedded in our CITA code, which form the ethical foundation on which we thrive. o Credibility o Integrity o Transparency o Accountability We have a policy that ensures the effective and consistent management of gifts/favours offered to employees during the course of duty. 13 | P a g e Training Slide on Ethics and Security While staff and management engage in ethical practice and encouraging behaviors that will sustain trust and integrity within and outside the scope of operations. Corrective measures are in place for employees found to be influenced and bias in the dissemination of our editorial values. 1. Premium Times Magazine: This is a publication takes a deep dive into the gains, milestones, errors and lessons of the first two decades of the Fourth Republic. We believe that it will spur especially the Nigerian readers to reflect and recommit to building a genuinely democratic nation for the benefit of present and future generations. 14 | P a g e Cover of Publication To access this publication, kindly click the link below. https://www.premiumtimesng.com/store/20-Years-of-Patchy-Democracy-Premium-TimesSpecial-Digital-Version-p141263773 2. The 2019 general elections: Premium Times reportage of elections, helped provide timely, certified results from polling units to citizens and there by deepening the democratic drive of Nigeria. Our constant live updates reached millions of interested parties across the world, who were able to monitor how the elections were holding in real time. The numerous irregularities reported during the 2019 elections, were highlighted by local and international organisations. 15 | P a g e Our exclusively published videos of vote buying, voters intimidation and harassment in Imo, Oyo and Plateau States had a positive effect on the election/electorates. A lot of which were referenced by civil society organizations like CDD and Situation Room. Election Polling Unit Premium Times on field reporting also guided security agencies to be more professional in locations like Sokoto and Imo States. Our on the spot reporting of inappropriate behavior, caused a prompt response of the caution sent from the headquarters of the Nigerian Police Force to their officers on the ground. Below is a link to one of our election report. https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/260578-2019-lawyers-react-new-electionsequence.html 3. Nigeria’s four season of lavishness; https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/312330-special-report-nigerias-fourseasons-of-lavishness-with-n15-46-trillion-excess-crude-fund.html 4. Documents show Buhari’s govt. illegally diverted N378billion NLNG dividend; https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/294097-exclusive-documents-showbuharis-govt-illegally-diverted-n378billion-nlng-dividend.html 16 | P a g e 5. Attorney General Malami moves to ‘frustrate’ NBC DG’s N2.5 billion corruption trial; https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/325691-exclusive-attorney-generalmalami-moves-to-frustrate-nbc-dgs-n2-5-billion-corruption-trial.html 6. How LASU pro-chancellor, VC diverted N198 million staff pension to buy luxury vehicles; An investigation revealing the illegal withdrawal of contributory pension funds of employee by the Pro chancellor of the institution for the purchase of luxury vehicles for its top echelons https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/325297-how-lasu-pro-chancellor-vcdiverted-n198-million-staff-pension-to-buy-luxury-vehicles.html 7. Malabu Investigations; https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/328572-malabu-scandal-nigerian-govtdemands-3-5-billion-from-eni-shell.html 8. Procurement fraud revealing the award of pre-qualified contracts to contractors by lawmakers for intervention projects to border communities and awarded by the agency; https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/305218-exclusive-agency-headed-bybuharis-in-law-caught-in-another-massive-procurement-fraud.html 9. https://dubawa.org/ngige-lied-nigeria-does-not-have-surplus-doctors/ 10. https://www.premiumtimesng.com/news/headlines/289615-investigation-how-forgerybribery-exam-malpractice-booms-at-lagos-primary-schools.html 17 | P a g e MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES This section shows the demographics of employees and management broken down by several of variables, comparing the significant difference between two progressive years. Gender MANAGEMENT 2019 2018 86% 67% 33% 14% 2018 2019 Male Female Fig 1 Management Gender Ratio Fig 2 Employees Gender Ratio Ethnicity Fig 3 Management Ethnic Ratio Fig 4 Employees Ethnic Ratio 18 | P a g e Age Range Fig 5 Management Age Ratio Fig 6 Employee Age Ratio Waste Management Fig 7 Waste Management Ratio 19 | P a g e Career Fig 8 Career 20 | P a g e About Us Premium Times Services Limited, publishers of Premium Times, is a Nigerian media organisation based in Abuja with a vision to help strengthen Nigeria’s democracy, advance the socio-economic wellbeing and rights of the people, promote and enrich their cultural practices, and advocate for best practices, good governance, transparency and human rights, in line with the values expected of a modern democratic state. Proprietors of the organisation believe that of all the institutions of a modern democracy, the media matter in large measure. It can help forge new communities, pursue political and social agenda in support of a better society, and help build visions of hope and resistance. Sadly the media can also lead in negative directions: dividing people and truncating hope and vision. In our country, the media have played both roles at different times in our history. Premium Times, founded in mid-2011, believes that the time has come for Nigeria to embrace the challenge of progress and development in a substantial, concrete sense. We bring a huge commitment to offer our country the type of media that will advocate for the people and nudge our nation on the path of development and social reengineering. We are of the view that in terms of its formalistic processes, and its philosophy of content, the new media that will help spur the challenge of educational revolution, cultural rebirth, and economic development in Nigeria must be reflective, thoughtful, analytic and empathetic without a sense of entitlement and insularity. We have come to fill that lacuna in our press, and therefore raise the bar of journalism in our country. We will publish across all formats beginning with this online platform where we hope to appeal to the bulk of our young and middle class elites with a vision of the future and a belief in social change. 21 | P a g e DRM Software Review
