SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ’18 About this report Under the motto “Sustainability at the core of our DNA”, the Sustainability Report of Sonae SGPS, SA. (henceforth also known as Sonae or Sonae Group) aims to present the group’s contribution towards sustainable development regarding the economic, environmental and social pillars, and meet the expectations and interests of the different stakeholders. The report focuses on the period of activity from the 1st January to the 31st December 2018 of Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae Sports & Fashion, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Sonaecom (which includes Sonae IM and the Media area, among others) and Sonae Sierra. This report does not consolidate NOS non-financial data, a company in which Sonaecom holds 23.4%, and the Iberian Sports Retail Group (which encompasses SportZone, Sprinter, JD and Size?) in which Sonae Sports & Fashion holds 30%. In relation to Salsa, which is part of Sonae S&F, we only report data from the Spanish market. As in the previous year, the Report was developed in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI Standards) for the option “In accordance – Core”. The report highlights our performance at the level of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), in addition to responding to the requirements of the Portuguese Decree-Law no. 89/2017, published on 28th July 2017 and to the Spanish law no. 11/2018, published on 28th December 2018. The Report is composed of a central text structured upon the five action axes identified as priority areas, and a chapter about Sonae’s sustainability management model. For each one of the axes, the Group’s performance and some of the initiatives developed are presented. Additionally, the GRI Supplement complements the report presented, explaining the respective indicators. The information reported in the Sustainability Report 2018 was subject to verification by an external entity – KPMG. Should you require any further clarification regarding the information published in this Report, please check the website or contact: Catarina Oliveira Fernandes | Head of Communication, Brand and Corporate Responsibility | Email: catarina.fernandes@sonae.pt | Tel.: +351 220 104 000 02 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Table of contents About this report 2 Message from the Executive Commission 4 1. Sustainability at the core of our DNA 5 2. CO2 and climate change 12 3. Nature and biodiversity 17 4. Plastic 22 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 26 6. Community support 33 7. GRI Supplement 36 8. Non-financial information requirements 71 Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 03 Message from the Executive Commission We live in challenging times, in which people and businesses interconnect and where we are all called upon to contribute to Sustainable Development – a universal, transformative and inclusive “The path to sustainable agenda, which aims to respond to the diverse and complex questions, but development is long and, therefore, also to the opportunities, which today’s world presents. either individually or through At Sonae, this challenge is not new, we are highly committed to a longinteraction with the diverse actors term vision, and it is written in our DNA the need and urgency to go of each value chain, the different beyond the economic value generated by our businesses and cooperate businesses of the Sonae universe to overcome some of the most pressing environmental and social still have an important path to pave. challenges of our time, fostering well-being and development in the Our advantage lies in the fact that, communities where we are present, mitigating the risks and minimising knowingly, we aim to lead the way.” the negative impacts arising from our activities. Belmiro de Azevedo It is a path that we have been pursuing, in a conscious and consistent manner, and in 2018 we challenged all the teams to improve it and, in particular, to identify the areas where we could make a more valuable contribution, considering the nature and relevance of our activity. In this way, 2018 was a year of reflection and structuring the path we want to pave filled with many ambitions. Thus, on the one hand, we have strengthened the Sustainability Forum, an internal platform for sharing good practices, elevating it to a Consultative Group, with the purpose of giving it more influence in the definition of policies and more weight in the implementation of projects, processes and procedures that are required and able to accelerate, across the whole group, our ever-increasing commitment to sustainable development. On the other hand, we have defined the axes where we will focus our actions: (1) CO 2 and Climate Change, (2) Plastic, (3) Nature and Biodiversity, (4) Inequalities and Inclusive Development and (5) Community Support. In the 2018 report, we aimed to reflect on our performance and some of our ongoing projects and initiatives, in each of the above-mentioned axes, examples of which are the investment made to change the Group’s energy profile; the promotion of the sustainable use of plastic within our own businesses and through contact with consumers; the support to the Hall of Biodiversity; the continuous investment in the development of our people or the support to the community, which this year amounts to around 11M€. In 2018, we also finalised a loan of 55M€ with the European Investment Bank (EIB) to accomplish a challenging investment plan of 110M€. As agents of change and drivers of sustainable development, we do so by integrating sustainability into the core of our strategy and activity, creating shared value from the hard work and talent of our teams. We believe that sustainability is not, and should not be, compartmentalised, it is everyone’s responsibility through their daily activities. Doing the right thing every day, will make a difference, so that we can continue to write the history of a long-living company. 04 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 1. Sustainability at the core of our DNA We manage a diversified business portfolio in the areas of retail, financial services, technology, shopping centres and telecommunications. As a long-living company, we have a long-term vision of the way we carry out our activities and relate to our stakeholders. Sustainability is a key part of our DNA and, with this in mind, we are committed to contributing to the improvement of the communities in which we operate, working together to overcome the most pressing environmental and social issues of our time. Policies developed and commitments subscribed to by Sonae Throughout this path, we would like to highlight some of the principles and commitments to which we subscribe, as well as the internal benchmarks we have developed and that support us in the management of our activity, throughout its different dimensions: • The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The United Nations Global Compact Principles • The Paris Pledge for Action • The European Roundtable of Industrials (ERT) Women’s Initiative • The Letter of Principles of BCSD Portugal • Sonae’s Code of Ethics and Conduct for Employees • Sonae’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers 1.1 Sustainability governance model In 2018, we reviewed our governance model with the aim of strengthening the alignment between the companies that make up the Sonae Group. Therefore, the Sustainability Advisory Group (SAG) emerged from the development of the Sustainability Forum, which had a purpose of knowledge sharing. This change aims to foster the development and adoption of common policies and principles of action, as well as the pursuit of goals and targets, in the priority areas identified. Goals of the Sustainability Advisory Group: • Development of policies and goals common to the whole of the Sonae Group • Development of policies and the setting of targets for the different companies • Coordination of Sonae's presence in external forums • Dissemination of best practices and know-how • Creation of synergies • Promotion of sustainability • Performance monitoring and reporting Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 05 In order to ensure the advisory group’s mission and goals are fulfilled, we have defined two levels of action: a crosssectional group of core members who meet quarterly, representing the different Sonae companies and a set of working groups, formed according to the areas to be addressed, which are the following: CO2 and climate change, nature and biodiversity, plastic, inequalities and inclusive development and community support. Sonae’s Board of Directors oversees the Advisory Group, is responsible for promoting the principles and practices of action, which contribute to the creation of sustainable value by the group and its companies, in addition to approving Sonae’s sustainability strategy. The Holding Company, as the portfolio manager, is responsible for developing and implementing the strategy, ensuring the group’s position on sustainability-related issues, promoting compliance with its values, specifically social responsibility, and reporting the group’s performance. The companies that make up the Sustainability Advisory Group are responsible for promoting and integrating the principles of sustainable development into their activity, as well as for developing and adopting the policies and goals considered as priorities, by monitoring and reporting their performance. 1.2 Surveys and stakeholder involvement The management of our activities is based on the principles of sustainable development, whose contribution exceeds the economic value generated by our business, and which stems directly from a set of values and principles that guide the way we operate. This vision is only possible by establishing long-lasting relationships with our stakeholders. For this purpose, we have implemented tools and processes that allow us to identify and understand our stakeholders’ current and future needs and concerns. 06 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 CUSTOMERS AND EMPLOYEES INVESTORS SUPPLIERS VISITORS Websites Social Climate Survey General Meetings Suppliers’ Portals Call Centres Sonae Ombudsman Quarterly Financial Visits and Audits Suggestions and Surveys Reports Reciprocal Training Intranet News Surveys Complaints Systems Response to Specific Internal Publications Performance Assessment Sonae Ombudsman Knowledge Sharing Questionnaires Surveys Forums and Groups Stores and Shopping Centres REGULATORY AND COMMUNITY MEDIA SHOP TENANTS GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES Participation in various Partnerships with Conferences Written Communications Sector-Specific Representative Interviews Meetings Associations Institutions Response to specific Training Community Engagement questions Surveys Projects Surveys Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 07 In this context, following the organisational changes previously mentioned, in 2018 we reviewed the stakeholder survey process – employees, customers, suppliers, investors/analysts, industry and sector associations and communities – carried out in 2017. As a result of this analysis, with the aim of integrating Sonae's perspective, the action areas considered as priorities for the group were identified and an internal assessment took place of the 26 issues stakeholders had previously evaluated. These issues were classified according to their importance for Sonae and grouped into three clusters: 1 issues intrinsic to the principles and values of the group; 2 matters addressed in the previous cycle and/or a highly integrated within the business; and 3 – areas on which Sonae could have a positive impact through the nature and relevance of its activity. Organisation of the areas by cluster 1 3 2 Contrasting the priority areas highlighted by the external stakeholders, with the internal perspective (employees and management), a materiality matrix was drawn up. For the first two clusters, this matrix confirms the maturity of the management of these themes in the group and, on the other hand, it highlights the special relevance of 12 out of the 16 issues prioritised by Sonae: Responsible Investment, Sustainable Supply Chain, Human Capital Development, Diversity, Inclusion and Equality Opportunities, Community Involvement, Energy Consumption, Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency, Eco-efficiency, Biodiversity Protection, Impact of Plastic Bags and Packaging, Waste Management, Combating Food Waste and Sustainable Agriculture and Fishing. 08 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Materiality matrix 1.3 Action axes Based on the material issues identified, the results of the previous strategic cycle, the areas highlighted at sector level, the commitments subscribed to by Sonae and in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, we defined the following five action axes, which will guide our activities in building a sustainable future: CO2 and climate change, nature and biodiversity, plastic, inequalities and inclusive development and community support. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 09 Improving Life – Our path towards a sustainable future We consider the action axes to be a central part of an interconnected and interdependent system, in which material themes are not understood in a strict and compartmentalised way, therefore influencing the different axes directly and in a multidimensional way. Responsible Investment and Sustainable Supply Chain are considered to be transversal themes, relevant to all the axes because of their impact on management decisions, as they are directly related to the way we invest and how we, together with our suppliers, design and develop processes, products and services following the principles of efficiency and circularity. From 2019 onwards, these axes will be developed across the whole organisation with the continual definition of policies, principles of action, goals and targets to be achieved by the Sonae companies. CO2 and climate change – the companies’ activity contributes significantly to climate change – not only through the energy consumption throughout the different stages of the production cycle, but also by the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions resulting from different activities. For this reason, it is fundamental to develop efforts to limit the 010 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 average increase in temperature between 2º and 1.5ºC, in line with the commitment we made when we signed the Paris Pledge for Action1. Nature and biodiversity – the dependence of organisations on natural capital and the consequent impact (direct and indirect) underlying this and/or the potential habitat change leads us to consider issues related to protecting biodiversity, promoting sustainable agriculture and fishing, combating pollution, in addition to the dimensions of sustainable consumption, responsible production processes, the preservation of ecosystems such as forests or, the promotion of a deeper understanding of this topic in the community as relevant. Plastic considering the role that plastic plays in today’s society, we understand the enormous environmental challenge it represents namely, the high consumption of single-use plastics and the inefficiency of recycling policies. Given the nature of our activities, we consider it urgent to work together to promote more sustainable production, logistics and consumption processes. Inequalities and inclusive development are one of the most urgent social challenges of our time and one to which we can contribute in different ways. As a reference employer, we have an important role to play in creating qualified employment, implementing development policies for our people or promoting diversity in its various forms. In terms of community, we see education as an important and powerful tool to combat inequalities and develop a more non-discriminatory and inclusive society. Community support – the support, in an integrated and sustained way, to the community is a legacy of Sonae’s culture, present across the entire group. Within the framework of our activities, we aim to increase the resilience and autonomy of the communities in which we operate, contributing to the elimination of poverty in all its different forms. This axis, therefore, is intrinsically linked to the former axis, considering that we aim to enhance the impact of our action, in favour of more empowered and resilient communities. 1 In 2015, Sonae joined the list of companies that signed the Paris Pledge for Action this initiative, within the scope of the Paris Climate Summit (COP21), aims to protect the planet from climate change and establishes a commitment by businesses to keep the increase in global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 011 2. CO2 and climate change 90% 42,282 GJ of equipment sold has produced from 984.015 tCO2e an efficiency level ≥A . renewable sources (-3.9% compared to 2017) (home appliances, televisions (+28.7% compared to 2017) and air conditioning) Combating climate change is a central topic in the Sonae Group's sustainable development agenda. We believe that the companies can and should play an important role in this regard. Our support is clearly demonstrated through our endorsement of the Paris Pledge for Action and, internally, we launched a working group whose mission is to map Sonae's response to this commitment, based on best known practices and trends. A second group was also created to assess the risk that climate change represents for our different businesses. Nevertheless, we have a long history of climate change action, a path that our companies have paved in order to improve their carbon footprint. Several initiatives have been implemented to promote eco-efficiency, as detailed in the examples provided below. In addition, we have increased our investment in renewable energy production systems. Investment in renewable energy The installation of photovoltaic plants is part of an integrated effort to improve our environmental and energy performance, which also includes the installation of more efficient equipment in terms of cold production systems, electricity and air conditioning. Currently, the retail structure (stores and warehouses) is partially powered by 141 photovoltaic plants, which represents an increase of 20 units compared to 2017. This investment allowed us to reduce the energy dependence of our facilities, generating energy savings of around 20% per unit, depending on the installed area and the period of sun exposure. In 2018, the accumulated production of energy from renewable sources was 42,282 GJ (28.7% more than in 2017), of which 38.2% were channelled for self-consumption, and the remaining 61.8% sold to into the public grid. All in all, this production allowed the potential emission of 5,520 tCO2e to be avoided. Following a pilot study carried out in the last year to test the feasibility of installing photovoltaic panels in four assets in Portugal, in 2019, Sonae Sierra is planning to install the first system in Maia Shopping. 012 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 2.1 Energy performance In 2018, the total energy consumption of our companies was 3,470,999 GJ, which represented an increase of 2.0% in relation to the previous year due to the extension of the scope of this indicator to the retail activity in Spain, which makes the number not entirely comparable. In the similar scope, we recorded a slight reduction (1%) in comparison to 2017. This figure, considering the widened scope, includes 2,539,711 GJ of electricity and 800, 303 GJ of fuels, which represents 73.2% and 22.6% of the energy consumption, respectively. It is worth noting that 16,139 GJ of the consumed energy during the year comes from the production of energy from renewable sources. Although it still represents a small share of the energy consumed (0.5%), this is an increase of 294% since the previous year, as a result of the previously mentioned investment. Energy consumption (GJ) in 2017 and 2018 Energy consumption (GJ) by type (+2.0% compared to 2017) in 2017 and 2018 At Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten the energy consumption shows an increase of 4.4%, as a result of extending the scope of this indicator to the activity in Spain in 2018, otherwise it would have remained almost unchanged (-0.3%). The majority (74.7%) relates to electricity (1,665,647 GJ), with an increase of 2.4% for the above-mentioned reasons. Considering the comparable scope, it would show a reduction of 1.4% when compared to 2017. Despite organic growth, this decrease reflects our continued investment in projects and measures to promote energy efficiency, such as the installation of more efficient equipment and systems, LED lighting, installation of doors on refrigeration equipment, implementation of counters equipped with telemetry or audits of stores with lower energy performance. In addition, energy efficiency measures such as power adjustments and LED lighting have been implemented in the Spanish activity. In terms of fuels, this universe of Portuguese and Spanish companies was responsible for the consumption of 563,234 GJ (+10.6% compared to 20172). Looking towards minimising the impact of the increased logistics activity, we have been developing a set of projects aimed at optimising the routes by reducing the distances covered, increasing the 2In addition to the inclusion of the Spanish retail activity in 2018, it should be noted that the value of the natural gas consumption that contributes to the total consumption of fuels is not directly comparable with the total value of 2017, as the scope of 2018 of this indicator in Portugal is wider, as it includes warehouses in addition to stores. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 013 load capacity and the number of deliveries per km travelled. In addition, we have worked with suppliers to improve the eco-efficiency of the vehicles they use. By the end of 2018, 84% of the vehicles used complied with the Euro 6 3 Standard (representing a 12% increase from 2017); and the remaining 16% complied with the Euro 5 Standard. Backhauling Project Through this initiative, Sonae MC’s logistics department provides its suppliers with a transportation service, along the routes that our trucks would otherwise travel back empty, after completing the last store delivery. Thus, we attain a significant reduction of routes travelled with empty trucks, both of our stores’ supply fleet (upon return after the last delivery) and our suppliers’ fleet after delivery at our warehouse. In 2018, this project covered 40 suppliers (+14% when compared to the previous year) and resulted in a net saving of 1,801,480 km from our suppliers (+ 222% when compared to 2017) and 1,380 tonnes of avoided CO 2e emissions. The energy consumption at Sonaecom (Sonae IM & Media) grew by 10% over 2017. It was particularly aggravated by the significant increase in electricity consumption (+23% compared to the previous year). This variation is explained by the inclusion of new buildings in the scope of the report, when compared to 2017. As we are particularly sensitive to the issue, the company has been implementing several measures at its facilities in order to minimise energy loss and to increase the thermal performance of buildings. In terms of fuels, there was an increase of 4.3% over the previous year to 12,835 GJ. On the other hand, Sonae Sierra recorded a total reduction in energy consumption of 2% when compared to the previous year, with reductions of 2% in both electricity and fuel consumption and 5% in consumption derived from heating and cooling. The Bright programme, effective since 2013, has enabled the identification and implementation of various energy efficiency measures in Sonae Sierra's shopping centres by monitoring the electricity consumption of buildings and comparing them with an optimised virtual model. To date, the programme has allowed Sonae to identify 250 optimising measures, 76% of which were implemented in 28 of its shopping centres. With a total investment of 2.3 million euros, the implemented measures allow Sonae Sierra a reduction of electricity consumption of 19,100 MWh annually (approximately 11% of its annual consumption) and 2.4 million euros in costs. This corresponds to reductions in carbon dioxide emissions equivalent to 13% of Sonae Sierra's footprint in 2018 (Scope 1 and 2 based on average network emission factors). The remaining measures to be implemented will save 1.2 million euros in costs and around 8,700 MWh annually. This project was once again recognised and in 2018 won the Silver Stevie® Award, in the Energy Industry Innovation of the Year category at the 15th Annual International Business Awards®, one of the largest business recognition programmes in the world. 3 The Euro standards establish the rules for the exhaust emissions of cars sold in the countries of the European Union, defining the maximum limits for exhaust emissions of road vehicles. The Euro 6 is the latest standard and applies to all vehicles registered as of September 1st, 2015 included. 014 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 2.2 Carbon footprint In 2018, considering the wider reporting scope, Sonae companies emitted 984,015 tCO2e, a reduction of 3.9% in comparison to the previous year. This figure corresponds to 52,459 tCO2e of Scope 1 emissions (5.3%), 192,794 tCO2e of Scope 2 emissions (19.6%) and, lastly, 738,762 tCO2e of Scope 3 emissions (75.1% of the total carbon footprint). Total GHG emissions (tCO2e) Total GHG emissions (%) (-3.9% compared to 2017) per scope in 2018 The Scope 1 emissions recorded an increase of 4.2%, as a result of extending the scope, otherwise it would have decreased 1.2%. Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten’s activity is largely responsible for this type of emission, mainly associated with fuel consumption, representing 4.2% of total emissions. Furthermore, concerning Scope 2, mainly related to the consumption of electricity, the emissions from retail activity stand out with a combined 17.7% of the total emissions of the group. Overall, this scope was significantly reduced compared to 2017 (-21.1%), which is mainly associated with the reduction of electricity consumption from the public grid and the reduction of the emission factor of this type of emission. It should be noted that most of the emissions come from Scope 3, where Sonae Sierra's activities carry a weight of 74.2% in the total volume of emissions. This result is essentially due to the broader scope of this business unit compared to the rest, where 61.3% of total emissions from the Sonae companies are emissions associated with the different means of transport used by visitors to reach Sonae Sierra’s shopping centres. Although there is no direct control over these Scope 3 emissions, Sonae Sierra continues to raise their tenant’s awareness of good environmental management practices. They are also developing better access to many of their shopping centres, encouraging the use of public transport and promoting the use of bicycles, by ensuring the existence of suitable bicycle parking facilities. Accounting for emissions along the value chain In many sectors of activity, most greenhouse gas emissions do not occur during direct operations, but outside of the organisation’s own walls: in the supply chain and in the use of products and services. In the telecommunications sector, these indirect emissions represent, on average, about 80% of the total carbon footprint. NOS already includes and reports emissions from its own activities (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions), in addition to some sources of indirect emissions (Scope 3 emissions), such as the pendulum movements of its employees, the commute between home and work, or the treatment of the waste produced. In order to increase the capacity to Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 015 induce emission reductions throughout the value chain, in 2018, NOS developed a roadmap to expand the scope of accounting for its carbon footprint. Based on the methodology of the GHG Protocol, they identified the categories of indirect emissions most relevant to their activity, through criteria such as the estimated size of each category, the ability to influence its reduction, the level of risk exposure involved, the importance to its stakeholders and the practices of reference counterparts. The next step was to define the accounting methodology to be applied to each of the material categories. In the case of activities carried out by third parties, access to primary data is limited, so it was necessary to establish approaches based on the application of emission reference values by economic value (e.g., for the acquisition of goods and services) or by physical unit (e.g., for the energy consumption in customers' equipment). This exercise enabled us to conclude that the most relevant indirect emissions for NOS are associated with the production of the goods and services purchased (telecommunications network equipment, equipment placed with clients and interconnection services with other operators) and the use of products and services (energy consumption in mobile terminals, landlines, the set-up of TV boxes, customers’ routers or modems). Taking second place, in terms of relevance are the emissions associated with the network of stores operated by agents, the logistics and distribution activities carried out by third parties and the use of shared technical infrastructure with other operators. 016 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 3. Nature and biodiversity 83.5% 7,6 M€ 100 thousand of fresh products of surplus food donated €/year purchased from to the community invested in scientific national suppliers (+30% compared to research and (+3.5% compared to 2017) 2017) dissemination in the field of biodiversity A significant part of our activity is focused on retail. Considering that together with the agricultural sector and food processing companies, retailers have a significant impact on biodiversity 4, we are strongly committed to minimising the negative effects that the products we sell could have on nature. For this reason, together with our suppliers and partners, we have been developing a set of initiatives that foster the creation of responsible supply networks, contributing to the protection of ecosystems and the preservation of natural resources. We are also concerned with promoting sustainable consumption patterns to our customers, not only through information and awareness raising actions, but also through the provision of more products and services with a lower environmental and social footprint. Sonae becomes a patron of the University of Porto’s Hall of Biodiversity Sonae and the University of Porto, through the Hall of Biodiversity, celebrated the founding of a sponsorship programme to encourage the promotion, development and dissemination of scientific research in the field of biodiversity. Therefore, we recognise the importance of developing the understanding of this issue within the community, stimulating dialogue between the academia and society, and raising their awareness of the importance of biodiversity conservation. Through this sponsorship, Sonae will invest 300 thousand euros over the next 3 years. 4 Source: Lake Constance Foundation (2018) Recommendations. The “LIFE Food & Biodiversity – Biodiversity in Standards and Labels for the Food Industry” project. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 017 3.1 The creation of sustainable supply networks The Continent Producers Club (CPC) was founded in 1998, with the aim of supporting national agri-food production through the sharing of Sonae’s knowledge with producers. Today, its mission, still based on knowledge sharing, also involves strengthening strategic partnerships with producers who guarantee the availability in Continente stores of products of national origin of quality and that are innovative and increasingly sustainable. Focused on national production, innovation and the training of producers, CPC provides technical support to its members and recognises them through an integrated certification system. Understanding the Club's responsibility in terms of Production, and with sustainability as one of its focal areas, in 2018, a review of this system was carried out, with a view to optimising and using more stringent agri-food standards, including not only food quality and safety criteria, but also environmental, social responsibility and animal welfare criteria. In 2016, the CPC Scientific Council was formed and made up of researchers from national and foreign universities, through which a closer relationship between producers, academia and research centres is nurtured, thereby ensuring they have access to scientific and technical support. In this context and by way of example, in partnership with the Instituto Superior Técnico, the Club is part of the Food and Biodiversity project, whose main objective is to include biodiversity criteria into the certification, brands and labels of the agri-food sector. In 2018, several sector meetings were held, with representatives of the Scientific Council, Sonae’s Commercial Mangement Teams and the CPC members. These meetings involve knowledge sharing and the identification of opportunities and challenges that make a valuable contribution to national production and Continente’s supply. It is worth highlighting the 1st Meeting of the Scientific Council under the topic “Sustainable Production and Consumption” (goal no. 12 of the Sustainable Development Goals), and that was attended by all the producers of the Club, members of the Scientific Council, Sonae teams, Associação Zero and a representative of the UN. In 2018, the volume of purchases from the CPC members increased when compared to 2017, representing 23.1% of the value of fresh product purchases (33.1% in volume). It should also be noted that 83.5% of the value of Continente’s fresh product purchases is from national suppliers. Number of CPC members Purchase volume from CPC, M€ (2015-2018) (2015-2018) 018 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Cereals of 100% national origin Sonae MC has signed a pioneering and unprecedented supply agreement with six cereal operators, which involves the purchase of three thousand tonnes of Portuguese wheat. This step will ensure that all wheat bread produced in stores is of 100% national origin. A partnership that represents an important incentive for the relaunch of cereal production in Portugal. Aware of the importance of the sustainable management of marine resources 5, over the years, we have been implementing several measures that aim to minimise the impacts of fishing activities on marine biodiversity and promote the adoption of sustainable fishing practices, taking into consideration a set of guidelines that encourage the protection of ecosystems. In order to more easily assess the sustainability level of the products we sell, Sonae MC developed the Traffic Light System (TLS). From the use of this tool, the red, yellow, blue or green colour is assigned according to the fishing method used6, thus simplifying the survey of the main fishing practices. Priority is given to suppliers that use fishing methods with a lower impact on species and ecosystems. Volume of fish purchases according to the TLS classification (%) in 2018 Partnerships to promote sustainable consumption Retailers play a central role in the transition to a more sustainable consumption model, not only because of their ability to influence the supply chain, but also because of their close interaction with a significant part of the population. Throughout 2018, we developed and participated in several initiatives with this objective in mind, among which we would like to highlight the following: Cities and the Circular Economy for Food: Sonae MC joined the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s study on the transition of urban food systems towards a circular model. It outlined the main challenges to be addressed and the main areas of action to be developed, namely: sourcing food grown regeneratively and locally, where appropriate; making the most of food; and designing and marketing food products that are not only healthy from a nutritional point of view, but also in the way they are produced. Porto is one of the four focus cities where an in-depth analysis was carried out, along with Brussels, Guelph and São Paulo. 5 For further information see our Sustainable Fishing Policy. 6 Key: Green = The use of fishing methods that pose little risk to the species; Blue = Aquaculture; Yellow = There are some problems associated with the fishing methods used; Red = The fishing methods used are harmful to other species/habitats. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 019 The Food Wheel: Sonae MC has launched an integrated communication platform that aims to raise consumer’s awareness of the topics related to a healthy lifestyle and eating habits. With the support of a team of experts, content for different media channels (TV, Blog and Social Media) was created. Every month, the project focuses on a different topic that is presented to demystify the myths surrounding it, providing reliable information, showing the origin of food and products brought to the table, sharing lessons about cooking it and presenting quick and simple tricks for everyday life. Troca por Troca We plant a tree for each piece of used equipment: the campaign carried out in Portugal and Spain by Worten appealed to its customers to bring their old electrical and electronic equipment to the stores, guaranteeing that all the appliances delivered in store or collected from homes would be converted into trees to plant in the areas affected by the fires in the Iberian Peninsula, in 2017. To date, this initiative has resulted in the planting of 4,100 trees (arbutus unedo, oak and tilia trees) in Oliveira do Hospital and in Málaga. 3.2 Reduction of the environmental impact of our businesses Furthermore, we have invested significantly in the continuous improvement of Sonae's environmental management, aiming to minimise the impact of our activities on the environment. In order to do so, we are determined to ensure the efficient use of our resources, optimising water and energy consumption, and minimising GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions, without neglecting the effective management of the waste generated. Continuous improvement in environmental management is guaranteed through the Environmental Certification Programme, according to the international standard NP EN ISO 14001:2015. The implementation of this programme allows us to minimise our environmental impact, improve our infrastructure and strengthen our compliance to legal obligations from an environmental perspective. By the end of 2018, Sonae MC and Worten had 81 units certified according to the NP EN ISO 14001:2015, mostly stores: 51 Continente and 21 Worten. Sonae Sierra has 44% (20) of its operational shopping centres certified and, to date, 26 development projects certified according to the same standard. Environmental certification by type of infrastructure (%) in 2018 The Sonae Group of companies are committed to reducing their water footprint, enhancing the efficiency of their operations, innovating and using technology to rethink the way water is used and managed throughout their infrastructure. 020 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 In 2018, Sonae companies consumed 2,938,251m3 of water, showing an increase of 2.5%, due to observed growth in the activity in Portugal and also because of extending the scope of this indicator to the activity in Spain in 2018. Despite this growth, the consumption ratios by store area, in the case of Sonae MC, or by common area, in the case of Sonae Sierra, show an improvement in terms of efficiency, with the consumption ratios per m 2 decreasing in Sonae MC, or remaining the same, in Sonae Sierra. The decline seen in Sonae MC is due to the progressive installation of meters equipped with telemetry, which allow consumption monitoring. 72% of the consumed water resources come from the public supply networks. Additionally, it should be noted that in the case of Sonae Sierra, 12% of the consumed water (excluding tenants) is reused or recycled. Total water consumption (m3) in 2017 and 2018 (+2.5% compared to 2017) Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 021 4. Plastic 1,295t +23 thousand +37t of plastic material of virgin plastic avoided avoided by eliminating students reached with the inclusion of 80% disposable plastic through Missão of recycled material in utensils from Bagga and Continente’s reusable bags Continente take-away environmental education initiatives In recent years, we have witnessed a global movement focused on reducing plastic consumption, particularly singleuse plastic. Due to the very nature and relevance of a significant part of our activity, in which we are in direct contact with producers, operators and consumers, considering the efforts we have been putting in rethinking and redesigning our processes, products and services in relation to circularity, we consider that we play a crucial role in responding to this challenge. With this in mind, our focus will be on: identifying and reducing the amount of plastic we use in our operations and in our products, strengthening the principles of circularity in our actions, replacing plastic with alternative materials with less environmental impact, and raising communities’ awareness of the responsible use of plastic by promoting behaviours that fosters the reduction, reuse, repair and recycling of plastic. We believe that these goals will contribute not only to reduce the consumption of single-use plastic, but also of other materials, in particular regarding the packaging of the products we distribute and concerning secondary packaging. 4.1 Rethinking the use of plastic In 2018, we developed a diversified set of actions aimed at reducing plastic consumption, in particular by reducing its use in the packaging of our own brand products and the introduction of recycled raw materials. These measures are being gradually implemented by the different companies in their various areas operational processes, central structures, warehouses, consumables and own brand products. Due to its volume (more than 50 million units per year) at Sonae MC, we would like to highlight the introduction of polyethylene (PE) plastic bags, made up of 80% recycled material, in both the stores and for online deliveries. Furthermore, in 2018, Sonae S&F through its Zippy stores, and MO, in 2019, decided to end the use of plastic bags, replacing them with paper bags. 022 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Regarding the packaging of our own brand products, we have been introducing a number of changes aiming at reducing their environmental footprint. As an example, Worten reduced the plastic packaging of Goodis headphones by 50% using cardboard instead, and Kunft began to use kraft packaging with only a small printed area and no plastic film around it. Project YPACK: Under the motto Fighting Food Waste & Plastics, this project aims to develop a new generation of biodegradable packaging that simultaneously increases the shelf-life of critical products. The consortium responsible for the project encompasses a wide range of partners including Sonae MC, the University of Minho, Lisbon’s Nova University, INL Laboratories, Linpac and others. Sonae MC is leading the work package in relation to the approval of the prototype and in 2019 will test these new types of packaging on a range of products, namely on the Panana (banana cakes) – one of the circular economy items developed by the company. While working on innovative solutions for alternative materials, in some products Sonae MC has been, in parallel, replacing plastic packaging with cardboard (e.g., Boost and Mainstream lamps) or reducing the amount of plastic used, such as in the case of Boost batteries (a decrease of more than 70%). In the last year, it should also be noted that the cuvettes used for the products available at the meat counters have increased the inclusion of recycled material to 50%. Deeply eco-friendly wetsuits: The wetsuits are developed with ecological neoprene (85%) and with a reduced amount of synthetic rubber (15%), in this case chlorine-free. Naturalprene allows natural neoprene to be made from natural rubber which comes from plants and glued with an ecologically solvent-free and chemical-free water-based product. Deeply also uses other environmentally friendly technologies in its products, such as neoprene based on natural limestone minerals, eco carbon black (resulting from the reuse of car tires), which significantly reduces energy consumption and CO 2 emissions of 200g per suit, and aqua tack (TM), a solvent-free and completely water-based glue, eliminating harmful volatile organic compounds (VOCs). It is also worth highlighting that in terms of operations, the Bagga coffee shops and Continente take-away sections have eliminated disposable plastic dishes (stirrers, cutlery, plates, water and teacups), which will reduce consumption by more than 37 tonnes/year. We will also have an annual saving of around 72 tonnes by reducing the thickness of films used in logistics operations. In addition, Sonae S&F is developing a set of guidelines aimed at reducing the number of labels used and the plastic used in the packaging of its products. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 023 Promoting sustainable behaviour Our action also extends downstream through the promotion of the conscious use of plastic and our management of the waste generated by our activities. Corporate Offices: plastic cups for drinking water and coffee have been eliminated in our offices, as was the case with SportZone, which celebrated the World Nature Conservation Day by offering its employees sports water bottles and glass cups for coffee, thus reducing the need to use plastic for this purpose. Worten and Sonae MC have introduced changes of the same nature. Escola Missão Continente: in the 2018/2019 academic year, reached 23,939 students in 273 schools, with the challenge of involving the entire educational community in reducing the use of plastic. This programme focuses on learning through didactic activities, the distribution of recreational materials, field trips and challenges, which will encourage the community to think and act on these and other topics. In this way, we aim to develop a multidisciplinary initiative capable of involving students, teachers, helpers and parents in becoming aware of our excessive use of plastic how we use it, what we do with it after using it, how we can give it a new life, reducing and making its use more conscious – educating students so that they too can become agents of change. 4.2 Responsible Waste Management In 2018, Sonae produced 125,433 t of waste (+5.94% year-on-year) in line with the increase in its activity and as a result of extending the scope of the report, 61.2% of which is due to retail operation. Waste production (Tonne) in 2017 and 2018 (+5.94% compared to 2017) During the year, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Maxmat and Worten, in Portugal and Spain, were responsible for the total production of 77,662 t of waste (+8.2% year-on-year). They recorded a recovery rate of 81.4% (+0.3% year-on-year) of the waste produced, of which 63,248 t were recovered and 14,414 t were disposed. 024 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 In 2018, Sonae Sierra had a 2.4% increase in the production of waste resulting from the activity of its shopping centres and corporate offices, from which 47,768 t, corresponding to 66.1% of this waste was sent for recycling, composting or anaerobic digestion. In terms of promoting recycling, in the retail area we have recycling bins in the car parks of our stores, so that our customers can exercise their environmental citizenship options in a more comfortable way, taking advantage of their trips to these areas. On the other hand, Continente Online has implemented a return process, ensuring that the bags returned by customers are recycled. Recovery rate (%) in 2017 and 2018 Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 025 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 19,1% % of +900 1.2M women and students involved 22,5% of men through our Hours of training partnership with the promoted Cerco School Group. We see inequalities as one of the most complex and urgent social challenges of our time. We believe that it is through education that a fairer, non-discriminatory and inclusive society can be built. In order to bring the benefits of progress to an ever-increasing number of people, we take on the responsibility of addressing this challenge, internally and externally, and the commitment to play an active role in reducing inequalities in the communities in which we operate. 5.1 Promoting a diverse and inclusive organisation It is our ambition to be a diverse and inclusive organisation, able to attract, integrate and develop people with different profiles and experiences. In this sense, we work continuously to provide the best context to develop our teams’ skills and for them to reach their full potential, in a safe and fair working environment, where everyone’s contribution is valued. We are convinced that only in this way, based on this wealth of profiles, we will be able to respond to the current and future challenges of our business and of society in general. With this in mind, we have undertaken a commitment to promote diversity in its different dimensions, particularly in relation to age, gender, qualifications or previous professional experience. Some of the guidelines considered when promoting diversity are that during the recruitment process, we always recommend to recruiters to create a balanced short-list in terms of gender representation and to pay attention to the composition of the teams, avoiding homogenous teams. In addition, we monitor performance appraisals, promotions, salary reviews and resignations, in order to guarantee the fair management of these processes in terms of equality and non-discrimination. At the end of 2018 we employed 45,231 people, 3.1% more than in 2017, of which 65% are women and 35% are men. This increase is justified by the expansion of the group's various businesses. Of these, 70% are permanent employees, this proportion remained relatively stable compared to 2017. Most of the employees (92%) are in Portugal. The remaining, 5.5% are located in Spain, a trend that remains stable in comparison to previous years, and 2.5% are situated in other geographic areas. 026 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Nº. of employees in 2017 and 2018 (+3.1% compared to 2017) Nº. of employees by type of job in 2018 Sonae strengthens women's representation in top leadership positions Sonae is among the European companies with the highest percentage of women in leadership positions, according to the analysis presented by the European Roundtable of Industrialists (ERT). By the end of 2018, 32.4% of Sonae's leadership positions were held by women. Sonae intends to continue to strengthen this performance, with the goal set to ensure that by 2020, 30% of the Top Management positions of the group are filled by women. The increased representation of women in top positions in Sonae is already visible at the level of Sonae’s Board of Directors and Supervisory Board, where today one in every four members is female, which represents a significant increase compared to 2013. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 027 5.2 Development of our people We promote a meritocratic culture, where a differentiated performance and the contribution of our employees is supported through recognition processes and tools. Sonae’s performance management model Improving Our People promotes, on an annual basis, joint reflection between management and each team member on their performance achieved and the existing opportunities for development. Training is a focal point for the personal and professional development of our employees. In 2018, the number of training hours in the Sonae Group increased by 13.2%, as well as the average number of hours of training per employee (13.8%), despite the reductions seen in Sonaecom and Sonae Sierra. The decrease in Sonaecom is due to the fact that, in 2017, a number of specific training sessions related to the launch of a new product was carried out. At Sonae Sierra, in 2017, a cycle of long-term training came to an end and did not continue in 2018. Training hours in 2017 and 2018 (+13.2% compared to 2017) Average hours of training per employee in 2017 and 2018 028 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Our training offer was developed to respond to the needs of the different employee segments, from the most operational to the most strategic levels, taking into consideration the different generations, areas and geographic locations that characterise our human profile. Qualifica Centre: we are one of the only two private companies in Portugal to host a Qualifica Centre, created by the Portuguese government, which aims to increase our employees’ level of education, as well as to certify them in various subjects. The objective of the programme is to increase the qualification level of Sonae MC’s employees, who have not completed an upper-secondary education, by 4%, by 2020. In 2018, 185 adults were certified, 95 of whom increased their school qualifications and 90 their professional qualifications. Fashion Partnerships: Sonae S&F has been developing partnerships with entities that work on design and fashion in order to develop specific skills in its employees in these areas. The London College of Fashion and Central St Martins are examples of entities with which we have been developing partnerships both at the level of specific technical business expertise, such as clothing, textiles, materials, patterns and colour, and at the level of sharing creative trends, consumer lifestyles or fashion culture. In 2018, we implemented the Improving Our People GT (Growth Toolkit) programme directed at all of the Sonae Group of Senior Executives. This programme represents a specific approach to the management and development of the group's executive talent, involving two phases. A first phase of diagnosis, which includes a description of the participants' profile in relation to their skills, experiences, motivational drivers and personality, and which aims to promote in each case a clear and comprehensive vision of what their positively differentiated values are, as well as of the areas where there is still room for development. This diagnostic stage culminates with an individual feedback session, led by a coach from outside the organisation. The second stage is based on the co-construction of personal and professional development plans customised to each person, with a time horizon of two to three years, covering different approaches, in line with the preferences and priorities defined. In order to prepare employees who have recently taken on leadership roles, Sonae MC has launched a new management and leadership programme, First Time Leaders. The contents of this programme have a strong practical component, with a focus on real-world situations mapped in a work context and they also invest in the construction of digital collaborative communities to reinforce the network among the approximately 500 participants. The sessions aim to capitalise the internal know-how and the potential for cooperation between different areas and partners of Sonae MC. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 029 Digital platforms for training and development In order to continue to promote a culture of learning, we have been developing a set of alternative training formats adapted to the contexts of different businesses. Sonae Academy Management & Leadership and Values & People: aims to be a central platform in the way we learn and share knowledge, responding to different learning styles and preferences through the following approaches: Books & Articles – with a recommended reading component on a diverse set of management, leadership and business topics, with suggestions updated monthly and the Learning Hubz – is an online platform for easy and permanent access to short videos on a wide range of management and leadership issues. The curation of this content is carried out in more than 200 renowned institutions such as Harvard, Columbia, IMD, MIT, among many others. At the end of 2018, it had more than 2,000 registered and approximately 1,150 active employees, with more than 10 thousand videos/sessions accessed, which involved the investment of more than 740 hours by our people. Worten Academy: is a digital training platform focused on topics that are essential and relevant to the business, such as sales, products, services or after-sales. In 2018, it consolidated its relevance for the development of the teams, with an increase of around 30% in the training hours carried out through this platform and reaching more than 6,400 employees, who evaluated the training content positively (4.3 on a scale of 1 5 points). From 2019 onwards, this platform will allow on-site and on-the-job training to be managed. Wortubers is an interactive channel that aims to share knowledge among Worten employees using videos produced by the collaborators themselves. This solution allows Worten employees to use their knowledge and skills by promoting peer learning and mutual help among colleagues. This initiative already has 17 videos, with more than 775 views. 4.3 Building inclusive communities We consider education an important and powerful tool for social transformation. A belief clearly based on the legacy that Belmiro de Azevedo built. A commitment that goes beyond Sonae’s borders and is extended through Belmiro de Azevedo’s education think tank – Edulog Foundation. This platform aims to discuss education, promote research and informed debate on issues as diverse as the learning process we experience throughout life or the best policies for a transformative education, among many other topics. Along this journey, one of the lessons we have learnt is that these themes must be developed with a long-term perspective in mind, with an articulated and integrated logic between the various community members who are involved in the communities. In this sense, since 2007, we have nurtured a partnership with the Cerco School Group, which was initiated as part of a partnership with the educational service of Porto City Council through the Porto de Futuro project. This partnership aims to support school management and development, with a view to fostering the increased participation of civil society in school life, recognising the fundamental role of education in the sustainable development of a more competitive and dynamic society. Therefore, we are developing actions for 3 types of beneficiaries students, school communities and families both at school and outside the school environment. 030 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Under the scope of this partnership, in the 2018/2019 academic year, a group of 77 students were involved in the Network of Mediators for School Success programme, developed by the Association of Entrepreneurs for Social Inclusion (EPIS), which identifies youth at risk in terms of leaving school before they complete upper-secondary education and continuously monitors each student closely, aiming at empowering the students and encouraging them to be successful, as well as discouraging early school leavers, absenteeism and disciplinary issues. Regarding curriculum enrichment initiatives, we would like to highlight the partnership with Yscience that aims to promote interest in the areas of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (CTEM). Through practical activities that combine scientific and technological components with ludic-pedagogical components, we intend to awaken hidden talents while developing a series of fundamental skills that can make a difference in their school and professional choices. The programme involves 80 students from the second year of the primary education cycle, from three of the group’s primary education schools. In addition, the development programme of 22 students, who are part of the group’s Specific Individual Curriculum, is complemented by weekly therapeutic horse-riding lessons, as well as the presence of three students in six adapted equestrian events and in the Special Olympics Portugal. With the aim of enriching the students' schooling and developing their personal, relational and social skills, we provide a number of internships, promote a diversified programme of field trips and offer a regular cycle of lectures, entitled Inspiring Conversations, which brings people to the school from different sectors of society, who share their journey with the students. As we advocate at Sonae, we consider the recognition of merit and performance essential for success. As such, at the end of each school year we grant four merit awards to: the two best students of Year 12 (general and technical education), the EPIS student who has shown the most improvement, and the student in the group who developed the most relevant social responsibility project. In addition, the best student of each academic year (ten students, in total) can enrol in the University of Porto’s Summer Junior University programme. As we consider family a key player in this project, and in order to foster closer family interaction with the school environment, we provide a series of workshops designed to support them in the education of their younger children, in addition to promoting times of social and cultural interaction. We also promote an individualised plan, with close monitoring by EPIS mediators, so that the work with the student is carried out jointly by the School Family Community triad, providing families with tools to improve study methods and habits, interpersonal relationships and conflict management. For the school community, we have developed a set of actions that aims to recognise the work developed and promote some awareness actions on topics that may be relevant to the performance of their activities. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 031 Código Dá Vinte The Código Dá Vinte project, celebrated its 6th edition in 2018, supporting the Associação Corações com Coroa, has provided 34 annual grants for young girls who, although school achievers, have faced various socioeconomic constraints that have hampered their school attendance and consequent progression in their studies. Customers made their contributions in one of the more than 190 Worten stores in the country or through Worten.pt and Worten added another 20% to the total amount raised, resulting in a total donation of €180,000, delivered earlier this year to Corações com Coroa. This Worten initiative takes place every year at Christmas time and invites customers to contribute to a particular cause and, in order to do this, all they have to do is go to a Worten store and swipe the solidarity bar code, for a minimum amount of €0.20. This action is also valid in Worten.pt. Along the same lines, and with the aim of supporting the academic studies of the children of our employees with more precarious financial situations, we have a scholarship programme in place. This programme is transversal to all companies and recognises the merit of young people by awarding scholarships to candidates with the highest overall averages of each school year in question. Within this scope, Sonae IM also supports the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto (FEUP) in the area of computer engineering. For this purpose, in early 2019, Sonae IM and FEUP announced a partnership for the creation of a research and development laboratory Sonae IM LAB@FEUP. The goal of this partnership is to encourage the cocreation of knowledge and the development of technologies in the field of computer engineering, as well as to promote innovation and competitiveness of companies in the sector, contributing to the creation of highly qualified scientific employment. Within this framework, we intend to carry out joint research projects between Sonae IM and FEUP that reflect, in an integrated way, both academia and industry’s interests. In parallel and given the impact that the low birth rate and the aging population may have on the communities where we operate, specifically in Portugal, these issues have gained particular relevance for the Sonae Group. Well's has created the For a Future with More Babies project, designed to celebrate the births which have taken place, support a group of poor households, as well as promoting an in-depth debate on the issue. Over the course of the year, more than 40 thousand Baby Well's kits were distributed, covering half of the births in Portugal and support was given to about 50 families in need, covering all their childcare, infant feeding and hygiene needs, as well as the care needs of their mothers. A volunteer network of Well's employees was also created, which sponsored these families and visited them weekly. Sonae MC is part of the CordonGris project, whose mission is to help seniors maintain a healthy and independent life through meal recommendations, health management and shopping assistance in the context of a defined budget. Through an easy-to-use system, CordonGris will assist in meal planning and family budget management without compromising the quality of each individual's diet. This project is being developed in three countries: Portugal, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. Sonae MC is one of the partners along with Can Cook, Red Ninja Studios, Santa Casa da Misericórdia of Lisbon and the Association of Catholic Organizations of Senior Citizens. The project is coordinated by Fraunhofer Portugal. 032 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 6. Community support 11M € 1.175 1.360 for community support institutions volunteers supported The Sonae Group’s commitment to support the development of the communities in which it operates is a value that is transversal to the various companies in the group. With this goal in mind, we want to enhance our contribution by measuring the impact, focusing on the initiatives where we are most effective and empowering social economy organisations with whom we work in order to help them to strengthen the effectiveness of their own missions. We believe that in this way, we will be contributing to more empowered and resilient communities. Throughout 2018, we invested around 11 million euros of support to social economy organisations (1,175 institutions), representing an increase of 13.4% in comparison to 2017. These contributions cover five distinct areas: social solidarity, health and sport, raising environmental awareness, culture, education and science and innovation. Sonae’s direct support to the community (€) in 2017 and 2018 (+13.4% compared to 2017) Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 033 The commitment to share and promote well-being is a value that is transversal to the various companies of the Sonae group, which, influenced by this strong culture, have developed diverse external initiatives, reinforcing their proximity to the community. Outlined below are some of the actions developed during 2018: Food Donations Missão Continente: in Sonae MC preventing food waste is a cause shared by different areas throughout the entire value chain. As such, they have committed themselves to combating and giving value to this food waste based on a diverse set of actions, amongst which we would like to emphasise the donation of products to social economy organisations, an initiative implemented in 274 stores and warehouses, allowing Sonae MC to support 900 organisations with food worth over 7 million euros. Worten Team: is a recycling awareness programme developed by Worten, which for each tonne of waste electrical and electronic equipment collected in Worten stores and from customer’s homes, Worten in turn donates new equipment to social solidarity institutions throughout the country. This has allowed Worten to support more than 2,000 NGOs, since 2009, with the donation of new equipment valued at €2M (Retail Price). Doar é Receber (Giving is Receiving): Zippy has joined the Heat the Street civil movement, which aims to collect warm clothes to deliver to those who need it most. An initiative that was started in 2015 and quickly became a solidarity chain that has already reached several cities throughout the country. For every sweater donated, Zippy offers a direct discount of 20% on the purchase of a new Zippy jacket, leading to the collection of about 750 coats in the Zippy stores, which were distributed on December 15th at an event held on Av. Liberdade, in Lisbon. 6.1 Involvement through volunteering We believe that our volunteering initiatives enable our employees and teams to experience different realities, to face new challenges and to broaden their horizons, often fostering creativity and innovation. In addition, it increases the close involvement with the communities where we operate, leading to a positive impact on their quality of life. As such, in 2012 we created the Sonae Activshare programme, responsible for consolidating and coordinating all of Sonae's social responsibility and volunteer initiatives, involving all employees of the various companies in the group. In 2018, 1,360 volunteers were involved in Sonae Activshare, -16% than in 2017, which was also reflected in volunteer hours, with a decrease of 12%. This reduction is due to the fact that, in 2017, a series of actions were organised to respond to emergency situations (fires) that resulted in the mobilisation of a large number of employees. These initiatives did not take place in 2018, given their exceptional nature. With the purpose of reinforcing its relevance and elevating its positioning, which is natural due to its level of maturity, in 2019, we will reshape the programme in order to adjust Sonae Activshare to the new strategic challenges: to focus increasingly on our performance in education through volunteering skills. We also intend to measure the impact of the main programmes implemented to incorporate this analytical component into the continuous improvement of the programme. 034 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 6.2 Supporting our people The Sonae Group has a universe of more than 45 thousand employees, who, naturally, have sometimes found themselves at risk or in a vulnerable situation. For this purpose, since September 2013, we have had the programme Somos Sonae in place. This initiative aims to provide support, of an exceptional and temporary nature to our employees and their families. A specialised and multidisciplinary team from the Portuguese Red Cross is mobilised to analyse any requests for support received. After an initial assessment, a support plan is developed and implemented, tailored according to the specific situation of each of our employees, with support provided in different ways. All processes are managed and monitored to ensure the privacy of employees and their families. In 2018, through this programme, we supported 105 employees, reaching 191 people, with an investment of 155 thousand euros. Again, bearing in mind that our people are out target audience, as part of the celebration of the 25 th anniversary of the Maia Distribution Centre (MDC), in 2015, the Solidarity Logistics initiative was launched. This programme has been gradually increasing its impact on the lives of the employees it reaches. Today, it is a programme consisting of a set of actions that are developed from the resources gathered through the Solidarity Bazaar organisation, a bazaar where employees can purchase, for a nominal fee, various Sonae brand products donated by the company. The solidarity bazaar took place between November and December 2018, in seven venues Maia, Azambuja, SOHI, Lumiar, Carregado, Guia and Água de Pena. The total revenue, about 65 thousand euros, was donated to three initiatives: • The School Manuals scholarship, which consists of lending school textbooks to the children of school age of the Logistics’ employees, between Year 7 and Year 12. By 2018, there were about 1,500 school textbooks circulating, reaching 200 families. • The Colega Mudámos-te a Casa initiative, a project to renovate the homes of the most disadvantaged employees, leading to the improvement of their well-being and that of their families. For 2018/19, 14 projects are planned, of which 9 have already been implemented. The others are scheduled for the first quarter of 2019. • Junior Club, a week of recreational and educational activities to occupy the summer vacations of the employees' children. The last edition took place in 11 cities, with 78 children involved from the ages of 6 to 12 188 employees’ children, if logistics, operations and structural support are considered. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 035 7. GRI Supplement Sonae 100% sonae mc food retail 100% sonae rp retail properties 50% maxmat DIY retail 100% worten electronics retail 100% sonae s&f sports and fashion retail* 90% sonae im investment management 100% sonae fs financial services 70% sonae sierra retail real estate developer, owner and manager NOS 23% (equity consolidated) telecoms portZone, Sprinter, JD and Size? belong to the Iberian Sports Retail Group (ISRG), in which Sonae holds 30%. In relation to Salsa, which is part of Sonae S&F, we only report data from the Spanish market. 036 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 GRI TABLE FOR THE OPTION “IN ACCORDANCE” – CORE GRI 102 – GENERAL DISCLOSURES UNGC SDG Disclosures Localisation Verification Princi ples ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the Sonae SGPS V organisation 102-2 Activities, brands, Sonae Group https://www.sonae.pt/en/sonae/the-group-and-our-businesses/ products and V services 102-3 Location of Sonae SGPS, SA’s headquarters are located in Lugar de Espido, Via Norte Maia-Portugal. V headquarters 102-4 Location of https://www.sonae.pt/en/sonae/where-we-are-in-the-world/ V operations 102-5 Ownership and About this report V legal form 102-6 Markets served https://www.sonae.pt/en/sonae/where-we-are-in-the-world/ V 102-7 Scale of the Sonae Group V organisation 102-8 Information on Inequalities and inclusive development Below, we present supplementary information on this indicator: employees and V 6 8 other workers Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae Sonaecom 2018 Sonae Sierra RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) No. Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Permanent 9,379 19,733 29,112 933 455 1,388 490 505 995 contracts Temporary 5,041 8,533 13,574 63 37 100 3 6 9 contracts Fixed term 18 35 53 contracts Total 14,420 28,266 42,686 996 492 1,488 511 546 1,057 Full-time 11,246 20,483 31,729 996 492 1,488 510 528 1,038 Part-time 3,177 7,780 10,957 0 0 0 Permanent 1 13 14 Part-time Temporary 0 5 5 Part-time Total 14,423 28,263 42,686 996 492 1,488 511 546 1,057 Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 037 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonaecom Sonae Sierra Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) Permanent Temporary Permanent Temporary Total Total Female Male Total Contract Contract Contract Contract Portugal 27,280 12,866 40,146 910 48 958 261 204 465 Germany 35 36 71 Algeria 1 1 Brazil 370 370 69 7 76 141 184 325 China 36 20 56 Colombia 8 8 2 2 Egypt 22 1 23 Spain 1,340 701 2,041 301 39 340 51 35 86 USA 24 24 France 41 10 51 Greece 6 3 9 Netherlands 1 1 England 2 2 Italy 3 3 27 22 49 Luxembourg 9 9 Malaysia 8 3 11 Morocco 4 8 12 Mexico 1 1 44 2 46 Romania 14 9 23 Russia 5 5 Turkey 4 4 7 6 13 Total 29,112 13,574 42,686 1,388 100 1,488 546 511 1,057 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae Sonaecom Sonae Sierra RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) No. 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Permanent 28,408 29,112 1,222 1,388 980 995 contracts Temporary 13,084 13,574 79 100 14 9 contracts Fixed term 67 53 contracts Total 41,492 42,686 1,301 1,488 1,061 1,057 Full-time 30,620 31,729 1,301 1,488 1,045 1,038 Part-time 10,872 10,957 0 0 Permanent Part 14 14 Time Temporary Part 2 5 Time Total 41,492 42,686 1,301 1,488 1,061 1,057 038 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 We consider the Sustainable Supply Chain a key dimension for our performance, as it has an impact on all the action axes that we define. Together with our suppliers and partners, we aim to adhere to the principles of sustainable development. In this regard, throughout the report, in the various chapters we refer to the supply chain. Additionally, vide responses to the indicators: “204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers”; “304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity”; 102-9 Supply chain V “308-1 – New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria”; “407-1 – Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk”; “408-1 – Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour”; “409-1 – Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour”; “414-1 – New suppliers that were screened using social criteria”. Significant changes to the In 2018, the agreement to merge SportZone with Sprinter and the organisation and its supply British group JD Sports for the Iberian Peninsula was concluded, as 102-10 V well as the agreement with the Grosvenor group for the acquisition chain of a 20% stake in Sonae Sierra, SGPS, SA. Corporate Governance Report 2018 Precautionary Principle or 102-11 V C. Internal Organisation: IIIInternal Control and Risk Management: approach 55.; IVInvestor Relations: 56-58 Sustainability at the core of our DNA In addition, we subscribe to the following policies and commitments: • Environmental Policy 102-12 External initiatives • Sustainable Fishing Policy V • Retail Environmental Action Programme • European Code of Conduct of Good Practice in the Food Supply Chain 102-13 Membership of associations Partner Organisations V Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 039 STRATEGY Message from the senior 102-14 Message from the Executive Commission V decision maker Sustainability at the core of our DNA Key impacts, risks and 102-15 Corporate Governance Report 2018 V opportunities C. Internal Organisation: IIIInternal Control and Risk Management ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Sustainability at the core of our DNA Ensuring that all our activity is governed by the faithful application of the principles of ethics and trust defined is a concern common to the entire Sonae Group. With this purpose in mind, we have developed Values, principles, standards Sonae’s Code of Ethics and Conduct which defines the ethical 102-16 V 10 16 and norms of behaviour standard by which we are governed. To ensure its implementation, compliance and monitoring, an Ethics Committee was appointed by the Board of Directors. More information on Sonae's values, codes and principles is available at www.sonae.pt GOVERNANCE Sustainability at the core of our DNA Corporate Governance Report 2018 102-18 Governance structure V B. Governing Bodies and Committees: I– Shareholders’ General Meeting: 12.3-14; II– Management and Supervision: 15-26 Sustainability at the core of our DNA Consulting stakeholders on Corporate Governance Report 2018 102-21 economic, environmental V and social topics B. Governing Bodies and Committees: IIManagement and Supervision: 21-26 Sustainability at the core of our DNA Composition of the highest Corporate Governance Report 2018 102-22 V governance body and its committees B. Governing Bodies and Committees: IIManagement and Supervision: 19-21 Corporate Governance Report 2018 Chair of the highest 102-23 V governance body B. Governing Bodies and Committees: IShareholders’ General Meeting: 12.3-14; IIManagementand Supervision: 15-21 Corporate Governance Report 2018 Nominating and selecting of 102-24 V the highest governance body B. Governing Bodies and Committees: IIManagement and Supervision: 21 Corporate Governance Report 2018 Conflicts of interest 102-25 C. Internal Organisation: IArticles of Association: 48; IIReporting of V Irregularities (whistleblowing): 49; IIIInternal Control and Risk Management: 51-52 Corporate Governance Report 2018 Evaluating the highest 102-28 governance body’s V B. Governing Bodies and Commissions: IIManagement and performance Supervision: 24-25 – 30-31. 040 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Sustainability at the core of our DNA Identification and managing Corporate Governance Report 2018 102-29 V economic, environmental and social impacts B. Governing Bodies and Commissions: IIManagement and Supervision: 18-29; IIIAudit: 30-35 Sustainability at the core of our DNA Review of economic, Corporate Governance Report 2018 102-31 environmental and social V topics B. Governing Bodies and Commissions: IIManagement and Supervision: 18-29; IIIAudit: 30-35 Sustainability at the core of our DNA Communicating critical Corporate Governance Report 2018 102-33 V concerns B. Governing Bodies and Committees: IIManagement and Supervision: 21-26 Corporate Governance Report 2018 D. Remuneration: IPower to establish: 66; IIRemuneration Committee: 67-68; IIIRemuneration Structure: 69-76; IVDisclosure 102-35 Remuneration policies V of Remuneration: 77-82; VAgreements with Remunerative Implications: 8384; VI– Share Attribution Plans or Stock Options: 8588; E. Relevant Transactions with Related Parties: IMechanisms of control procedures: 89-91; IIElements related to transactions: 92 Corporate Governance Report 2017 Stakeholders’ involvement in 102-37 V B. Governing Bodies and Committees: IIManagement and Supervision: remuneration 21-26 The ratios between the total annual compensation of the highest paid individual to the median of the average annual compensation of Annual total compensation 102-38 all employees, except the highest paid, are as follows: Sonae S&F 33; ratio Salsa 10; Worten PT 26; Worten Spain 27.6 and Worten Canary Islands 17.9. The ratio of the percentage increase in the total annual Percentage increase in compensation of the highest paid individual of the organisation to 102-39 annual total compensation the average percentage increase in total compensation for all ratio employees is 0 for Sonae S&F and Salsa, -9 for Worten Portugal and Spain and 2.6 for the Worten Canary Islands. INVOLVEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS List of stakeholder 102-40 Sustainability at the core of our DNA V groups In Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten Collective bargaining the employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 102-41 V 3 8 agreements About 9% of Sonaecom's employees are part of these agreements. At Sonae Sierra, the employees are not covered. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 041 Sustainability at the core of our DNA Identifying and selecting 102-42 V stakeholders Approach to stakeholder 102-43 Sustainability at the core of our DNA V engagement Sustainability at the core of our DNA In 2018, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae FS , Maxmat and Worten registered 135,589 suggestions and complaints from their stakeholders. The Sonae S&F doesn’t include Losan suggestions and complaints. Key topics and concerns 102-44 V raised by stakeholders Regular analyses of the level of customer satisfaction are carried out at Sonaecom (IM & Media) according to existing tools (websites, apps, chats, etc.). Sonae Sierra regularly maintains a customer satisfaction index for shop tenants and visitors. In 2018, shop tenants showed a level of satisfaction of 4.73 and visitors of 4.13, both on a scale of 1 to 5. REPORTING PRACTICE Entities included in the 102-45 consolidated financial About this report V statements About this report New indicators added to the report: • 102-38: Annual total compensation ratio • 102-39: Percentage increase in annual total compensation ratio • 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume • 301-2: Recycled input materials used • 302-2: Energy consumption outside the organisation • 403-1: Workers representation health and safety committees • 410-1: Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures The indicators of the 300 series were widened to include Defining the report content information on Worten Spain & Sonae S&F (including Losan and 102-46 V Salsa Spain). and topic Boundaries The indicators of the 200 and 400 series that were widened to include information on Worten Spain & Sonae S&F (including Losan and Salsa Spain) were as follows: • 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement • 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised • 403-2: Types and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities The indicators of the 200 and 400 series that were widened to include information on the specifics of the Worten Canary Islands and Sonae S&F Canary Islands, Losan and Salsa Spain were as follows: • 202-2: Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 042 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 • 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover • 401-3: Parental leave • 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee (Salsa Spain ) • 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews (Salsa Spain and Losan) • 405-1: Composition of governance bodies and other indicators of diversity • 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of men to women • 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures • 419-1: Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 102-47 List of material topics Sustainability at the core of our DNA V 102-48 Restatements of information About this report V 102-49 Changes in reporting About this report V 102-50 Reporting period About this report V 102-51 Date of most recent report March 31st, 2018 V 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual V Contact point for questions 102-53 About this report V regarding the report Claims of reporting in This report was prepared according to the GRI Standards: Core 102-54 accordance with the GRI V Standards Option 102-55 GRI content index Present table V 102-56 External assurance About this report V Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 043 SPECIFIC STANDARD CONTENTS UNGC SDG Verifi Disclosures Localisation cation Principles GRI 200 – ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES GRI 201 – ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Direct economic 2017 2018 value generated and distributed (€) Economic value 6,503,753,691 6,795,001,763 generated Revenues 6,503,753,691 6,795,001,763 Economic value 6,301,803,089 6,543,216,569 distributed 2 Operational Costs 5,407,867,988 5,576,254,389 5 Direct economic value Salaries and 764,191,618 800,223,988 201-1 V 7 generated and distributed employee benefits 8 Payments to 115,767,432 131,605,729 9 investors Payments to the 4,359,495 24,132,462 State Donations and other 9,616,555 community 11,000,000 investments Accumulated 201,950,602 251,785,195 economic value Financial implications and other risks and 201-2 opportunities for the CO2 and climate change V 13 organisation due to climate change Defined benefit plan 201-3 obligations and other Sonae does not have a pension fund. V retirement plans In 2018, Sonae received 36,389,926€. The figures indicated Financial assistance refer to amounts received in relation to tax credits. 201-4 V received from government It should be noted that the Government is not part of the shareholder structure of the company. GRI 202 PRESENÇA NO MERCADO Proportion of senior 90% of Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Maxmat, Sonae RP, 202-2 management hired from Sonae FS, Worten and Sonaecom (IM & Media) senior V 6 8 management are hired from the local community. the local community 044 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 GRI 203 – INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA topic and its Boundary Management Approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Indirect The management approach 103-2 Economic Impacts (vide chapters Nature and Biodiversity, and its components Inequalities and Inclusive Development and Community Support). Evolution of the Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of 103-3 indicators associated with this aspect and reports them in management approach this Report (vide indicators presented below). 2 Sustainability at the core of our DNA 5 Infrastructure investments Nature and Biodiversity 203-1 V 7 and services supported Inequalities and Inclusive Development 9 Community Support 11 1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA 2 Nature and Biodiversity 3 Significant indirect 203-2 V economic impacts Inequalities and Inclusive Development 8 Community Support 10 17 GRI 204 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA topic and its Boundary Management Approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Procurement Practices (vide chapters Nature and Biodiversity, The management approach 103-2 Inequalities and Inclusive Development and Charity and GRI V and its components Table Indicators 308-1; 407-1; 408-1; 409-1; 412-2, 412-3 and 414-1). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of Evolution of the 103-3 indicators associated with this aspect and reports them in management approach this Report (vide indicators presented below). 2018 Costs with foreign Proportion of spending on 18% 204-1 suppliers (%) V 12 local suppliers Costs with national 82% suppliers (%) Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 045 GRI 205 – ANTI-CORRUPTION Sonae implements the international methodology Enterprise Risk Management Integrated Framework (COSO) in its risk Operations assessed for risk management process, which enables the identification of 205-1 different types of risks and threats to the development of the V 10 16 related to corruption business, at both the strategic and operational level. As the risk of corruption was not identified as a priority risk for the business, no assessments were carried out in this regard. Sonae’s Code of Conduct and Ethics for Portugal and Spain, Communication and which includes anti-corruption policies, is communicated in training about antithe induction training to 100% of the employees. 205-2 corruption V 10 16 Additionally, Sonae has a Suppliers’ Code of Conduct and policies and procedures Ethics, which is an annex to the general supply contracts. The codes are available on Sonae's website. Training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 2017 2018 No. of top executives who received training in anti-corruption 17 62 training No. of employees who received anti-corruption training 21,843 44,994 Note: all training participants were included, regardless of if they were active on December 31st, 2018. Confirmed incidents of 205-3 corruption and actions There were no registered cases of corruption in 2018. V 10 16 taken GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES GRI 301 – MATERIALS Explication of the materials 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA topics and its Boundary Management Approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to the The management approach 103-2 Materials (vide chapters Nature and Biodiversity, CO2 and its components and Climate Change and Plastic). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of Evolution of the 103-3 the indicators associated with this topic and reports management approach them in this Report (vide indicators presented below). Plastic Indicator reported for activity in Spain. 8 Materials used by weight Worten has subcontracted its logistics activity in Spain. 301-1 V 7 and 8 or volume In the case of MO and Zippy, logistics are managed 12 from Portugal. Information is not available for Losan and Salsa. Recycled input materials 301-2 Not applicable, considering indicator 301-1. used Reclaimed products and 8 301-3 Plastic V 8 their packaging materials 12 046 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 GRI 302 ENERGY (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA Management Approach topic and its Boundary The management approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to the Energy 103-2 and its components (vide chapters CO2 and Climate Change). V Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evolution of the 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in this management approach Report (vide indicators presented below). CO2 and Climate Change 7 Notes: for the specific case of Salsa Spain the electricity 8 Energy consumption within 302-1 consumption values were estimated based on the annual cost V 7 and 8 the organisation of electricity and a sample of invoices. 12 13 Energy consumption In Spain, Worten has subcontracted its logistics activity, with 302-2 outside the organisation an electricity consumption of 665.7 MWh in 2018. 7 8 302-3 Energy intensity CO2 and Climate Change V 8 12 13 Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonaecom Sonae Sierra Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) Energy intensity 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total energy consumption (GJ) 2,130,963 2,228,881 17,172 18,847 Business turnover (M€) 5,434 5,801 140 169.1 Energy intensity ratio (GJ/M€) 392 384 123 111 Shopping centres Energy intensity ratio (kWh/m2 of 698 676 common areas) 7 8 Reduction of energy 302-4 CO2 and Climate Change V 8 and 9 consumption 12 13 7 Reductions in energy 8 302-5 requirements of products CO2 and Climate Change V 8 and 9 and services 12 13 GRI 303 – WATER Manage Explanation of the material topic and ment 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA V Approac its Boundary h Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 047 The management approach and its Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to 103-2 components Water (vide chapter Nature and Biodiversity). Sonae carries out the measurement and Evaluation of the management monitoring of the indicators associated with this 103-3 approach topic and reports them in this Report (vide indicators presented below). 7 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Nature and Biodiversity V and 6 8 Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Maxmat e Sonaecom Worten (IM & Media) 2017 2018 2017 2018 Water withdrawal by source Underground withdrawal (m3) 11,333 13,030 Municipal water supply (m3) 718,059 747,409 4,608 5,278 Total water consumption (m3) 729,392 760,439 4,608 5,278 Water consumption per store area Store area (1,000 m2) 716 1,109 Water consumption per store area (m3/m2) 1.03 0.69 Note: Sonaecom (IM & Media) includes the water consumption of the offices where the supply services are provided directly to Sonae and for which we receive detailed consumption information for the payment of rent. Sonae Sierra 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Water withdrawal Excluding tenants Water reallocation for tenants Total Underground withdrawal (m3) 299,051 326,253 245,079 241,203 544,130 567,456 Rainwater (m3) 30,480 26,694 30,480 26,694 Public supply network (m3) 653,981 668,779 712,206 693,764 1,366,188 1,362,543 Other sources of withdrawal (m3) 338 476 338 476 Mix of water sources (m3) 76,122 78,540 4,493 17,006 80,615 95,546 Grey water (m3) 23,785 27,800 23,785 27,800 Treated wastewater (m3) 87,266 92,019 87,266 92,019 Total water consumption (m3) 1,171,023 1,220,561 961,778 951,972 2,132,801 2,172,534 Water consumption per m2 of shopping centre areas, bathrooms, own portfolio and number of visitors Water consumption per mall and 4.6 4.5 toilet area (m3/m2) Water consumption per common 2.5 2.5 area (excluding tenants) (m3/m2) Water consumption by number of 6 6 visits (l / visitor) Water consumption by number of 3.3 3.4 visits (excluding tenants) (l / visitor) Notes: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational throughout the reporting year. It was not possible to obtain the values for Portimão Retail Centre, in Portugal, so they were not included. The Albufeira Retail Park was also not included in the consumption indicators per visit, as there is no footfall system in place and the number of visitors is not known. 048 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 6 Water recycled and 303-3 Nature and Biodiversity V 8 8 reused 12 GRI 304 BIODIVERSITY (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the 103-1 material topic and its Sustainability at the core of our DNA Management Approach Boundary The management Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Biodiversity (vide chapter 103-2 approach and its V Nature and Biodiversity). components Evolution of the Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the indicators 103-3 management associated with this topic and reports them in this report (vide the indicators approach presented below) Operational sites Nature and Biodiversity owned, leased, managed in, or 6 Sonae does not own any facilities in areas classified as habitats rich in adjacent to, biodiversity. It should be noted that, in the specific case of Sonae Sierra, it is 304-1 protected areas and V 8 14 committed to minimising the loss of biodiversity in developing projects and areas of high existing assets, promoting the use of previously developed land or biodiversity value 15 industrialised land for new projects and protecting and improving biodiversity outside protected in existing installations. areas Significant impacts 6 of activities, 304-2 products and Nature and Biodiversity V 8 14 services on biodiversity 15 Habitats protected Nature and Biodiversity 6 or restored 304-3 V 8 14 In 2018, there were no operations carried out leading to changes in the surrounding habitats that would result in their restoration. 15 GRI 305 EMISSIONS (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the 103-1 material topics Sustainability at the core of our DNA Management Approach and its Boundary The management Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Emissions (vide chapters V 103-2 approach and its CO2 and Climate Change chapters). components Evaluation of the Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the indicators 103-3 management associated with this topic and reports them in this Report (vide indicators approach presented below). Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 049 3 12 Direct (Scope 1) GHG 305-1 CO2 and Climate Change V 7 and 8 13 emissions 14 15 3 12 Energy indirect 305-2 (Scope 2) GHG CO2 and Climate Change V 7 and 8 13 emissions 14 15 3 12 Energy indirect 305-3 (Scope 3) GHG CO2 and Climate Change V 7 and 8 13 emissions 14 15 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonaecom Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) 2017 2018 2017 2018 305 -1 GHG Emissions (Scope 1), by source Emissions associated with the consumption of natural gas – Stores (t 674 908 0 0 CO2e) Emissions associated with the 110 62 0 0 consumption of propane (t CO2e) Emissions associated with the 313 315 0 0 consumption of diesel Stores (t CO2e) Emissions associated with the consumption of diesel contracted fleet 29,139 32,350 896 933 (t CO2e) Emissions associated with the consumption of petrol contracted fleet 0 0 15 17 (t CO2e) Emissions associated with the consumption of diesel employees’ 7,224 7,750 0 0 vehicles (t CO2e) Emissions associated with the consumption of petrol employees’ 30 45 0 0 vehicles (t CO2e) Emissions associated with the consumption of natural gassupply 0 0 0 0 fleet’s vehicles Total direct GHG emissions (t CO2e) 37,491 41,430 911 950 305 – 2 GHG Emissions (Scope 2), by source Emissions associated with electricity 220,684 174,146 269 332 consumption (t CO2e) – market based Emissions associated with electricity 126,753 128,918 381 470 consumption (t CO2e) – location based 050 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 305 – 3 GHG Emissions (Scope 3), by source Emissions related to energy recovery (t 102 179 CO2e) Emissions related to organic recovery (t 230 241 CO2e) Emissions related to sanitary landfill (t 7,955 8,454 CO2e) Total GHG emissions (Scope 3) (t CO2e) 8,287 8,875 Emission Factors Energy Unit Factor Factor Source (2018) 2017 2018 kg Natural gas 56.1 56.1 CO2/GJ 2017: APA (2017) Portuguese National Inventory Report on Greenhouse Gases 1990kg 2015 Propane 63.1 63.1 CO2/GJ 2018: APA (2018) Portuguese National Inventory Report on Greenhouse Gases 1990kg 2016 (pg. 189) Diesel 74.1 74.1 CO2/GJ https://unfccc.int/documents/65569 kg Petrol 69.3 69.3 CO2/GJ 2017: Mix de: Endesa; Galp Electricity http://www.galpenergia.com/PT/ProdutosServicos/Eletricidade-Gas-NaturalMarket Based Livre/Centro-de-informacao/A-nossa-Energia/Paginas/Rotulagem_2017.aspx; Elergone; EEM https://www.eem.pt/media/323353/evol_mad_11_2017.pdf (Sonae MC, (kg 136.1 104.8 Sonae CO2/GJ) 2018: Mix de: Endesa; Galp Sports & http://www.galpenergia.com/PT/ProdutosServicos/Eletricidade-Gas-NaturalFashion, Livre/Centro-de-informacao/A-nossa-Energia/Paginas/Rotulagem_2017.aspx; Worten) Elergone; EEM https://www.eem.pt/media/323353/evol_mad_11_2017.pdf 2017: Mix de: EDA http://www.eda.pt/Regulacao/Rotulagem; EEM Electricity https://www.eem.pt/me Market (kg 131.9 105.6 dia/323353/evol_mad_11_2017.pdf; Elergone – Based ( CO2/GJ) Maxmat) 2018: Mix de: EDA http://www.eda.pt/Regulacao/Rotulagem; EEM https://www.eem.pt/media/323353/evol_mad_11_2017.pdf; Elergone Electricity 2017: Elergone Market (kg 137.2 105.6 Based CO2/GJ) 2018: Mix de: EDA http://www.eda.pt/Regulacao/Rotulagem; EEM (Sonae RP) https://www.eem.pt/media/323353/evol_mad_11_2017.pdf; Elergone Electricity 2017: EDP -http://www.edpsu.pt/pt/origemdaenergia/Pages/OrigensdaEnergia.aspx Market (kg 55.2 55.2 Based CO2/GJ) 2018: EDP http://www.edpsu.pt/pt/origemdaenergia/Pages/OrigensdaEnergia.aspx (Sonaecom) Electricity Spain (kg 108.33 2018: Endesa emission factor assumed: 0.39 kg CO2/kWh based CO2/GJ) market Electricity – Portugal (kg International Energy Agency (2015). CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2015 78.2 78.2 based CO2/GJ) Edition. Portugal Electricity – 2018: Defra (2018) UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting: Spain (kg 122.2 https://www.carbonfootprint.com/docs/2018_conversion_factors_2018_based CO2/GJ) _full_set__for_advanced_users__v01-00.xls location Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 051 Type of Unit Factor Factor Source (2018) Treatment 2017 2018 Sanitary t CO2/t 2017: DEFRA (2017). Greenhouse gas reporting Conversion factors 2017 0.589 0.589 Landfill waste (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversionEnergy t CO2/t factors-2017) 0.0218 0.0214 Recovery waste 2018: DEFRA (2017). Greenhouse gas reporting Conversion factors 2017 Organic t CO2/t 0.0218 0.0214 (https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversionRecovery waste factors-2017) Sonae Sierra 2017 2018 305-1 GHG Emissions (Scope 1), by source Emissions associated with the consumption of natural gas (t CO2e) 9,227 8,723 Emissions associated with the consumption of LPG (t CO2e) 11 8 Emissions associated with the consumption of fuels by contracted fleet 936 941 (petrol, diesel and ethanol) (t CO2e) Emissions associated to leaks (t CO2e) 1,758 406 Total direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (t CO2e) 11,933 10,079 305-2 GHG Emissions (Scope 2), per source Emissions associated with electricity consumption (t CO2e) 12,391 12,127 Emissions associated with electricity consumption for the cooling of 5,669 5,078 water (t CO2e) Emissions associated with electricity consumption for the heating of 1,210 1,111 water (t CO2e) Total emissions (t CO2e) 19,271 18,316 305-3 GHG Emissions (Scope 3), by source Emissions from tenant’s electricity consumption (t CO2e) 115,405 12,1266 Emissions related to air travel (t CO2e) 1,699 2,040 Emissions related to train travel (t CO2e) 13 12 Emissions related to hotel stays (t CO2e) 137 83 Emissions related to employees' business trips (t CO2e) 1,094 1,082 Emissions from shopping centre visitors (t CO2e) 604,375 603,012 Emissions from waste (t CO2e) 2,428 2,393 Total GHG emissions (Scope 3) (t CO2e) 725,150 729,887 Notes: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational during the full reporting year, with the exception of Portimão Retail Centre in Portugal, and all corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo), with the exception of fleet fuel, which included all corporate offices (Lisbon, Maia, São Paulo, Milan, Madrid, Dusseldorf and Bucharest), due to the materiality of these emissions. Emissions in tonnes of CO 2, equivalent (t CO2e) refer to emissions from energy sources over which Sonae Sierra has financial control. For information on Sonae Sierra's 2017 and 2018 emission factors, please refer to Sonae Sierra's Sustainability Report for the respective years. 13 305-4 GHG emissions intensity CO2 and Climate Change V 8 14 15 Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS Sonaecom Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) 2017 2018 2017 2018 GHG emissions intensity Total GHG emissions (t CO2e) 266,460 224,452 1,180 1,282 Business turnover (M€) 5,435 5,801 140 169.1 GHG emissions intensity ratio (t CO2/M€) 49 39 8 8 052 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Sonae Sierra 2017 2018 GHG emissions intensity Total GHG emissions (t CO2e) 756,353 758,282 Excluding tenants (t CO2e/m2) 0.061 0.055 Including tenants (t CO2e/m2) 0.298 0.302 Notes: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational during the full reporting year, and corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo). For data that exclude tenants, the numerator includes the Scope 1 emissions (excluding emissions associated with natural gas consumed by cogeneration but including the emissions from the hot/cold water produced by cogeneration and consumed on-site), Scope 2 emissions and Scope 3 emissions associated with waste from shopping centres and corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo). As an exception, the emissions associated with the consumption of the fuel fleet are considered for the following corporate offices: Lisbon, Maia, São Paulo, Madrid, Düsseldorf, Bucharest and Milan. The denominator includes the common areas of the shopping centres and the area of the corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo). There is a slight maladjustment between the numerator and the denominator, as the energy consumption in technical areas and the hot/cold water supplied to some tenants is considered, but the consumption of the areas is not. For the data that includes tenants, the same assumptions as above apply but in addition the emissions associated with the consumption of the tenants are included. 13 8 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions CO2 and Climate Change V and 14 9 15 3 7 Emissions of ozone-depleting 305-6 As in 2017, the value is zero. V and 12 substances 8 13 3 12 7 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions V and 13 8 14 15 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonaecom Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and (IM & Media) Worten 2017 2018 2017 2018 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx) and other significant air emissions NOx emissions – Diesel 3.38 3.40 0.00 consumed stores (t) NOx emissions Diesel consumed 314.59 349.26 9.67 10.07 contracted fleet (t) NOx emissions Petrol consumed 0.00 0.00 0.13 0.15 contracted fleet NOx emissions Diesel consumed 78.00 83.68 0.00 employees’ vehicles (t) NOx emissions Petrol consumed 0.26 0.39 0.00 employees’ vehicles (t) Total NOx emissions (t) 396.23 436.72 9.8 10.22 SO2 emissions Diesel consumed 0.89 0.89 0.00 stores (t) Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 053 SO2 emissions Diesel consumed 82.58 91.68 2.54 2.64 contracted fleet (t) SO2 emissions Petrol consumed 0.00 0.00 0.02 0.02 contracted fleet (t) SO2 emissions Diesel consumed 204.74 21.96 0.00 employees’ vehicles SO2 emissions Petrol consumed 0.03 0.05 0.00 employees’ vehicles Total SO2 emissions (t) 288.23 114.59 2.56 2.66 Emission Factors: Energy Unit NOx SO2 Source Diesel kg/GJ 0.8 0.21 IPCC 2006 Petrol kg/GJ 0.6 0.075 IPCC 2006 Sonae Sierra does not report this indicator. GRI 306 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material topic 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA and its Boundary Management Approach Management approach and its Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Waste and 103-2 Components Effluents (vide chapter Plastic). V Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evolution of the management 103-3 indicators associated with this aspect and reports them in approach this Report (vide indicators presented below). Sonae does not have quantitative measurements for waste water in stores. For this reason, and in accordance with best Engineering practices, we operate on the basis that 80% of the consumed water results in waste water. 3 Volume of effluent 2017 2018 discharged (m3) 6 Water discharge by quality and Sonae MC, Sonae 574,234 608,351 306-1 V 8 destination S&F, Sonae RP, 12 Maxmat and Worten 14 Sonaecom (IM & 3,686 4,222 Media) Sonae Sierra does not report this indicator. 3 Waste by type and disposal 306-2 Plastic V 8 6 method 12 Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Maxmat Sonaecom and Worten (IM & Media) 2017 2018 2017 2018 Waste by type and disposal method Hazardous waste (t) 2,134 3,097 Recovery 2,134 3,097 Elimination Non-hazardous waste (t) 69,615 74,568 Recovery 56,106 60,154 Elimination 13,509 14,414 Total volume of waste (t) 71,749 77,665 054 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Waste generated by Sonae activity (t) 64,703 70,536 Waste deposited by the customers at the 6,175 6,200 stores (t) Energy Recovery (t) 8,378 Organic Recovery (t) 11,284 Sanitary Landfill (t) 14,414 Total volume of waste (t) 71,749 77,665 Recovery rate 81% 81% Sonae Sierra 2017 2018 Waste by type and disposal method Hazardous waste (t) 99 77 Anaerobic digestion 0.1 Composting Energy recovery from incineration 11 10 Incineration without energy recovery 1 1 Sanitary Landfill 1 1 Recycling 80 58 Reuse Treatment/Elimination 5 7 Energy recovery 0.4 0.4 WWTP Non-hazardous waste (t) 46,550 47,691 Anaerobic digestion 3,091 3,241 Composting 7,266 7,489 Energy recovery from incineration 3,584 3,582 Incineration without energy recovery 18 27 Sanitary Landfill 8,303 8,103 Recycling 19,622 20,769 Reuse 3 Treatment/Elimination 18 18 Energy recovery 4,339 4,319 WWTP 309 140 Total waste (t) 46,649 47,768 Recycling rate – shopping centres (%) 64% 66% Recycling rate – corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São 75% 87% Paulo) (%) Waste disposal rate in sanitary landfill – shopping centres (%) 18% 17% Waste disposal rate in sanitary landfill – 8% 13% corporate offices (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo) (%) Notes: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational during the reporting year, except Portimão Retail Centre in Portugal. This includes all corporate offices with SHEMS (Lisbon, Maia and São Paulo). The recycling rate includes waste sent for recycling, anaerobic digestion and composting. 3 6 306-3 Significant Spills In 2018, there was no significant spills. V 8 12 14 15 Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 055 GRI 307 – ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Explanation of the material topics 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA and its Boundary Management Approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to The management approach and its Environmental Compliance (vide chapters Nature and 103-2 components V Biodiversity and CO2 and Climate Change). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evaluation of the management 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in this approach Report (vide indicators presented below). Sonae considers a fine to be significant when the total monetary value equals or exceeds 12,000€, since this corresponds to the minimum fine for a serious environmental infringement (Law no. 114/2015, of August Non-compliance with 28th). 307-1 environmental laws and V 8 16 regulations In 2018, we received a fine of 22,000 euros, imposed on a Sonae Sierra centre, resulting from a process of misdemeanour filed by Seixal Town Council regarding noncompliance with the correct disposal of waste. This has been contested by the centre and there is still no final decision. GRI 308 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material topics 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA and its Boundary Management Approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Suppliers The management approach and its 103-2 Environmental Assessment (vide chapter Nature and components V Biodiversity). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evaluation of the management 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in this approach Report (vide indicators presented below). New suppliers that were screened 308-1 Nature and Biodiversity V 8 using environmental criteria In 2018, the suppliers’ assessment and qualification process of Sonae MC, Maxmat and Worten’s own-brand products was reviewed. This consists of a mechanism that has the dual purpose of assessing and qualifying the suppliers who ‘qualify’ to work with Sonae, but also of using audits to identify areas for improvement in their operations. For each supplier of an assessed brand, a Risk Index is created composed of: Quality Index (IQ), which assesses quality indicators such as inspections, incidents, nonconformities, withdrawals and complaint rate, and the Vulnerability Index (IV). The latter is analysed according to geographical origin criteria and includes five criteria: legal & regulatory, labour relations, environment, corruption, child labour, and supplier guarantee through certification and/or audit. Sonae S&F also reviewed its supplier assessment process by investing in the creation of a pool of local quality controllers specifically trained to carry out inspections and audits. At the same time, a supplier's manual consisting of a single document with all the rules to be complied with by the suppliers was developed. This also includes the revised version of Sonae's Code of Ethics and Conduct. The audit framework to be applied by the quality controllers has been reviewed in light of this Code, and includes a set of social, environmental and ethical criteria. This new model will be implemented in 2019. Depending on the result obtained, in any of the methodologies, the supplier and product quality control processes can be adjusted to include the definition of a corrective action plan or, if necessary, supply may be suspended, or the supplier replaced. It is also worth noting that all suppliers receive the Suppliers’ Code of Conduct and, in the qualification phase, depending on the products to be supplied, they may be subjected to pre-tests. 056 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 GRI 400 SOCIAL DISCLOSURES GRI 401 EMPLOYMENT (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explication of the materials 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA Management Approach topics and its boundary The management approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Employment 103-2 and its components (vide chapter Inequalities and Inclusive Development). V Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evolution of the 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in this management approach Report (vide indicators presented below). New employee hires and 401-1 Inequalities and Inclusive Development employee turnover Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Maxmat and Worten Screened suppliers based on environmental criteria S&F (MO, Fresh Non-food S&F (Deeply Food retail Wells Zippy and Worten Maxmat Products retail and Berg) Losan) Total New Total New Total New Total New Total New Total New Total New Total New Total suppliers (no.) 302 32 405 39 299 37 57 8 368 82 70 12 118 12 73 6 National 260 31 213 17 109 9 23 2 148 30 28 2 8 0 42 5 Foreign 42 1 192 22 190 28 34 6 220 52 42 10 110 12 31 1 Total qualified suppliers 271 5 379 22 237 9 42 3 0 0 0 0 98 0 29 0 (no.) National 229 4 199 9 92 1 16 1 0 0 0 0 8 0 16 0 Foreign 42 1 180 13 145 8 26 2 0 0 0 0 90 0 13 0 Percentage of qualified 90% 16% 94% 56% 79% 24% 74% 38% 0% 0% 0% 0% 83% 0% 40% 0% suppliers (%) National 88% 13% 93% 53% 84% 11% 70% 50% 0% 0% 0% 0% 100% 0% 38% 0% Foreign 100% 100% 94% 59% 76% 29% 76% 33% 0% 0% 0% 0% 82% 0% 42% 0% Total audits conducted (no.) 81 1 78 3 186 3 26 1 10 0 0 0 64 0 13 0 National 77 1 55 3 46 0 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0 Foreign 4 0 23 0 140 3 19 1 10 0 0 0 64 0 8 0 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae Sonaecom Sonae Sierra RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) No. Total New hires Departures Total New hires Departures Total New hires Departures Male 13,844 9,094 8,751 996 231 185 511 64 65 Female 27,193 13,394 12,720 492 98 58 546 74 77 Total 41,037 22,488 21,471 1,488 329 243 1,057 138 142 <30 years old 15,485 17,963 16,118 375 160 89 From 30 to 50 20,958 4,194 4,749 982 160 144 years old >50 years old 4,594 331 604 131 9 10 Total 41,037 22,488 21,471 1,488 329 243 0 0 0 < 35 years old 291 94 74 From 35 to 44 425 36 49 Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 057 From 45 to 54 247 8 15 From 55 to 64 88 0 2 > 64 years old 6 0 2 Total 1,057 138 142 Portugal 38,935 21,193 20,027 958 189 126 465 44 44 Brazil 0 0 0 76 4 4 325 50 54 Spain 2,086 1,295 1,440 340 97 84 86 6 5 The rest of the 17 0 0 114 39 29 181 38 39 world Total 41,037 22,488 21,471 1,488 329 243 1,057 138 142 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae Sonaecom Sonae Sierra Percentage % RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) Total New hires Departures Total New hires Departures Total New hires Departures Male 34% 22% 21% 67% 16% 12% 48% 6% 6% Female 66% 33% 31% 33% 7% 4% 52% 7% 7% Total (%) 100% 55% 52% 100% 22% 16% 100% 13% 13% <30 years old 38% 44% 39% 25% 11% 6% 30-50 years old 51% 10% 12% 66% 11% 10% >50 years old 11% 1% 1% 9% 1% 1% Total (%) 100% 55% 52% 100% 22% 16% 0% 0% 0% < 35 years old 28% 9% 7% From 35 to 44 40% 3% 5% From 45 to 54 23% 1% 1% From 55 to 64 8% 0% 0.2% > 64 years old 1% 0% 0.2% Total 100% 13% 13% Portugal 95% 51.6% 48.8% 64% 13% 8% 44% Brazil 0% 0% 0% 5% 0% 0% 31% Spain 5.1% 3.2% 3.5% 23% 7% 6% 8% The rest of the 0.04% 0% 0% 3% 2% world 8% 17% Total (%) 100% 55% 52% 100% 22% 16% 100% Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae Sonaecom Sonae Sierra RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) No. 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total Employees 39,004 41,037 1,301 1,488 1,061 1,057 New hires 20,257 22,488 257 329 136 138 Percentage of new employee hires (%) 31% 55% 19.8% 22% 13% 13% Departures 18,992 21,471 214 243 144 142 Percentage of turnover (%) 31% 52% 16.4% 16% 14% 13% Notes: Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten’s 2017 category data do not include Worten Canary Islands, MDS Brazil, Salsa, Losan and Go Natural Restaurants. This does not include the members of the Board of Directors. Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten’s 2018 category data do not include MDS Brazil and GO NATURAL Restaurants. This does not include the members of the Board of Directors. Sonae Sierra: This includes all of Sonae Sierra’s direct employees, at the end of the report period. 058 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 5 401-3 Parental Leave V 6 8 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonaecom 2018 Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) No. Male Female Total Male Female Total Total employees entitled to parental leave (no.) 13,844 27,193 41,037 36 18 54 Total employees who benefitted from parental leave (no.) 619 1,569 2,188 36 18 54 Total employees who returned to work after completion of Parental leave (no.) 606 1,484 2,090 36 18 54 Total employees who returned to work after completion of parental leave and continued to work for the Company 12 515 1,156 1,671 16 11 27 months after returning (no.) Take-up rate (%) 4% 6% 5% 100% 100% 100% Rate of return (%) 98% 95% 96% 100% 100% 100% Rate of retention (%) 83% 74% 76% 44% 61% 50% Notes: Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten’s category data do not include MDS Brazil, and GO NATURAL Restaurants. It does not include the members of the Board of Directors. Employees who benefitted from parental leave in 2017 and continued to work 12 months after returning are not included. For this reason, the retention rate may be over 100%, since the denominator refers to the take-up rate in 2018 and not in 2017. Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonaecom Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat (IM & Media) and Worten No. 2017 2018 2017 2018 Take-up rate (%) 5% 5% 100% 100% Rate of return (%) 95% 96% 100% 100% Rate of retention (%) 85% 76% 0% 50% GRI 403 – OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Explanation of the material 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA topic and its boundary Management Approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Occupational The management approach 103-2 Health and Safety (vide chapter Inequalities and Inclusive and its components V Development). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evolution of the 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in this management approach Report (vide indicators presented below). Workers representation 403-1 health and safety There are no health and safety committees at Sonae. committees Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational 3 diseases, lost days, and 403-2 V absenteeism, and total 8 number of work-related fatalities Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 059 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae Sonaecom Sonae Sierra 2018 RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Workable hours by all 25,076,732 49,776,891 74,853,623 1,840,608 909,216 2,749,824 1,825,192 employees (h) Total deaths (no.) 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 Total accidents in the 466 732 1,198 0 0 0 4 workplace (no.) Total accidents during the commute between 47 143 190 1 2 3 2 home and work (no.) Total accidents (no.) 513 875 1,388 1 2 3 6 Rate of accidents (%) 0.002% 0.002% 0.002% 0.000% 0.000% 0.000% 3.29 Total days of absence due to occupational 7,929 13,320 21,249 5 243 248 38 accidents (d) Rate of days lost due to occupational accidents 0.032% 0.027% 0.028% 0.000% 0.027% 0.009% 20.82 (%) Total days of absence due to occupational 220 613 833 0 0 0 0 diseases (d) Rate of occupational 0.001% 0.001% 0.001% 0% 0% 0% 0% diseases (%) Total number of days 8,149 13,933 22,082 5 243 248 38 lost (d) Rate of lost days (%) 0.032% 0.028% 0.030% 0.000% 0.027% 0.009% 20.82 Total hours of absence 815,937 52,752,510 3,574,999 7,317 16,617 23,934 32,507 (h) Absenteeism rate (%) 3.25% 5.45% 4.72% 0% 2% 1% 2% Notes: it is not possible to present the information of indirect employees. For the calculation of lost days, the working days were considered to be the days in which the victims were effectively absent from work. Counting of lost days starts on the 1 st day of absence following the accident, usually from the following day. In the case of accidents, all were considered (accidents involving communication to insurance companies, non-participating accidents that did not involve insurance companies, accidents not in the presence of someone and accidents in the presence of someone). Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonaecom Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat Sonae Sierra % (IM & Media) and Worten 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Rate of accidents 0.002% 0.002% 0% 0% 3.45 3.29 Rate of days lost due to 0.03% 0.028% 0.007% 0.009% occupational accidents Rate of occupational diseases 0.001% 0.001% 0% 0% Rate of lost days 0.03% 0.03% 0.007% 0.009% 41.46 20.82 Absenteeism rate 5% 4.72% 1% 1% 2% 2% Workers with high Sonae has no employees involved in occupational activities with a 3 incidence or high risk of high incidence or high risk of specific/serious diseases. 403-3 V diseases related to their 8 occupation Sonae Sierra does not report this indicator. 060 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 GRI 404 TRAINING AND EDUCATION (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA topic and its boundary Management Approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Training and The management approach 103-2 Education (vide chapter Inequalities and Inclusive and its components V Development). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evolution of the 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in this management approach Report (vide indicators presented below). 4 Average hours of training 404-1 Inequalities and Inclusive Development V 6 5 per year per employee 8 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Sonaecom Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) Male Female Total Male Female Total Total Employees (no.) Top Executive 68 18 86 2 0 2 Management 551 313 864 289 77 366 Middle Management 973 1,207 2,180 628 314 942 Technicians/highly 1,079 1,866 2,945 specialised technicians Middle Management, Technicians/highly 20 42 62 specialised technicians – SALSA Representatives 10,956 23,441 34,397 77 101 178 Total 13,627 26,845 40,472 996 492 1,488 Total hours of training (h) Top Executive 2,103 441 2,545 6 0 6 Management 16,849 10,849 27,698 4,413 1,476 5,889 Middle Management 35,100 60,191 95,291 9,326 4,825 14,151 Technicians/highly 27,722 46,748 74,470 specialised technicians Representatives 353,100 601,515 954.615 4 5 8.82 Total hours Spain* 0 0 29,718 Total 434,874 719,744 1,184,336 13,749 6,306 20,055 Average hours of training by category and gender (h/employee) Top Executive 31 25 30 3 0 3 Management 31 35 32 15 19 16 Middle Management 36 50 44 15 15 15 Technicians/highly 26 25 25 specialised technicians Representatives 32 26 27 0 0 0 Total 32 27 29 14 13 13 Notes: This includes all training participants, regardless of if they are active on December 31 st, 2018. The average hours by functional group is only in relation to Portugal’s employees. In 2018, the number of employees and training hours of Salsa in Spain was considered, however this was not considered in 2017. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 061 Sonae Sierra Total Employees (no.) Average number of hours of Number of Employees Number of hours of training training for year, per employee, by category Global Senior Executive, Senior Executive, 29 1,070 37 Executive Senior Manager 60 2,087 35 Manager 108 2,858 26 Team Leader 124 3,670 30 Project Team Specialist 177 5,868 31 Team Member 559 10,732 19 Total 1,057 26,285 25 Female 546 12,731 23 Male 511 13,554 27 Total 1,057 26.285 25 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Sonaecom (IM & Media) Sonae Sierra Maxmat and Worten 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total employees (no.) 40,905 40,472 1,301 1,488 1,061 1,057 Total training hours (h) 1,022,325 1,184,336 32,246 20,055 32,728 26,285 Average number of hours of 25 29 25 13 31 24.9 training (h/employee) Note: This includes all of Sonae Sierra’s direct employees, at the end of the report period. Programmes for upgrading employee skills 404-2 and transition Inequalities and inclusive development V 8 assistance programmes Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes 2018 Training Programmes Total Actions (no.) Total Hours (h) Conferences & Seminars 278 16,417 Schools/Academies 101,999 614,011 Spain 0 29,927 Management 34 2,488 Management & Leadership 4,195 60,701 Continuous Improvement 4,144 22,978 Occupational Health and Safety 31,037 118,667 Sustainability 7,510 8,058 Technical 51,786 238,279 Transversal 36,971 43,496 Notes: This includes all training participants, regardless of if they are active on December 31st, 2018. Sonaecom (IM & Media) Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes 2018 Training Programmes Total Actions (no.) Total Hours (h) Behavioural 13 866 Conferences & Seminars 32 1,299 Management & Leadership 12 764 062 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Continuous Improvement 9 416 Occupational Health and Safety 24 297 Sustainability 1 19 Technical 254 16,028 Transversal 39 366 Notes: This includes all training participants, regardless of if they are active on December 31st, 2018. . Sonae Sierra Programmes for improving employee skills 2018 Training Programmes Total Hours (h) Total Hours (%) Behavioural 4,351 17% Conferences & Seminars 2,746 10% Management & Leadership 19,188 73% Total 26,285 100% At Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Percentage of employees 100% of the employees received performance assessment and career receiving regular 5 404-3 development reviews. At Sonae S&F Spain, 18% of the employees performance and V 6 8 career development received performance assessment. At Sonaecom (IM) the value was 82%. reviews Sonae Sierra does not report this indicator. GRI 405 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES (MATERIAL ASPECT) GRI 406 NON-DISCRIMINATION (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material Management Approach 103-1 topic and its Sustainability at the core of our DNA boundary Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Diversity and Equal The management approach and 103-2 Opportunities (vide chapter Inequalities and Inclusive Development and V its components Community Support). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the indicators Evolution of the management 103-3 associated with this topic and reports them in this Report (vide indicators approach presented below). Diversity of governance bodies 5 405-1 Inequalities and Inclusive Development V 6 and employees 8 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Sonaecom Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) Age Group Male Female Total Age Group Male Female Total Percentage of employees by functional category (%) Top Executive (%) < 30 years old 0% 0% 0% < 30 years old 0% 0% 0% From 30 to 50 From 30 to 50 years 40% 13% 52% years 50% 0% 50% old old ≥ 50 years old 40% 8% 48% ≥ 50 years old 50% 0% 50% Total 79% 21% 100% Total 100% 0% 100% Management (%) < 30 years old 0% 0% 0% < 30 years old 1% 0% 1% From 30 to 50 From 30 to 50 years 47% 29% 77% years 67% 18% 85% old old ≥ 50 years old 15% 7% 23% ≥ 50 years old 11% 3% 14% Total 63% 37% 100% Total 79% 21% 100% Middle Management (%)* < 30 years old 4% 6% 10% From 30 to 50 years 34% 44% 78% old ≥ 50 years old 6% 6% 12% Total 44% 56% 100% Technicians/highly < 30 years old 9% 16% 25% < 30 years old 25% 12% 36% specialised From 30 to 50 From 30 to 50 technicians (%) years 24% 41% 66% years 41% 20% 61% old old Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 063 ≥ 50 years old 3% 6% 9% ≥ 50 years old 1% 2% 3% Total 36% 64% 100% Total 67% 33% 100% *includes Middle < 30 years old 6% 18% 24% Management , From 30 to 50 Technicians/highly years specialised old technicians (%) ≥ 50 years old 26% 50% 76% SALSA Total 0% 0% 100% Representatives (%) < 30 years old 16% 25% 42% < 30 years old 7% 11% 18% From 30 to 50 From 30 to 50 years 13% 34% 47% years 25% 29% 54% old old ≥ 50 years old 3% 8% 11% ≥ 50 years old 12% 16% 28% Total 32% 68% 100% Total 43% 57% 100% Governance bodies (%) < 30 years old 0% 0% 0% < 30 years old 0% 0% 0% From 30 to 50 From 30 to 50 years 33% 0% 33% years 37.5% 12.5% 50% old old ≥ 50 years old 67% 0% 67% ≥ 50 years old 50,0% 00% 50% Total 100% 0% 100% Total 88% 13% 100% Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat Sonaecom and Worten (IM & Media) 2017 2018 2017 2018 Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Top Executive (%) 83% 17% 100% 79% 21% 100% 100% 0% 100% 100% 0% 100% Management (%) 63% 37% 100% 63% 37% 100% 78% 22% 100% 79% 21% 100% Middle Management 45% 55% 100% 45% 55% 100% (%) Technicians/highly 67% 33% 100% specialised 37% 63% 100% 36% 64% 100% technician s (%) Representatives (%) 32% 68% 100% 32% 68% 100% 66% 34% 100% 43% 57% 100% Governance bodies 100% 0% 100% 100% 0% 100% 46% 54% 100% 88% 13% 100% (%) Notes: Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten’s category data do not include MDS Brazil and GO NATURAL Restaurants. This does not include the Board of Directors. Sonae Sierra Percentage of employees by functional category (%) Age Group Female Male Total Global Senior Executive, Senior < 35 years old 0% 0% 0% Executive, Executive From 35 to 44 years old 3% 17% 21% From 45 to 54 years old 10% 38% 48% From 55 to 64 years old 3% 21% 24% > 64 years old 0% 7% 7% Total 17% 83% 100% Senior Manager < 35 years old 0% 0% 0% From 35 to 44 years old 2% 17% 18% From 45 to 54 years old 13% 33% 47% From 55 to 64 years old 7% 25% 32% > 64 years old 0% 3% 3% Total 22% 78% 100% Manager < 35 years old 1% 2% 3% From 35 to 44 years old 18% 22% 40% From 45 to 54 years old 17% 29% 45% From 55 to 64 years old 1% 10% 11% > 64 years old 0% 1% 1% 064 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Total 36% 64% 100% Team Leader < 35 years old 5% 7% 12% From 35 to 44 years old 27% 28% 55% From 45 to 54 years old 16% 11% 27% From 55 to 64 years old 2% 2% 5% > 64 years old 0% 1% 1% Total 50% 50% 100% Project Team Specialist < 35 years old 11% 20% 31% From 35 to 44 years old 26% 21% 47% From 45 to 54 years old 7% 10% 17% From 55 to 64 years old 1% 5% 5% > 64 years old 0% 0% 0% Total 45% 55% 100% Team Member < 35 years old 24% 15% 39% From 35 to 44 years old 24% 15% 38% From 45 to 54 years old 11% 5% 16% From 55 to 64 years old 4% 3% 6% > 64 years old 0% 0% 0% Total 62% 38% 100% 5 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men V 6 8 10 CC, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Sonaecom Maxmat and Worten (IM & Media) 2017 2018 2017 2018 Ratio of average basic salary by functional category (F/M) Top Executives 0.93 1.04 0.00 Management & Senior Management 0.91 0.91 0.9 0.89 Middle Management* 0.9 0.91 0.9 0.92 Technicians/highly specialised technicians 0.87 0.87 * Includes Middle Management, 0.96 Technicians/highly specialised technicians – SALSA Representatives 1 1.00 0.89 0.90 Total 0.92 0.98 0.79 0.80 Average pay ratio by functional category (F/M) Top Executives 0.89 0.99 0.00 Management & Senior Management 0.9 0.90 0.9 0.89 Middle Management* 0.89 0.96 0.9 0.92 Technicians/highly specialised technicians 0.86 0.85 * Includes Middle Management, 1.00 Technicians/highly specialised technicians – SALSA Representatives 0.99 1.00 0.89 0.90 Total 0.89 0.96 0.79 0.80 Note: The monthly base salary (converted to full-time equivalent) includes: All fixed remuneration as of December 31st, 2018. Based on 12 months. Total remuneration included (converted to full-time equivalent): Monthly base salary; Performance bonus, discrepancy allowance and shift allowance as of December 31st, 2018; Variable components calculated based on the last 12 months (January to December 2018); Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 065 Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten’s category data do not include MDS Brazil and GO NATURAL Restaurants. This does not include the Board of Directors. Sonaecom (Sonae IM & Media) Ratio of average basic salary by functional category by country (F/ M) Brazil Spain Egypt USA Mexico Colombia Malaysia England Management 0.90 1.06 0.00 0.87 1.14 0.00 0.32 0.00 Middle Management 0.89 0.97 0.91 0.78 1.01 1.29 0.40 Total 0.90 1.04 0.16 0.84 1.10 0.29 0.33 0.00 Notes: In Australia and England, we only have one employee (one per country), so the calculation of the ratio is not applicable. Also in Ireland, there are only male employees, so, likewise, the calculation of the indicator is not applicable. Incidents of 5 discrimination 406-1 There were no cases of discrimination. V 6 8 and corrective actions taken 16 407 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Operations and At Sonae, there are no operations involving risks in the right to freedom suppliers in which the of association and collective bargaining agreements. right to freedom of In the specific case of Sonae MC, Maxmat and Worten, according to the 407-1 V 3 8 association and audit reports, all suppliers have “Freedom of association: they can be collective bargaining members of institutions / associations that represent their rights” may be at risk accordingly. Sonae Sierra does not report this indicator. 408 CHILD LABOUR At Sonae, as a rule, minors are not admitted into the company. Only exceptionally are minors between the ages of 16 and 18 admitted, and always in compliance with the law. At Sonae MC, Maxmat and Worten if Operations and it is found that a supplier is at significant risk for child labour incidents, the supplier is placed on stand-by and only re-enters after an SA8000 suppliers at significant 8 408-1 audit has been carried out by an accredited institution. V 5 risk for child labour 16 incidents Due to both the locations where we are present and to the technical/technological complexity of the type of activities performed by our employees, Sonaecom has residual risks in terms of child labour. Sonae Sierra does not report this indicator. 409 FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR At Sonae, there is no forced labour. At Sonae MC, Maxamat and Worten if it is found that a supplier is at significant risk for incidents of forced or Operations and compulsory labour, the supplier is placed on stand-by and only re-enters suppliers at significant after an SA8000 audit has been carried out by an accredited institution. 409-1 risk for incidents of Due to both the locations where we are present and to the technical/ V 4 8 forced or compulsory technological complexity of the type of activities performed by our labour employees, Sonaecom has residual risks in terms of forced or compulsory labour. Sonae Sierra does not report this indicator. 066 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 410 – SECURTIY PRACTICES In both Spain and in Portugal, all security staff who work through Security personnel security companies must have a professional identification, which 410-1 trained in human rights requires obtaining and renewing training that includes matters of policies or procedures constitutional/fundamental rights, ethics and deontology. 412 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT Operations that have In 2018, no operation that has been subject to a reassessment of human been subject to human 412-1 rights and/or impact assessment was registered in this regard. V 1 rights reviews or impact assessments In 2018, Sonae, Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Worten, Maxmat, Sonae RP and Sonae FS employees received training related to human rights practices and policies, according to the following table: 2017 2018 Total employees that received formal Employee training on 412-2 training on the policies and procedures of V 1 human rights policies or 21,883 43,596 the organisation regarding Human Rights procedures issues (no.) Total hours dedicated to training on policies and procedures relative to Human 228,485 307,817 Rights aspects that are relevant to operations (no.) Notes: Includes all training participants, independent of if they were active on the 31st December 2017. Significant investment In Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Worten and Maxmat, supply contracts include a 5 agreements and supplier obligation clause that mentions Comply with all applicable norms 412-3 contracts that include and legislation on work carried out by minors, human rights and prohibition of V 6 8 human rights clauses or discrimination against their workers, for whatever reason. . that underwent human 16 rights screening GRI 413 LOCAL COMMUNITIES (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material topic Management Approach 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA and its boundary Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to local The management approach and its 103-2 communities (vide chapter Inequalities and Inclusive components V Development and Community Support). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evolution of the management 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in this approach Report (vide indicators presented below). Inequalities and Inclusive Development and Community Support Operations with local community From the moment a new unit is installed, Sonae ensures the engagement, impact assessments necessary conditions so that it has the minimum negative 413-1 V 1 and development programmes impact on communities. During operation, it develops numerous activities of support to the local community, meeting their different needs. The activities are often carried out in partnership with local entities. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 067 GRI 414 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material topic Management 103-1 Sustainability at the core of our DNA and its boundary The management approach and its Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to Supplier 103-2 components Social Assessment (vide chapter Nature and Biodiversity). V Approach Evolution of the management Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the 103-3 indicators associated with this topic and reports them in this approach Report (vide indicators presented below). New suppliers that were screened 414-1 V 8 using social criteria Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten Screened suppliers based on social criteria labour practices, human rights, with an impact on society S&F (MO, Fresh Non-food S&F (Deeply Food Retail Zippy and Well’s Worten Maxmat 2018 Products retail & Berg) Losan) Total New Total New Total New Total New Total New Total New Total New Total New Total suppliers (no.) 302 32 405 39 299 37 368 82 70 12 57 8 118 12 73 6 National 260 31 213 17 109 9 148 30 28 2 23 2 8 0 42 5 Foreign 42 1 192 22 190 28 220 52 42 10 34 6 110 12 31 1 Total qualified suppliers (no.) 271 5 379 22 235 9 0 0 0 0 42 3 98 0 29 0 National 229 4 199 9 90 1 0 0 0 0 16 1 8 0 16 0 Foreign 42 1 180 13 145 8 0 0 0 0 26 2 90 0 13 0 Percentage of qualified suppliers 90% 16% 94% 56% 79% 24% 0% 0% 0% 0% 74% 38% 83% 0% 40% 0% (%) National (%) 88% 13% 93% 53% 83% 11% 0% 0% 0% 0% 70% 50% 100% 0% 38% 0% Foreign (%) 100% 100% 94% 59% 76% 29% 0% 0% 0% 0% 76% 33% 82% 0% 42% 0% Total audits performed on 81 1 78 3 186 3 10 0 0 0 26 1 64 0 13 0 suppliers (no.) National 77 1 55 3 46 0 0 0 0 0 7 0 0 0 5 0 Foreign 4 0 23 0 140 3 10 0 0 0 19 1 64 0 8 0 Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat e Worten Screened suppliers based on social criteria labour practices, human rights, with an impact on society Fresh Non-food Food Retail S&F Well’s Worten Maxmat 2018 Products Retail 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Total suppliers (no.) 369 302 291 405 305 299 70 48 57 133 118 77 73 Total qualified suppliers (no.) 357 271 288 379 219 235 0 35 42 106 98 17 29 Percentage of qualified suppliers 97% 90% 99% 94% 72% 79% 0% 73% 74% 80% 82% 22% 40% (%) Total audits performed on 99 81 67 78 167 186 10 22 26 99 64 10 13 suppliers (no.) GRI 416 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY (MATERIAL ASPECT) Assessment of the health and safety impacts of products and services 416-1 V 068 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten Categories of significant products and services assessed in terms of health and safety impacts 2018 S&F (MO, Fresh Non-food S&F (Deeply Food Retail Well’s Zippy and Worten Maxmat Products Retail & Berg) Losan) Total categories of significant products and services (no.) 2 1 2 1 7 4 1 1 Total categories of significant products and services that are assessed in terms 2 1 2 1 7 4 1 1 of health and safety impacts (no.) Percentage of significant products and services assessed in terms of health 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% and safety impacts (%) Note: We take into consideration the health and safety impacts of products at various stages of their life cycle. In terms of electronic products, for example, we carry out product image, packaging and instruction development in cooperation with the manufacturer. The entire manufacturing process of this type of product is subjected to various inspections. In terms of food products, we carry out R&D on the products through, for example, the optimisation of their nutritional profile. Sonae Sierra Categories of significant products and services assessed Development/ New Building Management in terms of health and safety impacts Redevelopment Percentage of significant products and services assessed 100% 100% 100% in terms of health and safety impacts (%) Note: This includes all shopping centres owned by Sonae Sierra, operational in the reporting period and all projects under development during the reporting period. GRI 417 MARKETING AND LABELLING (MATERIAL ASPECT) 12 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling V 16 Sonae MC, Sonae S&F, Sonae RP, Sonae FS, Maxmat and Worten Categories of significant products and services assessed in terms of health and safety impacts Food Non Fresh Well´s S&F Worten Maxmat Retail Food Origin of the product or service Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Composition, with particular attention to potentially harmful substances to the Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes environment or to society Safe use of the product or service Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Product elimination and underlying environmental and Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes social impacts Total categories of products with specific labelling (no.) 65 120 11 10 10 Total product categories (no.) 252 148 11 44 89 Percentage of product categories with 0% 0% 26% 81% 100% 23% 11% specific labelling (%) Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 069 Sonae FS is responsible for issuing and managing Cartão Universo, and its credit facility is secured by a credit facility granted and managed by BNP Paribas Personal Finance, S.A. In the area of Pricing and Legal Information of the Universo site, various documents can be consulted and/or downloaded in order to guarantee total transparency and complete information on the procedures associated with Cartão Universo: European Standardised Information Sheet regarding consumer credit; Credit Agreement for the opening of a credit line associated with Cartão Universo; Agreement for the Provision of Payment and Issuing of Electronic Currency Services; Terms and Conditions of Loyalty Programmes; Prices; Pre-Contractual Information on Credit Intermediation; Complaints; Sonae FS and BNP Bank’s Privacy Policies; Sonae’s Code of Ethics and Conduct; Procedure for access and use of Universo Online; Precontractual Information Documents and General Conditions of Universo’s Insurance. GRI 419 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE (MATERIAL ASPECT) Explanation of the material topic 103-1 and its boundary Management Approach Sonae has promoted several initiatives related to The management approach and its Socioeconomic Compliance (vide chapters Nature 103-2 components and Biodiversity and Inequality and Inclusive V Development). Sonae carries out the measurement and monitoring of the Evolution of the management indicators associated with this topic and reports 103-3 approach them in this Report (vide indicators presented below). 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area V 16 Sonae MC, Sonae Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and S&F, Sonae RP, Sonaecom Sonae Sierra economic area Sonae FS, Maxmat (Sonae IM & Media) and Worten Total monetary value of significant fines Economic area (€) 44,178 There were no There were no nonTotal number of non-monetary sanctions (no.) 0 noncompliance compliance issues with Total monetary value of significant fines Social area (labour) (€) 0 issues with laws and laws and regulations of regulations of Total number of non-monetary sanctions (no.) 0 this nature. this nature. Table Key: V – Verified UNGC Principles – United Nations Global Compact SDG – Sustainable Development Goals 070 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 8. Non-financial information requirements The report of the activity responds to the legal requirements imposed by Portuguese Decree-Law no. 89/2017, published on July 28, 2017 and Spanish law no. 11/2018, of December 28, as it is subsequently shown. TABLE OF CORRESPONDENCE TO DL 89/2017 of July 28th Contents of the Decree-Law no. 89/2017 of July 28th Location Article no. 3 (refers to Article no. 66-B and no. 508-G of the CSC): The non-financial statement must contain enough information for an understanding of the development, performance, position and impact of its activities, relating at least to environmental, social and worker-related issues, equality between men and women, non-discrimination, respect for human rights, combating corruption and bribery, including: Sustainability Report 2018: a) A brief description of the company's business model 7. GRI Supplement Sustainability Report 2018: 1. Sustainability at the core of our DNA 2. CO2 and climate change b) A description of the company's policies in relation to these 3. Nature and biodiversity issues, including the due diligence procedures duly applied 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 6. Community support 7. GRI Supplement Sustainability Report 2018: 2. CO2 and climate change 3. Nature and biodiversity c) The results from these policies 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 6. Community support 7. GRI Supplement Sustainability Report 2018: d) The main risks associated to these issues, related to the 7. GRI Supplement company's activities, including, if relevant and proportionate, its business relations, its products or services that may have negative Corporate Governance Report 2018 impacts on these areas and how these risks are managed by the C. Internal Organisation: IIIInternal Control and Risk Management: 53-55.; company IVInvestor Relations: 56-58 Sustainability Report 2018: 2. CO2 and climate change e) Key performance indicators relevant to its specific activity 3. Nature and biodiversity 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 6. Community support 7. GRI Supplement Article no. 4 (refers to Article no. 245no. 1 r) and no. 2 of the Sustainability Report 2018: CVM): 1. Sustainability at the core of our DNA Description of the Diversity Policy applied by the company with 5. Inequalities and inclusive development respect to its management and supervisory bodies, namely, in 7. GRI Supplement terms of age, sex, qualifications and professional background, the Information about Corporate Governance can be found: here. objectives of this diversity policy, how it was applied and the results in the period of reference. Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 071 TABLE OF CORRESPONDENCE TABLE TO THE SPANISH LAW 11/2018 of December 28th Contents of the Spanish Law 11/2018 of December 28th Material issue in Location materiality analysis Global The consolidated statement of non-financial information will include the information necessary to understand: ▪ The development, Management Report and Financial Statements ▪ The results and situation of the group and 2018: ▪ The impact of its activity; An overview of Sonae Portfolio performance In relation to: ▪ Environmental issues, Yes ▪ Social issues, Sustainability Report 2018: ▪ Respect for human rights, 2. CO2 and climate change ▪ Respect for combating corruption and bribery, 3. Nature and biodiversity ▪ as well as regarding employees, including measures 4. Plastic that, if applicable, have been adopted to comply with 5. Inequalities and inclusive development the principle of equal treatment and opportunities for 6. Community support women and men, non-discrimination and the inclusion of people with disabilities and universal accessibility. Business Model Brief description of the group’s business model, which will Management Report and Financial Statements include: 2018: 1.) The business environment, An overview of Sonae 2.) The organisation and structure, Portfolio performance Yes 3.) The markets in which it operates, 4.) The goals and strategies, Sustainability Report 2018: 5.) The main factors and trends that may affect its future 1. Sustainability at the core of our DNA development. 7. GRI Supplement Policies A description of the policies that the group applies to these Sustainability Report 2018: issues, including: 1. Sustainability at the core of our DNA 1.) due diligence procedures applied to the identification, 2. CO2 and climate change assessment, prevention and mitigation of 3. Nature and biodiversity significant risks and impacts. 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 2.) verification and control procedures including the measures Yes 6. Community support that have been adopted. 7. GRI Supplement Corporate Governance Report 2018 C. Internal Organisation: IIIInternal Control and Risk Management: 53-55.; IVInvestor Relations: 56-58 Results of the policies and key performance indicators The results of those policies, including key performance indicators Sustainability Report 2018: of relevant non-financial results that allow: 2. CO2 and climate change 1.) the monitoring and assessment of progress and 3. Nature and biodiversity Yes 2.) that favour comparability between sectors, according to the 5. Inequalities and inclusive development national, European or international benchmarks used for each 6. Community support area. 7. GRI Supplement Risks Sustainability Report 2018: The main risks related to these issues with respect to the activities 7. GRI Supplement of the group, including, when relevant, their business relations, No Corporate Governance Report 2018 products or services that may have negative effects on them, and C. Internal Organisation: IIIInternal Control and ▪ how the group manages these risks, Risk Management: 53-55.; IVInvestor Relations: 072 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 ▪ explaining the procedures used to detect and assess 56-58 risks, according to the national, European or international benchmark structures for each area. ▪ Information should be included on the impacts detected, detailing the main risks in the short, medium and long-term. Key performance indicators Key non-financial performance indicators that are relevant to the business activity and that meet the comparability, materiality, relevance and reliability criteria. In order to allow the comparison of information, both over time and across entities, standard key non-financial indicators will be used that can be generally applied and that comply with the European Commission's guidelines on this subject and the Sustainability Report 2018: standards of the Global Reporting Initiative, mentioning in the 2. CO2 and climate change report the national, European or international scope used for 3. Nature and biodiversity Yes each area. 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 6. Community support The main indicators of non-financial results should be applied to 7. GRI Supplement each of the non-financial information topics. These indicators should be useful, taking into consideration the circumstances, and consistent with the parameters used in their internal assessment and risk management procedures. In any event, the information presented must be accurate, comparable and verifiable. Environmental issues Global environment Sustainability Report 2018: 2. CO2 and climate change 1.) Detailed information on the current and possible effects of the 3. Nature and biodiversity company's activities on the environment and, when applicable, 5. Inequalities and inclusive development health and safety procedures, environmental assessment or 6. Community support certification; Yes 7. GRI Supplement 2.) Resources dedicated to the prevention of environmental risks; 3.) The application of the precautionary principle, the quantity of Corporate Governance Report 2018 provisions and guarantees for environmental risks. C. Internal Organisation: IIIInternal Control and Risk Management: 53-55.; IVInvestor Relations: 56-58 Contamination Yes Sustainability Report 2018: 1.) Measures to prevent, reduce or repair damage from carbon 2. CO2 and climate change emissions, which seriously affect the environment; 7. GRI Supplement 2.) Taking into consideration any form of air pollution, which is Sonae’s activity, due to its nature, does not have activity-specific, including noise and light pollution. significant impacts on the level of noise and light pollution. Circular economy and waste management and prevention Circular economy Sustainability Report 2018: Waste: prevention, recycling, reuse, other forms of waste 3. Nature and biodiversity Yes recovery and disposal; actions to combat food waste 4. Plastic 7. GRI Supplement Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 073 Sustainable use of resources Yes Sustainability Report 2018: Water consumption and water supply according to local 2. CO2 and climate change restrictions; 3. Nature and biodiversity 7. GRI Supplement Consumption of raw materials and the measures adopted to improve the efficiency of use; Energy consumption, direct and indirect, measures adopted to improve energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy. Climate change The important elements of greenhouse gas emissions released as a result of the company's activities, including the use of goods and services it produces; Sustainability Report 2018: Measures taken to adapt to the consequences of climate change; Yes 2. CO2 and climate change 7. GRI Supplement The voluntary medium and long-term reduction targets set to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the measures implemented to achieve this. Biodiversity protection Sustainability Report 2018: Measures taken to preserve and restore biodiversity; 3. Nature and biodiversity 7. GRI Supplement Yes Sonae does not own any facilities in areas Impacts caused by the activities or operations in protected areas. classified as habitats rich in biodiversity. In 2018, there were no operations carried out leading to changes in the surrounding habitats that would result in their restoration. Employment Yes Sustainability Report 2018: Total number and distribution of employees by gender, age, country and professional category 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 7. GRI Supplement Total number and distribution of work contract modalities, Corporate Governance Report 2018 D. Remuneration: IPower to establish: 66; IIAnnual average of undefined contracts, temporary contracts and Remuneration Committee: 67-68; IIIpart-time contracts by gender, age and professional category, Remuneration Structure: 69-76; IVDisclosure of Remuneration: 77-82; VAgreements with Dismissal numbers by gender, age and professional category, Remunerative Implications: 83-84; VI– Share Attribution Plans or Stock Options: 85-88; E. Relevant Transactions with Related Parties: IThe average remuneration and its evolution disaggregated by Mechanisms of control procedures: 89-91; IIgender, age and professional category or equal value; Elements related to transactions: 92 Salary difference, the remuneration of equal or average positions in the company, The average remuneration of managers and executives, including variable remuneration, allowances, compensation, payment to systems for forecasting long-term savings and any other situation disaggregated by gender 074 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 When employees disconnect compliance to the Implementation of labour disconnection policies, legal requirements applicable to these situations is ensured. At Sonae, we continuously work to provide an inclusive, non-discriminatory work environment. Employees with disabilities Our facilities are developed to ensure universal accessibility. Organisation of work Yes Sustainability Report 2018: Organisation of workable hours 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 7. GRI Supplement Number of hours of absence Measures to facilitate parental leave and encourage joint responsibility by both parents Health and Safety No Sustainability Report 2018: Health and safety conditions at work; 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 7. GRI Supplement Work accidents, in particular their frequency and severity, Occupational diseases; disaggregated by gender. Social Relations Yes Sustainability Report 2018: Organisation of social dialogue, including procedures for informing and consulting staff and negotiating with them; 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 7. GRI Supplement Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements by country; Sonae’s Code of Ethics and Conduct for The balance of collective bargaining agreements, especially in the Employees field of health and safety at work Training Yes Sustainability Report 2018: The policies implemented in the field of training; 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 7. GRI Supplement Total number of hours of training by professional category At Sonae, we continuously work to provide an inclusive, non-discriminatory work environment. Universal accessibility for people with disabilities Our facilities are developed to ensure universal accessibility. Equality Measures taken to promote equal treatment and opportunities Yes Sustainability Report 2018: between men and women; 1. Sustainability at the core of our DNA Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 075 Equality Plans (Chapter III of the Organic Law 3/2007, of March 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 22nd, for the effective equality of women and men), measures 7. GRI Supplement adopted to promote employment, protocols against sexual and Equality Plans gender harassment, integration and universal accessibility for people with disabilities; The policy against all types of discrimination and, when appropriate, the management of diversity. Human Rights Application of the due diligence procedures in the field of human Yes Sustainability Report 2018: rights 1. Sustainability at the core of our DNA Prevention of the risks of human rights violations and, when 5. Inequalities and inclusive development appropriate, measures to mitigate, manage and repair possible 7. GRI Supplement abuses committed; Sonae’s Code of Ethics and Conduct for Employees Reports on cases of human rights violations; Sonae’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers Promotion and enforcement of the provisions of the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization concerning the respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining; The elimination of employment and occupational discrimination; The elimination of forced or compulsory labour; The effective abolition of child labour. Corruption and bribery Yes Sustainability Report 2018: Measures taken to prevent corruption and bribery; 1. Sustainability at the core of our DNA 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 6. Community support 7. GRI Supplement Measures taken to combat money laundering; Sonae’s Code of Ethics and Conduct for Employees Sonae’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers Contributions to foundations and non-profit entities. Society The company’s commitment to sustainable development Yes Sustainability Report 2018: The impact of the company’s activity on employment and local 1. Sustainability at the core of our DNA development; 5. Inequalities and inclusive development 6. Community support The impact of the company’s activity on the local population and 7. GRI Supplement territory; Sonae’s Code of Ethics and Conduct for Employees The relations maintained with the representatives of the local Sonae’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers communities and the modalities of dialogue with them; Association and sponsorship actions. 076 | Sonae _Annual Report ’18 Subcontracting and suppliers The inclusion in the purchasing policy of social issues, gender Sustainability Report 2018: equality and environmental issues; 3. Nature and biodiversity Consideration in relations with suppliers and subcontractors of 7. GRI Supplement their social and environmental responsibility; Sonae’s Code of Ethics and Conduct for Employees Supervisory systems and audits and their results. Sonae’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers Consumers Measures for the health and safety of consumers; No Sustainability Report 2018: 3. Nature and biodiversity 4. Plastic Complaints systems, complaints received and their resolution. 7. GRI Supplement Tax information Benefits obtained by country Yes Sustainability Report 2018: 7. GRI Supplement Management Report and Financial Statements Taxes on benefits paid 2018 Sonae _ Annual Report ’18 | 077 KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. Edifício Burgo – Avenida da Boavista, 1837 – 16º Andar 4100-133 Porto Portugal +351 22 010 23 00 | www.kpmg.pt INDEPENDENT LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT (Free translation from a report originally issued in Portuguese language. In case of doubt the Portuguese version will always prevail.) To the Board of Directors of Sonae SGPS, S.A. Introduction We were engaged by the Board of Directors of Sonae SGPS, S.A. (“Sonae”) to provide limited assurance on the information included in the Sustainability Report of Sonae ( the Report ) for the year ended 31 December 2018. Board of Directors’ responsibilities The Board of Directors of Sonae is responsible for: • The preparation and presentation of the information included in the Report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards), for the level Core, as described in the chapter “About this report” of the Report, and the information and assertions contained within it; and, • Establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported performance information is derived. Our responsibilities Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work performed. We have applied International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly we maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. In the course of our work, we have complied with the applicable requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. KPMG & Associados – Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A., a KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. Portuguese company and a member firm of the KPMG network of Capital Social: 3.916.000 Euros Pessoa Colectiva Nº PT 502 161 078 independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Coopeative Inscrito na O.R.O.C. Nº 189 Inscrito na C.M.V.M. Nº 20161489 (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Matriculada na Conservatória do registo Comercial de Lisboa sob o Nº PT 502 161 078 Scope We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board of the International Federation of Accountants. That Standard requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether anything came to our attention that causes us to believe that the information included in the Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is not prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the GRI Standards, for the level Core. A limited assurance engagement on sustainability information consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the sustainability information presented in the Report, and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures included: • Inquiries with the responsible persons to gain an understanding of Sonae’s processes for determining the material issues for Sonae’s key stakeholder groups; • Interviews with relevant staff, at the corporate and business unit level, responsible for providing the sustainability information in the Report; • Comparing the information presented in the Report to corresponding information in the relevant underlying sources to determine whether all the relevant information contained in such underlying sources has been included in the Report; and, • Reading the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of Sonae. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Conclusion Our conclusion has been formed on the basis of, and is subject to, the matters outlined in this report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information included in the Report of Sonae for the year ended 31 December 2018 is not presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Standards, for the level Core. 2 Restriction of use and distribution of our report In accordance with the terms of our engagement, this independent limited assurance report has been prepared for Sonae and is not intended to be used for other purpose or in any other context. Any party other than the intended addressees who obtains access to our report or a copy thereof and chooses to rely on our report (or any part thereof) will do so at its own risk. We accept or assume no responsibility and deny any liability to any party other than Sonae for our work, for this independent limited assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached. 1 April 2019 SIGNED ON THE ORIGINAL KPMG & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, S.A. (nr. 189) represented by Pedro Manuel Bouça de Morais Alves da Costa (ROC nr. 1466)
