COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 15th February, 2018 to: 12th March, 2019 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) 12th March, 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Expertise Global Consulting Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders and general public using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mrs. C. Wangari Kebuchi Muikia CEO/Managing Director 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Expertise has continually ensured that its employees are provided with safe, clean and conducive working space and environment i.e designated smoking areas allocated for its clients, garbage disposal bins have been provided, clean drinking water has been provided and an office heater to warm the office during winter. Expertise has embraced an open door policy that allows its employees to air their concerns and feedback freely and in a confidential manner. Regular weekly meetings are held with employees to ensure that their concerns are addressed promptly. The firm holds quarterly/monthly retreats and team meetings to help relieve work related stress. Labour Up-to-date employee contracts are in place for all employees, which ensures that the team offer services that they have only consented to. There is a proper leave policy to cater for all employees out of office requests. There is provision for employees to work from home upon request. Team members have been provided with the required working tools i.e office laptops, necessary stationery. The firm ensures its team benefits from continuous on job training to enable smooth undertaking of their job duties and responsibilities. Environment The firm has ensured compliance of the OSHA Act 2007 Kenya by ensuring fire extinguishers are availed, fire exit and assembly points are well stipulated and it is working towards ensuring that all its team members undergo the training. The firm has a no plastic use policy. Anti-Corruption Expertise has embraced a no corruption policy in its business and ensures to disclose the same with all its clients. Included in the firms core values is integrity and professionalism ensuring that all its team members adhere to a no corruption policy at all times. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Expertise Global Consulting Ltd has embraced diversity amongst its team as indicated on the table below: Number of employees Gender Ethnicity Age Bracket 4 Male – 2 Kikuyu Below 30 years – 1 Female 2 Kuria Between 30 – 40 years – 2 Meru Above 40 years 1 Taita Two on job trainings are held quarterly, e.g. trainings conducted on the previous quarter were aimed at improving business processes and overcoming challenges that were related to day to day activities of the business that include efficient writing skills and communication both writing and presentations. Monthly performance reviews are held to review team members work performance and to address any cropping challenges and find solutions ensuring that all team members are aligned to firms objectives and have a clear career path.
