25 September 2019 H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am happy to reaffirm Huntsman’s continuing support for the Ten Principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and to redouble our support for the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals. In 2018, we built on previous years’ successes in many ways, details of which are available to all stakeholders on www.Huntsman.com/sustainability. Some key accomplishments for the year include: • Accelerating circularity through the value chain. We transform severely distressed PET scrap that otherwise would have been destined for landfills or found its way into our oceans into energy-saving polyurethane insulation, the most effective insulants available in the market today. While Huntsman does not produce PET plastic, in 2018, we upcycled the equivalent of one billion 500 ml PET bottles – five billion since 2014. • Delivering customer value and societal benefits together through our product innovations. In 2018 alone, our AVITERA® SE dyes helped save roughly one billion liters of water. • Driving efficiency in our operations. We published Horizon 2025, our first global targets for improving both environmental performance and personal and process safety. Horizon 2025 sets production intensity targets in GHG emissions, energy consumption, hazardous and total solid waste disposal, and net water usage. • Elevating reporting. We made various improvements in our reporting on ESG issues to the investor community, and now report SOx and NOx emissions along with overall air emissions, and include a global summary of Huntsman site certifications. Additionally, we plan to accelerate the publication of our annual sustainability report next year from 4Q to 2Q, when we will publish a combined 2018/2019 report to the latest Global Reporting Initiative standards. We continue to incorporate the Ten Principles as appropriate into our corporate policies and standards, which we see as complementary to our own business values and goals. With this communication, we express our continued commitment to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Sincerely yours, Peter R. Huntsman Chairman, President and CEO HUNTSMAN CORPORATION 10003 Woodloch Forest Drive, The Woodlands, Texas 77380, USA Tel.: +1-281-719-6000 Fax .: +1-281-719-6416 www.huntsman.com
