Communication on Progress No 9 2018/2019 Sustainable development, the energy that fuels our growth Declaration of ongoing support for the principles of the Global Compact Ayming is a leading business performance advisor with branches in 16 countries. The group supports clients as they improve and boost performance in areas of value-creation in four domains of expertise: human resources, operations, finance and innovation. When facing new environmental and social challenges, this value-creation process can only be achieved as part of a policy that supports social development and the environment; this approach not only reduces risks but also offers genuine opportunities. Ayming has supported the United Nations Global Compact since 2010. The 10 principles of the pact are perfectly aligned with the Group’s CSR strategy and commitments in terms of human rights, labour and environmental standards and anti-corruption measures. This year, Ayming decided to expand its message by adding an international dimension with indicators and actions for several of its European subsidiaries. As Group Chairman, I am honoured to renew Ayming’s commitment to the Global Compact, in order to promote its ten principles. I invite you to read our ninth ‘Communication on Progress’, which sets out our achievements and progress in 2018, together with our new CSR roadmap for 2019. Hervé Amar Chairman 2 Our CSR approach Social Environmental Economic The 10 Global 1-2: human rights 7-9: environment Compact 10: anti-corruption 3-6: labour standards principles Our To support social development To preserve the environment by To promote sustainable commitments for employees through a human changing our day-to-day growth for Ayming and its resources policy based on behaviour (travel, use of clients, by means of responsible recruitment, fair equipment, recycling, etc.) and responsible and ethical professional development for all, our purchasing practices, to make professional practices, the appropriation and promotion them more responsible. together with the provision of of the company’s fundamental new solutions in its business values in everyday practices, and portfolio which are the integration of all social sustainable developmentcategories at all levels of the oriented, innovative and company. value-generating. To promote the ten principles of the Global Compact among our clients, via our corporate communications (website, brochures, etc.) and among our suppliers, through awareness-raising and assessment. Our previous  Harmonising our HR policies  Reducing our CO2 emissions  Raising awareness among achievements at Group level by: our employees on our anticutting the number of business corruption policy  Establishing the Quality of trips Life at Work barometer developing remote working  Continuously improving solutions and reducing how client relations  Developing a recruitment much we all commute policy that focuses on young  Carrying out annual people in training and recent  Reducing how much paper and assessments of our graduates energy we use by digitalising suppliers our business  Creating career pathways 3 Social Principles 1-6 Human rights. Companies are invited to: 1. support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in their sphere of influence; 2. ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour rights. Companies are invited to: 3. uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. abolish child labour; 6. eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The men and women that make up the Group are its most important asset. To ensure that each employee can achieve professional fulfilment both today and when faced with the challenges of tomorrow, we are committed to implementing a human resources management system that is part of a resolute and committed policy of social responsibility. FRANCE In figures... 2017 2018 French workforce 836 852 % permanent contracts 98% 98% 2018 % women 60% 56% 2017 % women managers 38% 38% % turnover 13% 16% % working remotely 35% 37% 4 To support this commitment, the Ayming Group Human Resources Department has created the HR Corporate and Innovation Division, which is responsible for leading a number of ambitious HR projects. The objective of this new division is to roll out projects and social policies within each country’s HR department, with the overall aim of creating more global harmony and coherence while capitalising on the specific characteristics of each country. Three strategic focuses were set out for 2018:  Attract and retain talent  Improve our employees’ quality of life at work  Digitalise our HR processes Attracting and retaining talent  Designing and implementing a new dynamic approach to ‘Job Dating’, in order to identify both the general and technical skills we need from our future talent. In 2018, we organised 5 job dating events in France and abroad in Paris, Lille, Brussels, Aix-Marseille and Madrid. Our challenges: Operational growth and productivity within the Group Internal customer satisfaction Our brand as an employer Multiple constraints: deadlines, a tense marketplace, turnover, etc. Our concept: For applicants For Ayming more than sourcing: DISCOVERY STREAMLINING the recruitment process more than information: A STORY MOBILISING our operations more than HR: A PERSON IMPROVING our brand as an employer and our visibility more than service: AN EXPERIENCE REDUCING recruitment costs Job dating format: creating a totally different candidate experience! Interview station Ayming workshop Job dating Experience in the basket Introductory session Simultaneous workshops, every 15 minutes applicants switch workshops Ayming workshop Ayming workshop Knowledge Shooting a video 5 Our results: 11 firm recruitments, a pool of 25 candidates.  Developing a placement programme, allowing young people to confidently enter the world of work Over the course of 2018, we established and developed several partnerships with the goal of welcoming placement students to Ayming, helping young people in training take their first steps in the professional world with us, including: 3 prestigious business schools (Ecole Supérieure de Commerce de Paris ESCP, Ecole Management de Lyon and Montpellier Business School) The University of Diderot as part of their scientific writing masters Sorbonne University as part of their SIRH masters We supported more than 20 placement students at Ayming France in 2018, mainly from these schools, but also from a range of other educational backgrounds, all contributing to the employability of these young talents.  Rolling out an international volunteer programme, helping people develop their careers overseas Ayming operates in 16 countries in Europe, North America and Canada, and has developed a partnership with Business France to help our younger colleagues develop their careers overseas. As part of the scheme, in 2018, Ayming Canada hosted 2 employees and Ayming Belgium hosted another.  Filling vacancies internally and identifying and supporting our talent so they can progress at work, whether moving up or across, by establishing our HR Innovation Division Retaining talent is a key priority for the Ayming Group and the HR Innovation Division has created and rolled out a new talent management pathway designed to promote: career and geographic mobility (with the creation of our Move With Us platform) promotions (creating support pathways, including assessments, mentoring training, etc.) Furthermore, because Ayming firmly believes that our employees’ careers are first and foremost in their own hands, the HR Innovation Division has created a dedicated support programme, #BossOfMyWorkLife, which helps employees achieve their career goals. Improving quality of life at work Ayming has formally committed to supporting and developing our employees’ quality of life at work through a variety of initiatives and actions. The most significant actions carried out in 2018 were:  Strengthening female leadership by creating a working group and attending the International Women’s Forum in Toronto 6 Setting up a delegation of some of our female colleagues at Ayming has resulted in the creation of the IWILL programme, the goal of which is to enable women to further their careers (either in positions with greater responsibility or in roles traditionally held by men)  Reinforcing respect for human rights by adhering to the GDPR and updating our IT Charter Protecting personal data is a priority for the Ayming Group, whether that data concerns customers, suppliers or staff. With the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation, our Group’s data processing systems have been strengthened in all the following areas: • Human resources management • Managing telephony services in the • Processes related to quality of life workplace in the workplace • Managing staff training and careers • Whistleblowing procedures • Workplace security passes • Disciplinary actions • Payroll management • Video surveillance • Dispute handling • Managing job applications • Car fleet management • Data anonymity and destruction • Managing the employee savings • Managing business travel scheme • Providing staff with communications • Producing an in-house directory and ticketing IT tools • Managing the Employment and on myayming (with photos) Business Council’s (CSE) activities • Managing the Employment & • Managing documentation Business Council (CSE)/staff produced by employees representative body meeting minutes • Identity and permissions management • Managing staff representative terms of office • Managing workplace elections • Managing requests to access and • Systems permissions management correct data • Handling incidents on our IT systems • Managing system connection and activity logs  Opening local spaces to improve quality of life for our remote employees Since the start of the year, we’ve opened 6 regional agencies in France: Grenoble Toulouse Lille Strasbourg Rennes Bordeaux Indeed, it is essential for us to maintain and support our regional roots because, beyond our position as an international player, it is above all our significant regional knowledge and active local involvement that means we can bring innovative and tailor-made solutions to our customers. Our colleagues who are based in various regions will now be able to meet and share their knowledge in friendly and connected spaces. This new closeness also promotes the quality of our relationships with our regional partners, including scientific experts, accounting experts, legal firms, doctors, banking institutions, competition clusters, professional federations, whilst also giving us better availability to meet with our clients. 7 Digitalising our HR processes The digital transformation affects recruitment, representing a real challenge for Ayming France, US, Belgium, and others. We’ve benchmarked and selected a 100%-online tool called Scoptalent. This will help manage recruitment processes, recruitment campaigns and our pool of talent. It provides a clear workflow between HR and our operational departments, streamlining the entire recruitment process as a result. This tool also means we can post details of our open vacancies on multiple jobs boards. There’s also a redesigned career page and ‘join us’ page on our website, www.ayming.fr. These changes are all currently in development and will be put into practice in December 2018. As before, our main objective is to simplify the applications procedure, shortening turnaround times and lowering the costs associated with recruitment campaigns. The same changes will take place on all Ayming websites. We’ve also provided our employees with a chatbot to help answer their queries regarding the roll out of the new pay-at-source income tax system in France. 2019 Our roadmap Numerous projects have been launched throughout 2018 and will continue into 2019 so we can fully feel the benefits. Beyond pursuing these projects, a number of new approaches related to developing skills and bringing about a new culture to enrich our 2019 roadmap will also be given particular attention, including:  Increasing our visibility and Ayming’s brand as an employer by marketing our concept of job dating in collaboration with the Communications Department (our logo, brand line, digital marketing tools, etc.).  Creating an inclusive culture (measuring and assessing our diversity for overall performance, supporting managers faced with new diversity challenges).  Developing a culture of mediation to overcome our differences and understanding what makes each of us different to find agreement in disagreement.  Developing a mentoring programme in order to accelerate skills and experience sharing, enhancing our employees’ skills, employability and performance as a result.  Setting up ‘meetings with...’ events and offering employees the chance to attend conferences with inspirational speakers, thinking beyond the challenges of their core business areas. The first ‘meeting with...’ took place in November exploring ideas around mediation. Subjects will alternate between culture, technology and working together. 8  Setting up a level 1 programme helping to support employees in their ‘Consultant Agile Project Manager’ training. The programme is broken down into 5 skills blocks, including customer relations/advice, agile service management, contractual and financial management, communications and interpersonal relations, as well as legitimising the role of consultants in the jobs market. It will also aid in the development of additional skills ensuring all the necessary development advice for our consultancy services designed for our customers is available.  Pursuing support for consultants with ‘Consultant Agile Project Manager’ training in order to set up a programme targeting 5 skills blocks, including customer relations/advice, agile service management, contractual and financial management, agile management and support, as well as communications and interpersonal relations.  Continuing our digitalisation drive for administrative and payroll processes, helping our employees concentrate on their core work and simplifying their everyday lives at work by going paperless with payslips, for example.  Developing innovative training pathways to help local managers prepare to become the leaders of tomorrow, giving them the tools they need to react to ever-changing environments and providing energising management for themselves and others. POLAND In figures... 2018 Polish workforce 53 % permanent contracts 93% 2018 % women 57% % women managers 73% % turnover 25% % working remotely Unspecified Corporate Social Responsibility also depends on the job security companies can offer their employees, which is why permanent contracts are the preferred course of action for all new arrivals at Ayming Poland. 9 In terms of quality of life at work, several actions have been taken to improve the everyday lives of our employees, such as the option to change their working hours to help them find a better work/life balance, as well as the possibility to adapt their working hours when returning from maternity leave. Finally, throughout the year, training sessions have been carried out amongst our leaders and managers focussing on team management, change coaching, etc., in order to properly support them in underpinning well-being at work. 2019 Our roadmap  Launch a satisfaction survey across Ayming Poland to find out how our employees see their working conditions and environment.  Carry out new training sessions throughout the year to maintain and develop the employability of our staff. GERMANY In figures... 2018 German workforce 25 % permanent contracts 92% % women 36% 2018 % women managers 17% % turnover 12% % working remotely 16% In terms of quality of life at work, several actions have been taken to help our employees find a better work/life balance, as well as improving their everyday lives, including: giving them the option to change their working hours; giving them the option to adapt their working hours when returning from maternity leave; introducing remote working. 10 2019 Our roadmap  Strengthen cooperation between our 3 business lines.  Carry out training sessions throughout the year to maintain and develop the employability of our staff. ITALY In figures... 2018 Italian workforce 51 2018 % permanent contracts 78% % women 71% % women managers 18% % turnover 37% % working remotely 0% 2019 Our roadmap  Launch a satisfaction survey across Ayming Italy to find out how our employees see their working conditions and environment. 11 BELGIUM In figures... 2018 Belgian workforce 24 % permanent contracts 100% % women 64% 2018 % women managers 80% % turnover 64% % working remotely 20% Throughout 2018, as part of our jobs and skills forecast management process, the Group’s careers monitoring and workplace assessment tools were rolled out in Belgium. This has helped to harmonise and make employee annual appraisals more objective. We’ve also innovatively developed our recruitment processes by posting open job vacancies on social networks using videos. This has helped us reach a broader target market, while conveying a more accurate representation of our company. Finally, training sessions were made available to our employees to extend their skills and improve their employability. 2019 Our roadmap  Launch a partnership with the Solvay School in Brussels 12 Environmental Principles 7-9 Environmental. Companies are invited to: 7. support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. The environment represents all the biodiversity of our planet, both on land and in the sea. These natural resources are indispensable to life and the human race on earth. Protecting our environment is a major challenge and requires strong will and commitment from everyone. FRANCE  Transport and business travel One of the leading causes of pollution and environmental damage are the CO2 emissions generated by travel. That’s why we’re trying to reduce and control these emissions year on year. Reducing the amount our employees travel, whether that’s by taking fewer business trips or avoiding the need to commute by working remotely, has helped us reduce our CO2 emissions. This year, we’ve also introduced our Mobility Plan, designed to help us streamline the amount of travel related to our business. An accessibility study at two of our main sites and a survey on our employees’ travel habits have been carried out to draw up an action plan looking to promote the use of alternative modes of transport that are more environmentally-friendly.  Paper and energy The ever-increasing digitalisation of our company also acts as an environmental protection measure by significantly reducing how much paper and energy we use. To reduce electricity consumption at our headquarters, we’ve implemented a plan to replace all halogen light bulbs and spotlights with LED technology. 13 2019 Our roadmap  Introduce a plan of action based on our Mobility Plan, in order to create behavioural changes aimed at contributing to sustainable mobility and environmental protection.  Carry out a carbon footprint assessment and energy audit to identify the actions we need to take to reduce our energy consumption.  Introduce a new catering offer, focussing on local and organic produce to reduce our CO2 emissions and use of pesticides.  Prepare our fleet of vehicles for the energy transition: 94% diesel vehicles POLAND Our Polish offices are situated in the centre of Warsaw in a business district that is well-served by public transport. This is helping us limit the CO2 emissions generated by our employees driving to and from work. As a result, 90% of our employees now use public transport for their daily commutes. This year, we also reviewed our policy on allocating company cars by adding a condition related to the CO2 emissions of each vehicle. Still focussing on a sustainable development approach, several other actions have been taken to protect the environment: a filtered water fountain has been installed, in order to eliminate the use of plastic water bottles; reusable crockery has been made available to employees in our canteen to limit the use of plastic dishes; light sensors have been installed; PIN codes have been added to photocopiers to raise awareness and limit paper waste. 2019 Our roadmap  Institute waste sorting and recycling.  Persevere with our fight against CO2 emissions. 14 GERMANY Over the course of the year, several actions have been taken to protect the environment: a filtered water fountain has been installed, in order to eliminate the use of plastic water bottles; double-sided printing is now used by default on all photocopiers to raise awareness and limit paper waste. Furthermore, half of our employees now use public transport for their journeys to and from work, which is helping to limit our employees’ CO2 emissions. 2019 Our roadmap  Institute waste sorting and recycling.  Persevere with our fight against CO2 emissions. ITALY  We have measured greenhouse gas emissions, energy usage and water consumption.  We have implemented waste sorting (glass, metal and batteries). 2019 Our roadmap  Reduce our energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions 15 BELGIUM In order to limit our CO2 emissions, this year, we’ve reviewed our policy on allocating company cars by adding a condition related to the CO2 emissions of each vehicle. Also in the context of environmental protection, we’ve begun sorting and recycling our office waste by making separate bins available to all our employees. We’ve also limited the amount of printing our employees have to do and, as a result, reduced unnecessary use of paper and energy by requiring a PIN code to print. 16 Economic Principle 10 Economic. Companies are invited to: 10. fight against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. FRANCE As outlined by the UN, corruption is a serious crime that weakens society by curbing social and economic development and exacerbates inequality and injustice. As part of our fight against corruption, and following awareness campaigns for our employees on our commitment to integrity and the practices and behaviour we all need to follow as part of our everyday lives, we’ve developed an alert system. This system, open to all our employees, allows them to report any breach of Ayming’s code of conduct in terms of corruption or insider influence. What is a whistleblower? A whistleblower is an employee who discloses or reports, in good faith and for no personal gain, a breach of our guidelines on preventing and fighting corruption. They must have personal knowledge of the facts. How to report a breach? Any employee wishing to disclose evidence must bring it to the attention of the Purchasing Director via the questionnaire available online. I personally report this The Purchasing Director evidence in good faith The Purchasing calls a meeting with the and for no personal I fill in the form via the Director receives the Executive Committee to gain Sphinx link report and assesses it begin judging the evidence Protecting whistleblowers France’s Sapin 2 Law establishes a framework scheme for protecting whistleblowers and collecting their evidence. Decree law 2017-564 as stipulated by the text was published in France’s Official Journal on 20 April 2017. 17 2019 Our roadmap  Pursue our communications campaign to raise awareness amongst all stakeholders in our company on the issue of corruption.  Introduce a referencing platform for all our suppliers and subcontractors to ensure they comply with the regulations in force and within the framework of the law in this duty of care. POLAND Like every year, and in accordance with ISO 9001 standard, an annual assessment of our strategic suppliers was carried out to check that they are able to meet our needs and requirement levels correctly. We were able to ensure that 100% of our suppliers were in line with our expectations. As part of our fight against corruption, we also introduced a number of monitoring actions: For every one of our processes, cross-checking is now mandatory. Figures presented to our customers are systematically checked by a manager or a third party. A scope for negotiation has been put into place to define threshold amounts for each negotiation process. Beyond a certain threshold, checks by managers and country managers will become necessary. A non-competition clause must be signed by all our employees. 2019 Our roadmap  Launch a satisfaction survey amongst our customers as part of our continuous improvement strategy for customer relations.  Collect customer satisfaction scores to establish a reference point and justify our quality commitment. 18 About Ayming Established in 16 countries in Europe, North America and Asia, Ayming provides high added value consulting services to help its clients to improve and develop their value-creation performance in four major domains of expertise: Human Resources, Operations (strategic and indirect purchasing, WCR, Supply chain), Finance and Innovation. The improvement of a company’s global performance is maximised by managing and preventing risks (secure), optimising processes, organisational structure and financing (accelerate), and finally by understanding and foreseeing its development (anticipate). This is why we offer our clients a global approach to consulting for improving performance: Business Performance consulting. Ayming has a unique way of doings things, it’s called Open Performance. Open Performance is about opening up the scope of possibilities for our clients’ performance, being innovative where you least expect it by considering performance at every level of the company. Ayming’s priority is to develop a close relationship with its clients, by being constantly at their service and creating a long-term partnership. The group is OPQCM-qualified by the Office Professionnel pour la Qualification des Conseils en Management (the French management consulting regulatory body), a member of Syncost and Syntec Conseil en Management and is ISO 9001 certified by AFNOR Certifications. The Group is a member of the professional associations Syncost and Syntec Management Consultants. For more information, please visit ayming.fr Ayming 185 avenue des Grésillons 92622 Gennevilliers +33 (0)1 41 49 41 00
