SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 NEXT JOINING UN GLOBAL COMPACT CLEANING AIR REDUCING CO2 PROTECTING CLIMATE IMPROVING EFFICIENCY CONSERVING RESOURCES KEY FIGURES 1.3 14.3% BILLION EUR SHARE OF WOMEN SALES TOTAL GROUP 48% 46,710 10.1 MWh SHARE OF ISO 14001 LOST TIME INJURY CERTIFIED UNITS ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION FREQUENCY RATE 1 2 Revised Code of Conduct HIGHLIGHTS Commitment to the Ten Principles of the UN Global 2018 Compact 3 4 5 Whistleblower System All sites in Germany have Green Truck Award 2018 launched been certified according to VerkehrsRundschau ISO 14001 Inhaltsverzeichnis Contents 1 CONTENTS 1. Corporate Governance 1.1 O verview of the SAF -HOLLAND Group P. 12 1.2 S ustainability management at SAF HOLLAND P. 13 1.3 C orporate Governance and Compliance P. 15 1.4 R esponsibility Along the Value Chain P. 18 Internationally committed 2. Products through the UN Global 2.1 S ustainable Expansion in our Technological Leadership P. 20 Compact Initiative 2.2 O ur Ambition: Maximum Product Last year, SAF HOLLAND joined the Safety P. 20 United Nations Global Compact 2.3 S AF -HOLLAND Products Reduce Fuel initiative P. 4 Consumption P. 22 2.4 D igital Innovation – SAF -HOLLAND 3. Corporate Environmental Protection Makes the Trailer Smart P. 24 3.1 E nvironmental Management – 2.5 A Strong Customer-Oriented The Processes at a Glance P. 27 Culture P. 25 3.2 M easuring Energy Data for More Transparency P. 27 3.3 S ystematic Detection of Emissions in the Air P. 28 3.4 R esponsible Water Usage P. 29 3.5 C onsistent Waste Management and High Recycling Quotas P. 29 4. Employees 4.1 I nvolving Our Employees for Long-Term Success P. 31 4.2 T raining and Further Education Ensure a Base of Qualified Employees P. 33 4.3 A Focus on Employee Occupational Health and Safety P. 34 5. Social Commitment 5.1 “ It’s the We that Counts” when it comes to What We Do and What We Support at SAFHOLLAND P. 37 5.2 R egional Project Highlights in the 2018 Financial Year P. 37 A new plant in China In the second half of 2019, we will open a new plant About this Report P. 40  in Yangzhou, China. In many areas, we will exceed the GRI -Index P. 41 environmental standards currently required. P. 10 UNGC Ten Principles P. 45 Imprint, Contact Information P. 46 Production Sites and Certification Overview P. 47 2 Message from the CEO ACTING RESPONSIBLY. AROUND THE GLOBE. A MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Alexander Geis, Chief Executive Officer (CEO ). With the publication of our second Sustainability Report, I When I started at SAF -HOLLAND, we only had a few hunwould like to show you the progress we have made in impledred employees. Today, the company employs around 4,500 menting our sustainability strategy during the 2018 financial people in 32 countries. At that time, I knew almost every year. employee personally. This is unthinkable today, despite being on site on a regular basis. With the globalization of our In this context, I would particularly like to highlight our embusiness activities, we are facing new challenges. We want ployees. These people work every day to make our producto ensure that our commitment to high ecological and social tion processes and our products a little better. They are the standards here in Europe is also practiced throughout the ones who are the first to see when things are not going well company – especially by our executives. “Tone from the in their workplace, when materials are wasted, when too top”, an old but appropriate principle. That is why I am callmuch energy is consumed and when working and safety ing on all of our senior executives to lead by example. Our conditions are not what they should be. corporate culture, which was that of a family-owned busiMessage from the CEO 3 ness for many decades, should also endure in a globally acBy making our products lighter, we help reduce greenhouse tive corporation. This means that all of our employees and gas emissions with every ton of freight that is transported. executives at the SAF -HOLLAND Group should treat each We are also working hard to get our own transportation on other as family, with both appreciation and respect. If, howthe rails, to avoid empty runs and to compensate for the ever, an employee or other stakeholder feels mistreated or greenhouse gases that are still unavoidable. would like to draw our attention to any irregularities, there is now a whistle-blower system in place that was established We hope you enjoy reading our second sustainability report. in the 2018 financial year. One thing is particularly important to me in this context. Unfortunately, in our society today we often observe irreverSincerely, ent, xenophobic and even racist behavior. That is why we as a management team immediately said yes when our works council proposed that the company put up signs with the words: “Respect! No room for racism”. At SAF -HOLLAND, we have people from many different nations. We encourage the appreciation of our differences and work together respectfully. Racism is not tolerated at SAF -HOLLAND. Being a global company presents added challenges such as Alexander Geis respecting human rights in the supply chain, and more. With this in mind, we made the decision last year to revise and Chief Executive Officer (CEO ) adapt our Code of Conduct. We also joined the Global Compact of the United Nations. This is how we intend to demonstrate and make certain that our sustainability principles apply everywhere and that we can see the progress we have achieved. Because one thing is clear: even though there are many things we do very well – as you will read in this report – there is always room for improvement. 4 UN Global Compact INTERNATIONALLY COMMITTED THROUGH THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE Last year, SAF -HOLLAND joined the United Nations Global Compact initiative. As a company that is becoming ever more global, we want to take more responsibility in an international context. As of today, around 13,000 companies and organizations around the world have joined the United Nations initiative. Now, we too are taking part. Why, you may ask? Are we going too far? With just 4,500 employees, aren’t we too small to be a part of the Global Compact initiative? SAF -HOLLAND has grown a lot in recent years. We manufacture in 15 countries on six continents, including the United States, Brazil, Turkey, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates, India and China. In all these countries, we face different challenges in terms of sustainability. We identify and evaluate the respective risks and from that derive the necessary measures. First and foremost, we want to ensure that human rights are respected throughout our value chain. Several years ago, we introduced a Code of Conduct, which we revised again in the year 2018. It is clear to us that child labor, discrimination and corruption are absolutely abhorrent. In fact, we have already been addressing issues that the Global Compact initiative is dealing with. ThereUN Global Compact 5 fore, it was a natural step in our sustainabilinity to learn from one another. Ultimately, ty strategy to also support this initiative. We we are all part of an initiative that aims to are now sending a clear signal to the outside make the global market economy sustainaworld and to our employees that we are seble. rious about our responsibility. Everywhere we do business. With the annual progress report, which Global Compact members are required to present, we at SAF -HOLLAND believe that it It was the UN Secretary General at the time, Kofi Annan, is our job to assure ourselves and the public who launched the Global Compact initiative in 1999 – an that we are on the right track. That is why agreement that companies enter into with the United Nathis sustainability report also serves as a tions by committing to ten Principles. Above all, it is about Communication on Progress. For informarespecting human rights everywhere and ensuring that tion on the Ten Principles and how we comsubcontractors and suppliers are not indirectly involved in ply with them, please go to page 45. any violations of human rights. As members of the UN Global Compact, companies are also committing to comAt the same time, the Global Compact is a bating child labor and corruption, avoiding all forms of disnetwork. Companies meet to share their excrimination against employees and actively protecting the periences. The German participants are orenvironment. ganized in the Foundation German Global Compact Network giving them the opportu6 The air is clear! THE AIR IS CLEAR! Employees at the Bessenbach site welcome a new Actually, we just wanted to would enable us to meet all of the preventilation concept move a few machines to anothscribed limits. er building. When we started planning, we had to pay special attention to the extraction sysWe have now successfully implemented a tem because of the low height of the ceiling. We quickly consystem using a combination of stationary excluded that the previous systems would no longer meet our octraction arms and stratified ventilation. It cupational health and safety requirements. We also wanted to works like this: From the hall, the used air is make sure that we would be ready for tighter regulations in the sucked and filtered out into the open air. At future. Local exhaust ventilation in the workplace was no longer the same time, up to 100 percent fresh air is effective enough to protect employees. We needed a better returned directly to the workstations ventilation system. So together with a company for exhaust and through a heat exchanger without creating a filter technology, we designed a tailor-made solution that draft. Drafts can harm both the employees and the quality of the welding work. Together with the extraction system, we now have an optimal solution in which the energy balance of the building has also been taken into account and improved. Our employees are pleased with the improvement in their working environment. Bessenbach production hall with improved ventilation system. Moving intelligently through the Alps 7 A semi-trailer is loaded onto the railway before crossing the Alps. MOVING INTELLIGENTLY THROUGH THE ALPS Fewer greenhouse gases Thanks to smart transportation solutions, with combined transport we save the environment up to 330 tons of CO 2 per year. Freight transportation is increasing, even in Europe. Most We offer our customers SAF UP, one of the goods are transported by road. The routes through the Alps lightest rail loading systems (air bellows), are particularly overstressed. A few years ago, at which ensures less wear and a longer service SAF -HOLLAND we already started shifting more and more of life. Additional accessories such as safety our transportation to and from Italy onto the railways. This ropes to protect the bellows during loading is referred to as “combined transport”. In other words, we are not required. With this product, we are use the advantages of road and rail by reloading the contributing to more environmentally semi-trailers from the truck onto freight trains at the loading friendly combined transport. terminals and then back onto the truck at rail terminals that are near the destination. For journeys of more than 300 kilometers, combined transport is both more economical and more environmentally friendly. We can solve three problems with one solution. First, we can significantly reduce greenhouse gases and thereby reduce CO 2 emissions along the route by two-thirds per truckload. Second, we can load four tons more weight per semi-trailer during rail transport, making journeys more efficient. In fact, every sixth trip can be dispensed with completely. Third, we help to relieve overstrained roads. We are now trying to use the combined truck-rail method for our trips to Spain or from Turkey. 8 Children protect the climate CHILDREN PROTECT THE CLIMATE, AND WE COMPENSATE FOR CO2 EMISSIONS We believe “Plant-for-the-Planet” is a fanthem for everything that the generations before them have tastic project. Which is why in 2018, left behind. However, as children, they have a great opportunity to learn fundamentally different behavior right from the SAF -HOLLAND once again trained children start and make climate protection a matter of course. This is from the region as climate ambassadors. the reason why, for the third consecutive year, Nearly 70 students participated. They SAF -HOLLAND has been supporting the “Plant-for-the-Planet” initiative, which plants trees worldwide. learned a great deal about climate protection and planted 150 trees. What did we do exactly? Twice a year, we invited students SAF -HOLLAND is also planting trees in between the ages of nine and twelve to a “Climate Academy”. Here they were trained to become “climate ambassaMexico. This is one way we are doing our dors” by other children and young people who were already part to compensate for greenhouse gases. familiar with the project. In the afternoon, everyone planted trees together with a forest ranger; after all, the initiative’s motto is “Stop Talking, Start Planting!”. So far, we have plantWe are very pleased that the Plant-for-theed more than 400 trees in the region of Aschaffenburg toPlanet project encourages and enables children gether with local schoolchildren. to actively promote environmental protection. This builds character, and they come to realize As far as compensating for greenhouse gas emissions, our that every individual counts. Children are our focus is currently on the Mexican peninsula of Yucatán, future, and they need a future. Naturally, we do where our donations have so far yielded some 104,000 not want to shift the entire responsibility to trees. Because each tree will absorb around 200 kilograms of Material flow management 9 CO 2 on average over the next 20 years, these trees will be able to extract more than one million kilograms of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere every year for many years. This initiative is helping us to establish the basis for making our company carbon-neutral. We appreciate the personal Reforestation feeds 100 forest workers and their famiexchange we have with Felix lies in Yucatán (Photos: Plant-for-the-Planet). Finkbeiner, the founder of the organization. Together with recognized experts, we At SAF -HOLLAND, we are determined to reduce the negative also scrutinize the standards for calculating greenhouse environmental impact of our business activities as much as posgas emissions and aim to create maximum transparency sible. We intend to do everything possible to further reduce in compensating for CO 2. Because, by no means, do we emissions during the service life of our products (see Chapter believe that we are relieved of our responsibility in our 2). We also want our processes to become even more efficient. day-to-day business merely through our commitment to That is why we are working intensively on the management of planting trees. our material flows. Project on material flow management shows that: SAF-HOLLAND PRODUCES EFFICIENTLY AND IS SAVING RESOURCES ENERGY In a manufacturing company like SAF -HOLLAND, there are many raw and other materials used daily in a variety of places. Making it as efficient and as resource-friendly as possible is not always easy. The first step in ensuring consistently lean producNO tion is to have a very accurate picture of the material flows in MATERIAL TRANSPARENCY PRODUCT the plants. This is what prompted us to volunteer to participate in a project sponsored by the ifu Institute for Environmental Informatics in Hamburg and the University of Applied Sciences in Berlin. The German Federal Environmental Foundation funded Sankey diagrams the project. Experts developed an app that enables the necesprovide a fully sary data to be recorded on the move and individual productransparent picture LOSSES tion processes to be analyzed individually. of the material and energy flows within the company. ENERGY This was then tested at our Bessenbach site, where the experts could rely on a draft for a bachelor’s thesis in our company. With the help of descriptive Sankey diagrams (see left), we were then able to see exactly where the main source of losses was P1 P2 and where we should take action if necessary. MATERIAL P4 PRODUCT P3 The good news was that the project confirmed that our production was already very lean. Still, we were shown ways in which we could further improve the sustainability of our processes. The project is scheduled to be completed in 2020. LOSSES 10 A new plant in China A NEW PLANT IN CHINA Equipped with high Our intention with the new SAF -HOLLAND plant in the Jiangsu Province of China is to keep our ecological footprint in the restandards for the future gion as minimal as possible. We also want to be prepared for the lower emission limits in the future. By constructing our own new building, we have the opportunity to take advantage of all In the second half of 2019, we will the efficiency-saving potential available, right from the start. open a new plant in Yangzhou, China. This has been our approach in China, and we are already doing more than required – eight to ten years ahead of time. In many areas, we will exceed the environmental standards currently Here are a few examples: required. Water management: We recapture 30 percent of our process water without a problem by keeping it in circulation. We will be able to increase this rate considerably over time. Technically, it is feasible that we could even reach a level of 70 percent. We have installed large collection tanks that hold 25,000 liters of service water that we intend to use to water green areas. The roofs and roof terraces are green, and we have even created a park. A new plant in China 11 At the Yangzhou site, all our product groups will be manufactured. These and other measures are our way of making our plant in Yangzhou an example in the region. With the best suppliers we can find locally, we can ensure the best possible production. It gives us a good feeling to know that we are preEnergy management: All of our systems use 15 percent less pared for the future and have done far more than just the energy compared to conventional technologies. Our air combare minimum for the environment and our employees. pressors, which are equipped with heat recovery and provide hot water for the sanitary rooms, use even 35 percent less. We operate the drying systems in the paint shop with infrared making it possible for us to generate heat precisely where it is needed. This also shortens throughput times and cuts our gas consumption by about 25 percent. Waste reduction: Recycling is a big issue for us in Germany. Therefore, we also want to recycle the solid waste produced at our new plant in China and work together only with qualified partners for disposal at the site. We do this to set a challenging precedent and make a positive contribution to environmental protection in the region. 12 1. Corporate Governance 1. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 1.1 OVERVIEW OF THE SAF-HOLLAND GROUP Globally oriented thinking and planning are integral parts of our corporate governance. SAF HOLLAND currently manuGRI 102-1, 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102-5, 102-6, 102-7, 102-10, factures products at 25 production sites in 15 countries 201-1 worldwide (see page 47), making us one of the most geographically diversified providers in our industry. With sales of EUR 1.3 billion in 2018 and 4,470 employees as of December 31, 2018, SAF HOLLAND S.A., based in LuxemWe supply original equipment to our customers on six contibourg, is the largest listed independent commercial vehicle nents and are present in the aftermarket through our supply supplier in Europe. Internationally, we are one of the leading of spare parts to the service networks. Our presence in these manufacturers of chassis-related components and systems markets enables us to meet the specific needs and requirefor trailers, trucks and buses. With around 10,000 spare parts ments of various customer groups, including vehicle manuand service stations, dealers and repair shops in more than facturers, service repair shops, spare parts distributors and 80 countries worldwide, SAF HOLLAND has one of the densfleet operators. est spare parts and service networks in the industry. Next to axle and suspension systems for trailers, our product portfoIn 2018, SAF HOLLAND continued to consolidate its market lio includes fifth wheel couplings, kingpins and landing gears. position with Group sales rising 14.2% to EUR 1,300.6 million (previous year: EUR 1,138.9 million). The Group's adjusted SAF -HOLLAND 's Product Brands EBIT was EUR 89.6 million (previous year: EUR 91.2 million) and the adjusted EBIT margin was 6.9% (previous year: 8.0 %). We generated approximately 87% of our total sales in the EMEA and Americas regions. Our 2020 growth strategy also Trailer axles and Towing an lifting Suspensions for defines clear priorities in the emerging markets where we see suspension systems technology vocational trucks and buses structural market growth that will turn into higher demand for trucks and trailers in the future. This growth presents particularly good market opportunities for our products. In view of the high demand for trailer components expected in the Chinese premium segment, we started the construction of a Air suspensions for Air suspensions for Coupling systems for production center in Yangzhou, China, in 2018. We also intrucks and buses and trucks and buses in trucks, semi-trailers, creased SAF HOLLAND 's presence in the Asia-Pacific region axles and suspension China trailers and special in the spring of 2018 with our acquisition of York Group, one systems for trailers applications in Brazil of the leading suppliers of trailer axles and suspension systems in the APAC /China region. During this same period, SAF HOLLAND acquired a majority stake in the coupling specialist V.ORLANDI S.p.A. As a result, Trailer axles and suspension systems we have expanded our product portfolio and can now offer coupling systems for special applications such as agricultural, forestry and mining vehicles. SAUER ® In mid-2018, SAF HOLLAND acquired a majority stake in the QUALITY PARTS British telematics and connectivity specialist, Axscend Ltd. Through this acquisition, SAF HOLLAND has been able to SAF-HOLLAND SAUER QUALITY PARTS and strengthen its software and programming expertise and, at ORIGINAL PARTS GOLD LINE QUALITY PARTS the same time, expand its portfolio of technology for digital trailer applications. is the aftermarket brand for are the aftermarket brands for our quality products develour premium products deoped and tested as the industry standard. WORLDWIDE MEGATRENDS PRESENT OPPORTUNITIES veloped and tested to meet SAF HOLLAND always keeps a close watch on global mega­ the most stringent requirements. trends in the transport industry and incorporates these trends into its innovation management. Particular challeng1. Corporate Governance 13 es arise from the anticipated need for global mobility alongIn 2018, we joined the United Nations Global Compact, which side increasingly stringent regulatory requirements, such as underscored for all stakeholders the importance of sustainalimits on CO 2 emissions. bility issues at our company. We see our commitment to the United Nations' largest global initiative for responsible corpoFuture global economic growth is likely to be driven specifirate governance as an important step towards strengthening cally by the increase in the purchasing power of the middle SAF HOLLAND 's long-term commitment to sustainability. class. A higher level of prosperity will lead to a rising demand for additional transport volumes and, consequently, SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT WITHIN THE SCOPE more freight traffic, especially in urban centers. Since OF CORPORATE LEADERSHIP growth will take place predominantly on the road, the deGRI 102-18 mand for trucks and trailers for freight transport will also grow in the future, opening up additional sales opportuniThe Corporate Social Responsibility Council (CSR Council) is ties for SAF HOLLAND. the governing body that defines the strategic guidelines for the continued evolution of sustainability management within Resource scarcity, urban air pollution and increasing global the SAF HOLLAND Group. Sustainability management inclimate change are likely to place more regulatory pressure cludes not only CSR reporting but also integrating sustainaon the transport sector. Stricter air quality regulations, taxbility issues into the Group's everyday business activities, es and emissions trading are becoming potential cost drivsuch as product and portfolio development, communication, ers. In addition, the sustainability requirements of customsocial involvement and employee awareness. The Council ers are rising at the same time. also discusses current topics with CSR relevance. SAF HOLLAND is prepared for these changes because it acThe CEO leads the task of defining and implementing corretively monitors current trends. The legal regulations on sponding sustainability goals. The CEO also heads the CSR emissions, for example, are seen not only as an obligation Council, which is responsible for implementing the actions but more so as an opportunity. In contributing to a reducnecessary to achieve the agreed objectives. tion in the environmental impact in urban centers through our products, we are also preparing our business for the fuThe CSR Council is comprised of members with different nature (see Chapter 2 for more industry-specific trends). tionalities from various departments. The Council consists of senior representatives from the areas of Aftermarket, Com1.2 S USTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AT pliance, Controlling, Health, Safety, Environment and Quality SAF-HOLLAND Management (HSEQ ), Human Resources, Investor Relations, Logistics, Marketing, Operations, Procurement and Research G RI 102-16, 102-12 & Development (see page 19). External experts are brought in to provide additional input. We have realized that our aim to develop the best products for our customers, our society and our environment, goes One of the CSR Council's main priorities in the reporting perihand-in-hand with developing the most innovative solutions. od was to develop a group-wide sustainability strategy and We achieve this by taking a holistic view of the value chain. integrate recently acquired companies by recording their relThrough our efficient use of resources, we reduce the envievant sustainability indicators. ronmental impact of production to a minimum. Because our products have their largest environmental impact during their The position of CSR Officer was also created and filled in the service life, we have also made this one of our focal points. financial year to support the group-wide coordination and Here is where our claim of “Best-in-Class” takes tangible form communication of the key sustainability topics and to initiate as we enable our customers to save fuel using our lightweight additional sustainability activities. The CSR Officer reports concepts, lower their direct costs and reduce downtimes due directly to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). to the exceptional longevity of our products. With sustainable products and efficient production processes, we are combinMATERIALITY ANALYSIS: THE FOUNDATION FOR STRAing economic principles with ecological actions. This not only TEGIC DEVELOPMENT helps us save resources and conserve the environment, it also GRI 102-46, 102-47, 102-49 creates additional value for our company in a way that can be measured monetarily. In 2017, the sustainability topics relevant to the company were identified by means of a materiality analysis. This analysis was carried out within the scope of in-house workshops 14 1. Corporate Governance Organizational anchoring of sustainability at SAF -HOLLAND Group GROUP MANAGEMENT BOARD Strategy Development Reports Identification of relevant topics STRATEGIC PROJECT CSR COUNCIL DEVELOPMENT Monitoring of KPI s, Validation Senior Executives Jury of savings Involvement of all employess DEPARTMENTS Implementation of the projects and involved the direct participation of the Group Manageery). The following five issues have been defined as material ment Board and a survey of 50 stakeholders from the EMEA for the company in its CSR reporting: CO 2 emissions, occupaand Americas regions. The analysis determined the internal tional safety, human rights, anti-corruption/-bribery and and external relevance of more than 100 sustainability issues. product safety. All of the relevant stakeholder groups were taken into account when selecting the stakeholders to be surveyed. BeCOMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS TO SECURE cause SAF HOLLAND sees customers as a particularly high THE FUTURE priority, special attention was given to ensuring that suitable GRI 102-13, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 customers participated in the survey. The ongoing dialog with our stakeholders gives us important Thirteen priority issues from the areas of corporate governinsight into how we can position SAF HOLLAND even more ance, products, the environment, employees and social ensustainably in all important aspects and lead the company in gagement were identified and mapped in a materiality matrix a market-driven manner. The key stakeholders identified for (see figure page 15). The vertical axis of this matrix shows the SAF HOLLAND were customers in the Original Equipment importance of sustainability topics at SAF HOLLAND from the Manufacturing and Aftermarket segments, as well as suppliperspective of the stakeholders surveyed. The horizontal axis ers, employees, local residents, investors, financing partners, shows the materiality of these issues from the perspective of science representatives, politicians and public authorities. the company. We exchange with interested parties in one-on-one discusWe intend to update the materiality analysis every two years. sions, at conferences, through our membership in initiatives, In 2019, we plan to identify the materiality of sustainability our participation in forums, and through the publication of issues in our four business regions in order to better reflect press releases. We communicate regularly with our customthe different socio-cultural factors within those regions. We ers and suppliers by attending trade fairs, holding customer will incorporate the findings of this analysis into our global and supplier days, conducting surveys and answering inquirsustainability strategy and also take them into account in our ies. Our communication with our employees takes place 2025 corporate strategy. within the scope of development talks, our Idea Management program, internal media, company meetings and emThe materiality analysis also helps to identify the information ployee surveys. We offer plant visits and neighborhood disnecessary for understanding our business performance, opercussions to nearby residents. We also encourage cooperation ating results and the impact our activities have on the various and exchange with those in science and research through aspects specified in the CSR reporting requirements (environmemberships, collaborations, foundations and lectures. mental, labor, social, human rights, anti-corruption and brib1. Corporate Governance 15 Materiality matrix for SAF -HOLLAND Group Extremely important Customer satisfaction & customer focus 5 4 Safe products Privacy & Stakeholder’s perspective IT security 7 Innovative & sustainable products Employer attractiveness & employer branding 12 2 Human rights 3 1 Compliance & corporate governance Sustainable supplier management 6 10 Health & occupational safety 11 8 Employee development Energy & & training Waste & wastewater 9 emissions Very important Social commitment 13 Very important Extremely important Company’s perspective MATERIAL TOPICS Governance Economic Environment Social 1 Compliance & corporate 4 Safe products 7 Innovative & sustainable 10 Health & occupational governance products safety 5 Customer satisfaction & 2 Privacy & IT security customer focus 8 Energy & emissions 11 Employee development & training 3 Human rights 6 Sustainable supplier 9 Waste & wastewater management 12 Employer attractiveness & employer branding 13 Social commitment 1.3 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE Nevertheless, the Board of Directors and the Group Management Board are committed to responsible and transparent VOLUNTARY COMMITMENT TO ETHICAL CORPORATE corporate governance, business integrity, sustainability and GOVERNANCE ethical values. SAF HOLLAND has therefore chosen to follow GRI 102-12, 102-18 the recommendations and suggestions of the German Corporate Governance Codex on a voluntary basis, to the extent SAF HOLLAND S.A. is a company governed by Luxembourg that this is compatible with the corporate laws in Luxemlaw. Therefore, the management and control of the company bourg and the company's one-tier structure. Our Declaration deviate from the organizational structure of a German stock of Conformity with the German Corporate Governance Cocorporation. Whereas German corporate law provides for a dex can be viewed online at https://corporate.safholland. two-tier structure consisting of a Management Board and Sucom/en/company/about-us/corporate-governance/corpopervisory Board, a Societé Anonyme's management strucrate-governance. ture is based on the one-tier model of the Anglo-American board system. Further information on SAF HOLLAND 's corporate governance can be found in the corresponding section of the Annual As a Luxembourg-based Societé Anonyme (S.A.) listed solely Report. in Germany, SAF HOLLAND is not subject to the corporate governance standards in either Luxembourg or Germany. 16 1. Corporate Governance TRUST THROUGH COMPLIANCE to the Audit Committee about any progress made with comGRI 102-16, 205/103, 206/103, 307/103, 406/103, 408/103, pliance issues and any future plans. 409/103, 412/103, 418/103, 419/103, 206-1 To ensure that all employees are involved in the compliance We define compliance as trust-based, reliable and sustainaeffort, we plan to integrate a compliance-training module ble corporate governance derived from ethical values. The into our existing e-learning program. We will also revise our Board of Directors is responsible for compliance with the law Signature Guidelines and Employee Benefit Policy, as well as and the company's policies and seeks the same level of comour Global Code of Conduct. pliance from the subsidiaries. GROUP-WIDE CORPORATE CODE OF CONDUCT We use our Compliance Management, Compliance Unit, PROVIDES CERTAINTY OF ACTION Compliance Committee and the Code of Conduct, to address Our compliance requirements are contained in the compaactual and potential compliance risks. We also consider comny's Code of Conduct. The company, its management team, pliance risks within the scope of our risk management sysas well as each and every employee are required to abide by tem. this code. There were no known violations of the Code of Conduct during the financial year. The objective of our compliance management is the establishment and ongoing improvement of preventive measures The Code of Conduct regulates (but is not limited to) the folwithin the business processes, as well as the early detection lowing: and clarification of possible violations. The design and effectiveness of compliance management are subjects addressed −−the prohibition of unlawful business practices, such as anby Internal Audit. ti-competitive agreements, bribery, corruption and insider trading In the financial year, we optimized compliance management with new, extensive and automated processes. The focus was −−the prohibition of unlawful discrimination, child or forced on dealing with insider information, securities transactions of labor and infringement of third-party intellectual properexecutives and the handling of compliance violations. These ty processes were added to our internal process management handbook and all employees were informed accordingly. We −−the right of all employees to fair treatment and adherence also introduced Rules of Procedure at our subsidiaries. At the to occupational safety guidelines level of the S.A. there were further efforts made with respect to the work at the BoD level. The Code of Conduct is available in the English and German languages. During the 2018 financial year, we conducted an Our Compliance unit serves as the first and central point of analysis of the current compliance risks and used these findcontact for compliance issues and at the same time is responings to update the Code of Conduct. The revised Code will be sible for implementing compliance management policies. introduced and rolled out in the various regions in 2019. The This unit reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer (CFO). SAF HOLLAND Code of Conduct is publicly available on our website at https://corporate.safholland.com/en/sustainabilWe set up a Compliance Committee in the reporting year ity/management-compliance/code-of-conduct. whose task is to follow up on indications of potential compliance violations. The Committee consists of permanent memPREVENTION OF LEGAL VIOLATIONS bers, as well as internal guest members who are invited for GRI 102-17, 412/103, 206-1, 307-1, 412-1, 419-1 specific cases. The standing committee consists of the Data Protection Officer, the Group Chief Accountant and repreEach year, at all of our locations, we carry out quality audits sentatives from the Compliance, Corporate Audit Services focused on compliance issues in environmental and social arand Human Resources departments. eas, including the aspect of human rights. These audits cover each business unit, as well as our entire workforce. The Audit Committee also deals with issues related to compliance management and is staffed by members of the Board of In 2018, we introduced an electronic whistleblower system Directors. The Compliance unit and the CFO report regularly to give all employees and external parties the opportunity to report violations within or by the company. Reports can be 1. Corporate Governance 17 made anonymously if desired. Our Compliance unit follows keep all of our executives regularly informed (at least once up on all of the tips received immediately. Access to the whisevery year or as required) about the Group's applicable rules tleblower system is available through our website at https:// of conduct and policy on corruption through internal chancorporate.safholland.com/en/sustainability/corporatenels of communication. governance-compliance/report-compliance-incidents. The whistle­blower system is available in the German, English There were no cases of corruption or bribery detected at and Chinese languages. This new system was presented to SAF HOLLAND or its business partners during the 2018 finanour executives at our 2018 International Meeting and they cial year. were encouraged to share that information with their staff. HIGH STANDARDS SET FOR DATA PROTECTION AND During the 2018 financial year, SAF HOLLAND was not aware DATA SECURITY of any breaches of laws, statutes or regulations in the social GRI 418/103, 418-1 or environmental areas. In the economic area, ongoing legal proceedings regarding a suspected breach of competition The stringent management of data protection and data secuand anti-trust law in 2018 were still pending at the time of the rity is essential, in our opinion, to secure the long-term confieditorial date of this report. There was no case in which sigdence of our stakeholders. An extensive process managenificant fines or non-monetary sanctions were imposed on ment handbook describing the data protection processes, the SAF HOLLAND Group. the IT guidelines for general data security, the proper use of computers and the Internet and the IT concept for emergenRESPECTING AND UPHOLDING HUMAN RIGHTS cies is available at our German locations. GRI 408/103, 409/103, 412/103, 406-1, 408-1, 409-1 The Data Protection Officer provides support and advice on Respect for human rights is a natural prerequisite for responhow to implement data protection requirements and trains sible business management at SAF HOLLAND. We expect employees using our Learning-Management-System. The each and every one of our employees to be pro-active in proData Protection Officer is assigned to the Compliance unit, tecting human rights so that violations can be ruled out enbut reports directly to the company's executive managetirely when it comes to our company's business activities. ment. This is a goal that is also highlighted in our Code of Conduct. At SAF HOLLAND, we have established the appropriate interThe potential risk of any child or forced labor at any of our nal processes in a timely manner to comply with the requirelocations is generally taken into account within the scope of ments of the European General Data Protection Regulation our audits. We do not see any elevated risk of child or forced (EU GDPR ), which has been in place since May 2018. Our emlabor at any of the SAF HOLLAND Group locations. ployees and business partners (“contract data processors”) are also obliged to comply with the new data protection rules SAF HOLLAND was also not aware of any cases of human based on supplemental agreements. rights violations within the scope of its own business activities during the reporting period. A Quick Check was also carried out during the financial year by the employers' association in addition to an external reAVOIDING CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY view of our cyber security system to test its vulnerability to GRI 205/103, 205-2, 205-3 unauthorized access. We also plan to develop and automate the workflow to comply with the data protection policies. We are committed to ensuring that all of our locations are free of any form of corruption or bribery. Our position with SAF HOLLAND was not made aware of any cases of data leakrespect to such activities is also stated in our Code of Conage, theft or loss of customer data during the 2018 financial duct. Our “Guideline on Dealing with Benefits to and from year and did not receive any complaints in this respect. A sinBusiness Partners” specifies the rules that apply to the gle incident did lead to a data security threat, but the loss of Group. Generally, employees are prohibited from offering or any data was avoided by taking appropriate action. granting personal benefits in return for consideration or to requesting or accepting these from business partners. Any We provided data protection training to a total of 368 embenefits allowed in excess of EUR 30 are required to be disployees in 2018 through our Learning-Management-System. closed in the interest of transparency and prevention. We 18 1. Corporate Governance 1.4 RESPONSIBILITY ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN CLEAR REQUIREMENTS FOR SUPPLIERS GRI 308/103, 407/103, 408/103, 409/103, 414/103, 407-1, 408-1, GRI 102-9, 102-10, 204/103 409-1 Our relatively low level of vertical integration in manufacturWe place a great degree of importance on ensuring that ing makes it easy for us to respond to technical innovations SAF HOLLAND 's high environmental, social and product and trends by refocusing our procurement strategy and makstandards are also upheld by our suppliers at their own sites. ing changes to our supplier structure. To secure the necesWe are therefore developing a Supplier Code of Conduct that sary supply at the best financial conditions available, is intended to clearly state our opposition to unethical busiSAF HOLLAND maintains a diverse group of suppliers and ness practices such as corruption and child or forced labor follows a multi-supplier strategy. When special situations ocand, at the same time, promote a free, fair and transparent cur, SAF HOLLAND relies on a proprietary emergency manmarketplace. agement system that was implemented in the purchasing department. Since the majority of our Tier 1 suppliers operate in developed economies that are subject to high regulatory standWith the increase in the digitization of products in the truck ards, we do not anticipate any of these suppliers posing a and trailer sector, SAF HOLLAND will come into contact with significant compliance risk in terms of our social and environthe electronics industry more often in the future. We are almental standards. ready preparing for this by building the digital product expertise necessary for strategic sourcing in procurement. To be able to qualify as a supplier to SAF HOLLAND, candidates are required to undergo a multi-stage admission proIn 2019, our previously decentralized purchasing activities cess that begins with a self-assessment. After evaluating this will be bundled together and managed centrally for the first assessment, selected suppliers are audited locally at their time. The management of these centralized purchasing activsites by employees from SAF HOLLAND 's quality departities will be taken over by the newly created position of Chief ment. Procurement Officer (CPO). The CPO will be responsible for all future strategic and operating purchasing activities worldOur existing suppliers also undergo regular audits; for examwide. ple, in the 2018 financial year, we audited 17% of our suppliers of production materials in the EMEA region. In the 2018 financial year, a total of 988 suppliers served our locations in the EMEA region, 146 served the locations in the There were no breaches of the supply chain principles outAPAC /China region (scope of consolidation: China), and 1,874 lined in our Code of Conduct identified during the year – inserved our Americas locations. We made it a point to regioncluding negative environmental effects, the use of child or ally source the materials needed whenever this was reasonaforced labor or violations of the right to freedom of associable and possible. tion and collective bargaining. Number of suppliers to SAF -HOLLAND Group per region 2018 2017 2016 EMEA region 988 1,005 914 Americas region 1,874 1,923 2,021 APAC /China* region 146 – – Of which, new suppliers in the FY EMEA region 291 181 155 Americas region 124 391 379 APAC /China* region 7 – – * Scope of consolidation: China 1. Corporate Governance 19 2019 will mark the first year that CSR -relevant issues are included in the supplier self-assessment for the EMEA region. Issues in the assessment will include environmental issues (CO 2 emissions and energy consumption), social issues (occupational safety), employee development, the exclusion of child labor, as well as disclosures on compliance management and corporate governance. This expanded self-assessment is intended to be used to conduct supplier evaluations in the other regions in an effort to harmonize our purchasing structures. Representatives of core processes and support functions form the CSR Council HSEQ COMPLIANCE CONTROLLING R&D PROCUREMENT OPERATIONS LOGISTICS AFTERMARKET HUMAN MARKETING RESOURCES € INVESTOR RELATIONS 20 2. Products 2. PRODUCTS Every fleet operator worldwide is faced with the challenge In addition to routine market surveys and keeping a sharp of delivering on time, ensuring customer satisfaction and, at eye on market trends, we also communicate directly with the same time, dealing with massive cost pressure. In this fleet operators and vehicle manufacturers on a continual type of environment, it is important to limit downtimes and basis. This regular exchange with customers helps us to reckeep unit costs per mile under control. Accomplishing this ognize their needs quickly and immediately incorporate requires reliable partners. This is one reason why customers them into our product development. As part of our upcomworldwide rely on SAF HOLLAND products. As the largest ing materiality analysis in 2019, we plan to carry out a surlisted commercial vehicle supplier in Europe, SAF HOLLAND vey addressing product development issues to give our deaspires to be the most valued supplier of Best-in-Class comvelopers an even more detailed description of what our ponents, systems and services – which is why we make our customers are looking for. products safe, lightweight, durable and competitively priced. We are currently in the process of establishing a standardized innovation management program at the company. Dur2.1. S USTAINABLE EXPANSION IN OUR ing the reporting year, one of the focal points of this project TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP was the development of a product roadmap that links future areas of focus with the availability of product lines over The key trends in the transportation sector include alternatime. This roadmap is continuously evolving as part of a dytive drive concepts, digitization, networking and autononamic development process. mous driving. As a result, our product developers are working on a number of topics such as electro mobility, In 2018, SAF HOLLAND presented its innovative new prodtelematics, sensors, interfaces, big data and their analysis, ucts to a broader public at the IAA Commercial Vehicles – as well as automated systems. the world's largest trade fair for this industry. An overview of the IAA product presentations is available at http://iaa. The ultimate goal of our research and development activisafholland.org/. ties is to optimize our customers' total cost of ownership through innovative products and ensure the efficient opera2.2. O UR AMBITION – MAXIMUM PRODUCT tion of their fleets. To do this, we essentially rely on lightSAFETY weight design concepts and weight savings, which not only reduce operating costs but also increase the vehicles' payGRI 102-13, 416/103, 416-2 loads. We also employ digital solutions to make our products more efficient and, at the same time, more cost-effecSAF HOLLAND products promise maximum safety on the tive to use. road. We have clearly stated this ambition, and it applies to all our products. In order to ensure and further increase our In 2018, we invested 1.8% (previous year: 2.2%) of our sales high level of product safety, we set ourselves strict guidein research and development. Our expenses, which amountlines and ensure these are met, for example, through proded to EUR 23.9 million, were 2.8% lower than in the previous uct conformity tests at external testing institutes to make year (EUR 24.6 million in 2017). At the end of the 2018 finansure our products fulfill the regulatory and safety-relevant cial year, we employed a total of 199 people (previous year: approval requirements. 175) worldwide in the areas of development, design and testing. Multi-year overview of research and development 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 R&D expenses including capitalized development costs (in EUR millions) 23.9 24.6 23.4 24.6 21.9 R&D ratio (expenses in % of sales) 1.8 2.2 2.2 2.3 2.3 Number of employees in the areas of development, design and testing 199 175 192 191 171 2. Products 21 PRODUCT EXAMPLES Our high standards and strong commitment go beyond the regulatory standards. In the year under review, all of our products met the legal safety standards, and we were not issued any warnings or fines. QUALITY TESTING ALONG THE VALUE CHAIN We follow a holistic approach to quality management, and we do this along the entire value chain – from the design, testing and production phases to the final delivery to the customer. All product categories are continuously monitored for any potential improvements that can still be made to our product safety. We also require our suppliers to comply with strict standards and review them regularly (see Chapter 1.4). The HOLLAND FW35TT fifth wheel was specially developed for terminal tractors. The TwinLock design helps Multi-stage quality checks ensure the safety of products make coupling operations quicker and safer. The new even as they go through the development phase. Typical double-acting air cylinder offers more coupling security quality checks range from failure mode and effects analysis via an integrated “lock-down” mode that is automatically (FMEA design), virtual FEM simulations (finite element activated when the driver releases the trailer brakes. The method) and calculations, to testing applications in the vefifth wheel has additional ribs built into the kingpin throat hicle on test tracks and field trials under real world condiarea and an enhanced bridge for significantly higher load tions. We are also working on finding a correlation between capacity. The additional reinforced cover plate made of a the calculations in computer-aided engineering (CAE ) and high-strength steel alloy also extends the life of the fifth experimental testing with real-time continuous load simulawheel. tions. This involves a global comparison of the trial to CAE test results in extensive field trials. SAF HOLLAND is also involved in a variety of working groups and committees such as The American Trucking Association's TMC (Technology & Maintenance Council), the VDA (German Automotive Industry Association) and CLEPA (European Association of Automotive Suppliers). The safety and quality of our products are controlled during the manufacturing process through our proven quality management system based on internationally recognized norms and standards. As part of our quality management system, we apply specially designed monitoring mechanisms, carry out tests and implement individually adapted measures at The new SAF INTRA CD TRAK has been optimized for each stage of production. 72% of our 25 production sites are trailers in the 9t standard range for both on-road and offcertified according to the ISO 9001: 2015 quality manageroad applications and was specifically developed for tipment standard. An overview of our site certifications is pers and sliding floors at construction sites or landfills. At shown on page 47. the touch of a button, the hydraulically driven trailer axle supports the tractor as a traction aid on inclines and difZERO-DEFECT STRATEGY MOVES SUCCESSFULLY ficult terrain. The special motor develops the power reFORWARD quired precisely where it is needed. The powered axle SAF HOLLAND has been pursuing a zero-defect strategy carries the full axle load and is able to transmit the entire since 2016 as part of an effort to minimize the occurrence of drive torque. The motor is not only very durable but also product errors. To come as close as possible to our target of low maintenance, giving the new trailer axle a long ser“0 errors”, we had the various departments work even closvice life. er together in 2018 to come up with strategies and courses of action to generate added synergies. 22 2. Products PRODUCT EXAMPLE sustainability performance of our products, as shown by the life cycle assessment of the SAF Intra Disc Plus II Integral. The assessment revealed that 97% of the environmental impact of our axle aggregates during their service life is a result of the combustion of diesel fuel. An overview of SAF HOLLAND 's efforts to achieve continual weight reduction is shown by the example using a brake system in the figure on page 23. The trailer telematics solution TrailerMaster, which was At SAF HOLLAND, sustainability at the product level means acquired in the reporting year through the acquisition of maintaining the product's functionality over its entire serAxscend Ltd., makes our products even safer and allows fleet operators to get the most from their resources. The PRODUCT EXAMPLE key integrative functionalities include the lighting function control, the load test and optimization, the maintenance condition check, the data evaluation from the tire pressure monitoring system and EBS, as well as the GPS data transmission for trailer tracking. Data transmission and evaluation is also possible in an uncoupled state. The brake system's patented performance data, and status evaluation even eliminates the need for testing on the brake test bench due to its reliability and recognition by the authorities in Great Britain. In addition, the TrailerMaster offers a maintenance planning tool that automatically informs the fleet manager when a trailer needs to be routinely serviced, or the tires need to be checked. A newly developed status display shows the current vehicle We developed the SBS 2220 H0 disc brake (available from status of each fleet trailer in the form of a traffic light sysQ1 of 2011 until Q4 of 2018) and the H01 disc brake tem and thus indicates when action is required. (available since Q1 of 2019) in close cooperation with the Swedish brake system specialist Haldex. By optimizing the brake caliper, we have been able to reduce the weight by We also created the role of “Service Analyst” in 2018, which 33 kg or in combination with a new hub design by 60 kg is the interface between the purchasing, quality and develper trailer compared to the BI9-22W reference system opment departments. The Service Analyst evaluates the (see figure on page 23). The brake pads remained the field results and derives potential measures for improvesame, as did the superior brake performance and long ment. These recommendations flow into the development service life. After these improvements, approximately process and are passed on to suppliers to form a continuous 12.8 million gallons of diesel fuel were saved by the trailoptimization process that helps reduce errors in the differers produced in the period 2011-2018, which is equivalent ent areas. The data emerging from the components are to an annual CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalent) footprint of evaluated and discussed regularly at interdisciplinary round around 875 households (in Germany).1 tables. 2.3. S AF-HOLLAND PRODUCTS REDUCE FUEL CONSUMPTION vice life and ensuring that spare parts are continuously available. This is why we place a high importance on longevGRI 302/103, 305/103, 302-5, 305-5 ity and ease of repair as early as in the product development phase. We also help to bring down the customer's total cost We strive to reduce the environmental impact – such as of ownership (TCO ) over the longest service life of our prodgreenhouse gas emissions – from our products as much as ucts possible. This also involves reducing the use of the pripossible throughout their lifecycle. With our consistent use mary raw materials, which not only has a positive impact on of lightweight construction, we reduce fuel consumption our upstream value chain but also reduces waste. One of and thereby the CO 2 emissions of our products during their the changes we made this year to further improve the lonservice life. This has a substantially positive effect on the 2. Products 23 gevity of our products, was to replace zinc metal spraying demonstrate the advantages of our products to our customwith a corrosion-protective powder coating. ers in an even more transparent way. We are currently carrying out simulations on the operating We also work together with our customers and suppliers on strategy of our e-mobility components and the resulting reoptimizing product-related sustainability criteria within the duction in fuel consumption. This will enable us to measure scope of strategic partnerships. the future viability of our product range so that we can An example of weight reduction in the SAF -HOLLAND product world Reference: IU25/2000 33 BI9-22W BI922S SBS2220 H0 SBS2220 H01 New hub design New brake and wheel head as of Q1/11 Time [a] until Q4/10 as of Q2/15: also K0 as of Q1/19 as of Q4/20 33 kg Weight saving per trailer [kg] 60 kg 68 kg History of the weight savings per semi-trailer achieved from improvements made in the period 2010-2020. The reference system selected was INTRA IU 25/2000 33 BI 9-22W. By optimizing the brake caliper in close cooperation with Haldex, it was possible to save 33 kg of weight per trailer as of Q1 2011 by introducing the SBS 2220 H0 model (as of Q2 2015: also K0, Knorr Bremse AG ). Further optimization allowed for an additional reduction in the trailer's weight of 27 kg by means of the caliper SBS 2220 H01 in combination with a new hub design starting with Q1 2019. The combination of a new brake and a new wheel head will result in further weight savings of 8 kg as of Q4 2020. As a result, it was possible to reduce the trailer's weight by 68 kg compared to the reference system. 1 A  ssumption: 11.6 t of CO 2e per citizen according to UBA CO 2-calculator, two persons per household in 2017 according to Destatis, three axles per trailer with an annual distance traveled of 120,000 km (lastauto omnibus trade journal 2018), a lifecycle of seven years (SAF HOLL AND ), a less consumption factor highway of 0.059 l 100 km -1 100 kg-1 (Ricardo 2010/15) and diesel Well-to-Wheel data (thinkstep GaBi 2019). 24 2. Products PRODUCT EXAMPLE ements that add value in terms of safety, reliability and usability for a large number of our products. SAF HOLLAND works closely with its customers to ensure that the products developed are compelling and meet customer requirements. All of the initiatives at SAF HOLLAND aimed at promoting the link between mechanics and electronics fall under the headline “SMART STEEL – ENGINEER , BUILD, CONNECT.” During the 2018 financial year, we made further progress on the development of new, digitized products. Our focus was The HOLLAND FW3214-W is the first 14 t frame-integratonce again on autonomous coupling systems, language ased fifth wheel that was developed in close cooperation sistance (based on bi-directional voice control), the integrawith Mercedes-Benz Trucks. The fifth wheel coupling for tion of augmented reality for repairs as well as trailer axles the Mercedes-Benz Actros and Antos trucks, featuring with electric drives for recuperation. We also continued to coupling plates made of nodular cast iron, offers a combuild our expertise in 2018 through strategic acquisitions plete, weight and load-optimized solution. By positioning such as the British digital trailer specialist Axscend Ltd. (see the coupling directly inside the vehicle frame and matchChapter 1). ing it to the tractor as best as possible, it achieves a significantly higher level of payload potential compared to similar products. The product distinguishes itself from others PRODUCT EXAMPLE through its use of loadand wear-optimized sliding plates. It is also low-maintenance and service-friendly, and can be safely and comfortably operated with one hand. 2.4 D IGITAL INNOVATION – SAF-HOLLAND MAKES THE TRAILER SMART While digital applications have already been established in the automotive product world, the digital transformation in the commercial vehicle sector, with its long innovation cycles, is taking more time. A growing number of customers in this segment are also tapping into the advantages of digital products. Telematics solutions provide fleet operators with added transparency when it comes to their fleets. Fleet opIn 2018, we redesigned our “SH-Connect” app for fleet erators, in turn, take this knowledge and make themselves operators, repair shops and spare parts dealers and addmore competitive. ed new functions. One of the abilities of this app is to scan the QR codes on SAF-HOLLAND components and SAF HOLLAND has responded to the arrival of digital transthen display the corresponding references to the spare formation in the transportation industry by setting up its parts in SAF-HOLLAND's “Parts-on-Demand” spare parts own digital team. One of the tasks of this team is to identify catalog for a specific product. It is now also possible to and explore important areas for product digitization. The use the app to find authorized repair shops and the neardigital team is also responsible for developing digitally foest spare parts dealers via GPS. Supporting information cused lighthouse projects. By undertaking these activities, such as individual spare parts and service documentation, we are also breaking new ground and promoting the digital as well as our repair shop manuals, are also available. The networking of commercial vehicles with their users. We security of customer data is ensured through well-estabhave already been able to expand our core mechanical calished data protection processes, even when the app is in pabilities through the addition of electronic and sensory eluse (see Chapter 1.3). 2. Products 25 Training courses at the SAF -HOLLAND Academy provide up-to-date know-how on aggregates, axles, fifth wheels and brake systems using a multitude of repair stations. 2.5. A STRONG CUSTOMER-ORIENTED CULTURE Periodic customer surveys provide us with information about the success of our customer-oriented approach. In the 2018 Close proximity to the customer is one of our key concerns. financial year, the findings from the last survey were allocatOur global network of distribution centers helps us to ensure ed to the different customer groups and integrated accordthat we can quickly and reliably deliver our products to cusingly into the ongoing processes. tomers and service points at all times. Our sales and product management teams work together to record the important parameters that emerge from their interactions with customers. These parameters are later discussed in inter-departmental meetings and taken into account during the development process. We also align our joint sales efforts to our customers' needs. Crucial factors for our OEM customers include product price and safety, as well as timely and error-free delivery. Error-free spare parts identification (also via the QR code) and a convenient ordering process, such as our “Parts-on-Demand” system, are important for our aftermarket customers. Our in-house repair manuals and videos support repairs. In the case of our fleet customers, a dense, worldwide service network is just as crucial as the error-free delivery of spare parts when it comes to minimizing vehicle downtimes. Service customers appreciate a simple process for handling warranty claims, a solid product training program and the incorporation of knowledge about what is happening in the field. 26 2. Products SATISFIED CUSTOMERS THROUGH OPTIMAL CARE AND TRAINING We use our communication with our customers to assess their level of satisfaction and adapt our customer service where necessary. Customer communication takes place in the context of surveys, plant tours, trade fairs, open house days and training. The “SH-Connect”-App also supports the communication and exchange of data with our customers digitally. At SAF-HOLLAND, we attach great importance to customer training because it gives us an opportunity to instruct clients on the proper maintenance, use and repair of our systems and to inform them specifically about our new products and components. We also offer basic and advanced training programs on selected topics in the areas of service, spare parts, technology and wholesale. We can also simulate everyday situations that can occur in automotive engineering and in the repair shop through a handson approach using training trailers equipped with components from all types of assemblies in the SAF-HOLLAND product range. The training courses take place at our training center, which was opened in 2016, or they are held at our SAF-HOLLAND Academy in Aschaffenburg (see page 25), or at regional education centers. A total of 144 participants completed training at the SAF-HOLLAND Academy in the reporting period. In 2018, our training program was expanded to include the modules “SERVICE Advanced Course”, “SYSTEM TRAINING – Trailing and Positive Steering Axles”, “SYSTEM TRAINING – Powered Axles (SAF-HOLLAND TRAK)” and “BRAKE TECHNOLOGY Repair”. 3. Corporate Environmental Protection 27 3. CORPORATE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION At SAF HOLLAND, preventive environmental protection is a of SAF HOLLAND's German locations according to the ISO core element of corporate responsibility. We make it our ut14001 environmental standard. We also used our Learnmost priority to avoid environmental risks and use energy ing-Management-System to inform employees about the and raw materials sparingly at all locations worldwide. We importance of this process and raise their awareness create ecological added value through our efficient processabout this topic. In the medium term, we plan to have all of es and closed resource cycles and, at the same time, reduce our major production sites certified in accordance with ISO our costs. 14001. An overview of our site certifications is shown on page 47. 3.1. E NVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT – THE PROCESSES AT A GLANCE 3.2. M EASURING ENERGY DATA FOR MORE TRANSPARENCY GRI 302/103, 303/103, 305/103, 306/103 GRI 302/103, 302-1 The direct environmental impact of SAF HOLLAND's production is comparatively low. The environmental effects of Our energy use is mainly production-related with the greatour products arise during their use. We therefore feel we est use coming from the operation of kilns, heating systems, have a responsibility to develop innovative products with machines, suction devices and compressors. the minimum ecological footprint possible (see Chapter 2.3). SAF HOLLAND voluntarily adheres to the agreement made between the German Federal Government and German inCorporate environmental protection includes both the efdustry for increasing energy efficiency. Our locations in Besficient use of resources in production and the continuous senbach, Aschaffenburg and Singen are certified according analysis and optimization of processes to determine their to the DIN EN ISO 50001 energy management standard. effects on climate and environment. We concentrate on Based on a rolling two-year target period, we set realistic avoiding and minimizing any potential environmental imtargets for the reduction of our total energy usage accordpact through our use of integrated and additive technoloing to the current trend in energy data. We are currently gies. We place our focus on the recycling of operating and measuring the progress we are making at our German sites auxiliary materials and the most economical use of energy. using the relative indicator “energy consumption per axle We also use systematic control to minimize wastewater, produced”. Because the non-producing Aschaffenburg locaexhaust air, exhaust heat and waste materials in our protions were included within the scope of the energy manageduction processes. ment system during the reporting period, our energy consumption per axle produced increased, and we failed to In the reporting period, we developed an integrated qualimeet or 5.25% savings target. Since the implementation of ty, environmental and energy policy that we plan to implethe energy management system at our German sites in ment at our German sites in 2019. By interlinking these sub 2012, we have reduced our relative energy consumption by areas, the various management system requirements and 33%. their potential interaction can be managed appropriately so that targeted approaches can be derived for optimizaIn order to optimize our material and energy flows it is estions. sential that these flows are fully transparent. This is the reason we have been collecting the electricity and gas conIn order to comply with the various environmental regulasumption data from our German locations using a special tions, we define the targets and measures to reduce envimeasurement concept since 2015. We are currently expandronmental pollution decentrally at the respective locaing our meter infrastructure to enable us to collect an even tions. Our regional Environmental Management Officers more comprehensive base of data on our energy use at the are assigned to the HSEQ department. Environmental manhighest resolution possible. agement requirements are written site-specifically in the process management handbook. To reduce our energy usage, we are not only increasing the efficiency of our processes but have our main focus on the A total of 48% of our worldwide production sites are curprocess peripherals and the building envelope. We also rently ISO 14001 certified. In the 2018 financial year, one make it a point to involve our employees in communicating of our primary activities was the nationwide certification the topic throughout the company and identifying any fur28 3. Corporate Environmental Protection ther potential for improvement. The continuous monitoring In 2018, we replaced refrigeration appliances containing and feedback from our production staff, for example, helps CFC s at all our German sites with new energy-efficient applius to detect and eliminate compressed air leaks more quickances that use alternative refrigerants. We will also be gradly. Our employees receive their training from our Learnually replacing older equipment used in production with ing-Management-System. Our Energy Management Officer new, more energy-efficient machines. creates the individual mandatory training modules. We also teach trainee awareness about how to use energy responsiWe are building a new administration building at the Besbly. As so-called “energy scouts”, we have our trainees anasenbach site in compliance with the requirements of the lyze the company's energy usage as part of a training modGerman Energy Saving Ordinance (EnEV ). This building will ule to see if they can discover any potential for reduction. be heated by an energy-efficient air-heat pump that will be supported by a gas condensing boiler at low outside temACTIONS TAKEN IN THE REPORTING YEAR peratures. We will also install a ventilation system that uses We carried out a material flow analysis at our Bessenbach creek water for cooling. Our lighting concept features a daylocation and gained valuable insights, by means of Sankey light-dependent lighting control. The construction of the diagrams, into the main drivers behind our use of energy new building is scheduled for completion in the summer of (see page 9). 2019. Energy usage [MWh] 2018* 2017** 2016** Primary energy usage 58,818 54,788 67,631 of which natural gas 57,779 53,994 66,742 of which liquid fuel 1,039 794 889 Secondary energy usage 47,949 47,348 48,581 of which electricity 46,710 45,755 46,613 of which bought-in district heating 1,239 1,593 1,968 Total energy usage 106,767 102,136 116,212 * Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada, Turkey and China (Xiamen) ** Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada The Group's most important source of energy is natural gas ACTIONS TAKEN IN THE REPORTING YEAR with a share of 54%. The electricity consumption on a pro Our aim is to reduce the emissions caused by the company's rata basis is 44%. At our German sites, 82% of the electricity own fleet by increasing our use of alternative drive systems consumed stems from renewable energies. and, at the same time, by tightening our own standards. In view of this, we introduced a new company car policy in the 3.3. S YSTEMATIC DETECTION OF EMISSIONS IN reporting year that sets emission limits for each hierarchy THE AIR level. We also encouraged our drivers to drive in a more energy and fuel-efficient manner. In addition, we expanded GRI 305/103, 305-1, 305-2, 305-5 our fleet of electric vehicles for internal plant traffic. Energy use is SAF HOLLAND 's largest source of greenhouse To improve the air quality at the Bessenbach production fagas emissions. Consequently, we see this as our greatest levcilities, we replaced further diesel forklifts with electrically erage for our CO 2 reduction. The emissions from our sites powered forklifts. We also introduced a call system for our that go directly into the air result from the burning of fossil truck fleet in order to make delivery logistics and incoming fuels, especially natural gas (Scope 1). Indirect emissions plant deliveries more efficient (“Yard Management”). These (Scope 2) represent all of the emissions associated with measures will help us save diesel fuel and reduce greenbought-in energy, such as electricity and district heating. house gas emissions. The use of combined transport in AlOther indirect emissions (Scope 3) arise as a result of our pine transit also makes our logistics more environmentally business activities in the upstream and downstream profriendly (see page 7). cesses, for example, through the use of our products. We do not yet gather data on Scope 3 emissions. However, we do In an effort to contribute to the global reduction of greenplan to include the key items in our reporting in the future. house gases beyond optimizing our own business activities, 3. Corporate Environmental Protection 29 we were able to offset emissions of 1,040 t CO 2 in 2018.2 We public sewer system to a wastewater treatment plant (see accomplished this through our participation in the “Plant for page 10). the Planet”‚ initiative, where we donated the funds needed to plant 25,000 trees on the Mexican peninsula of Yucatán Water usage (in addition to the 79,000 trees we have already planted [m³] there). Through our longstanding support of this project, we 2018* 2017** 2016** have already been able to offset a total of 2,620 t CO 2 (see Water withdrawal 131,686 109,065 84,873 page 8). * Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada, Turkey and China (Xiamen) ** Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada In 2018, we calculated our level of greenhouse gas emissions for the first time based on the internationally recogIn 2018, SAF HOLLAND withdrew 131,686 m3 water from nized rules of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. In the future, the public water systems. we plan to present all of our emissions data based on this calculation to ensure proper comparability and make our When we dispose wastewater, we follow legal regulations progress transparent. In addition to recording our locaapplicable in the respective country. Irrespective of this, we tion-based emissions, we also plan to compute and present generally discharge industrial wastewater to a wastewater market-based emissions. treatment plant. 3.5. C  ONSISTENT WASTE MANAGEMENT AND Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions HIGH RECYCLING QUOTAS [t CO 2 equivalents] * 2018 GRI 306/103, 306-2 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) 11,980 of which natural gas 11,701 Most of our waste is generated during the production proof which liquid fuel 279 cess with the most important waste fraction being metal in Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) 22,327 the form of shavings and blends. Packaging waste is generof which electricity consumption 22,046 ated in the form of wood and plastic waste. of which district heating 281 Total direct and indirect emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 34,307 We particularly intend to reduce the landfill and hazardous * Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada, Turkey and China (Xiamen) waste created by the production processes. When the production of waste cannot be avoided, qualified waste disposal companies dispose of it. The majority of the waste we 3.4. RESPONSIBLE WATER USAGE produce can be recycled. We ensure that our products' various components have a high degree of recyclability. BeGRI 303/103, 303-1, 303-2, 303-3 cause our products are modular and easy to disassemble, individual fractions can be easily separated and sorted for The production activities at SAF HOLLAND are generally not recycling. very water intensive. The use of water in the production of our products is largely determined by the coating processNext to reducing the amount of scrap in production, there es. Parts of these processes take place internally and, at should also be a reduction in packaging waste related to some locations, they are outsourced. Water is also used for transport and logistics. We are increasingly focusing on recooling and washing processes. fillable systems and improved disposable packaging. Other ways we significantly reduce the amount of waste include The water is taken from the public drinking water system. use of wire baskets and reusable plastic boxes for the transAs a rule, SAF HOLLAND uses the water resources sparingly. portation of our products and components, as well as the Processes for saving water through recycling are used reuse of transport securing equipment. In 2019, we also where the infrastructure and economics allow. For new plan to focus on improving our empty container logistics. buildings, such as at the Yangzhou site in China, water conservation processes are already taken into account in the At our trainee repair shop in Bessenbach, we introduced the planning phase. As a result, up to 70% of the water required concept of “virtual welding”. With this approach, trainees for the production process can be saved through recycling. can learn to weld while saving gas and electricity and withThe remaining 30% is sent with sanitary wastewater via the out the usual steel and welding wire waste. 2  alculation is based on the assumption that a tree will absorb an average of 10 kg of CO 2 C per year over a 20-year life span. Source: doi:10.1038/nature16512 30 3. Corporate Environmental Protection Waste by fraction Hazardous and non-hazardous waste [t] [t] 2018* 2017** 2016** 2018* 2017** 2016** Metal waste 7,465 6,884 6,656 Non-hazardous waste 10,104 9,114 8,823 Wood waste 736 548 684 Hazardous waste 71 46 49 Other 1,641 1,440 1,239 Total waste 10,175 9,160 8,872 Oils and emulsions 332 288 356 * Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada, Turkey and China (Xiamen) ** Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada Total waste 10,175 9,160 8,872 * Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada, Turkey and China (Xiamen) ** Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada Waste according to recovery or disposal method [t] 2018* 2017** 2016** Recycling 9,269 8,259 8,087 Thermal recovery (combustion) 279 42 88 Landfill 627 858 815 Total waste 10,175 9,160 8,872 * Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada, Turkey and China (Xiamen) ** Scope of consolidation: Germany, United States, Canada Around 91% of the waste generated in the 2018 financial year could be recycled. The amount of landfilled waste was also successfully reduced through a partial conversion to thermal recovery. We replace hazardous substances with less dangerous substances wherever possible and technically feasible. Our occupational safety and environmental management teams work closely together on a continuous basis to achieve this. We ensure that hazardous substances can be properly and professionally disposed of at all times and keep our employees up to date on this important issue through a targeted information policy. In addition, we replaced epoxy resin coatings at our German sites with the environmentally friendlier cathodic e-coating. The hazardous waste that results from this process is no longer sent to a landfill site but is instead sent for thermal recycling. During the reporting period, there were no reportable environmental incidents or contamination within the scope of SAF HOLLAND 's business activities. 4. Employees 31 4. EMPLOYEES 4.1. I NVOLVING OUR EMPLOYEES FOR cessfully introduced at our US locations the year before. LONG-TERM SUCCESS This program contains a Learning-Management-System that in the future will enable us to direct our talent manGRI 102-7, 102-8, 102-10, 102-16, 102-41, 401/103, 405-1 agement in a more targeted manner. To accomplish this, we created a new “E-Learning Manager” role in 2018. Cultural diversity and flat hierarchies define the corporate culture at SAF HOLL AND. Our corporate values reflect our To prepare our employees for the changes and future decommitment to social responsibility and encompass innovelopments that accompany digitization, we provide them vation and cost awareness, as well as reliability, respect, with a continuous flow of related information and specialteamwork, communication and honesty. These values are ized training. Our CEO and CFO have also established an the very basis of our activities. interdisciplinary working group that meets regularly to discuss SAF HOLL AND 's digital transformation. As a company operating in the commercial vehicle industry, SAF HOLL AND finds itself faced with the same chalWe employed 3,908 people at the end of 2018. In comparison lenges currently confronting the industry – a shortage of to the previous year, our workforce had grown by approxiskilled workers, demographic change and digitization. mately 17%, primarily as a result of the addition of employees Since its emergence in 2006 from the merger of a German from acquisitions in the regions (see Chapter 1.1). We also and a US company, SAF HOLL AND has developed into a employed an average of 530 temporary workers per month global operation. With locations worldwide, the topics of worldwide in the reporting year. internationalization and diversity are naturally important to us. It is also the reason why our human resource activiDEFINED BY INTERNATIONALITY AND CULTURAL ties focus on building a strong workforce and recruiting DIVERSITY and retaining well-trained executives and specialists (see GRI 405/103, 405-1 Chapter 4.2). To leverage the potential of our diverse workforce, Our employer branding strategy, developed in 2018, takes SAF HOLLAND encourages collaboration and the sharing of into account the unique characteristics of our three, and information across all of the regions of our business. We as of 2019 four global reporting regions. As a well-coordilaunched an international trainee program in 2017, giving nated strategy, it highlights the specific benefits graduates an opportunity to gain valuable experience at our SAF HOLL AND brings to the regions as an employer and various international locations as part of an 18-month training establishes channels of communication necessary to reach program. We currently have four trainees from China and two regional target groups. Examples of this are our participafrom Germany participating in this program. tion in career fairs and presentations at schools in an effort to appeal to young professionals and position We give our salaried employees an opportunity to carry out SAF HOLL AND as a desirable employer in the industry. A project-related assignments at SAF HOLLAND 's international recently drafted intercultural image campaign is anticipatlocations. We also offer preparatory language courses in Enged to give a further boost to our employer branding stratlish, the Group's designated corporate language, to make inegy in 2019. tercultural communication easier. THE DIGITIZATION OF HUMAN RESOURCES As a way to encourage executives from all subsidiaries to Digitization is not only having a growing influence on our personally communicate and exchange information with one product portfolio but also affects the company's internal another, we periodically host a multi-day “International processes. Although technological change presents new Meeting”. In addition to this, we have developed a multi-culopportunities and helps simplify and optimize existing tural workforce training program. As part of this program, processes, it also places new demands on our employees. interdisciplinary project teams meet for a specific time To help advance the digital transformation of period at various locations to exchange their best practice SAF HOLL AND 's human resources department, our Gersolutions for a variety of issues. A particularly close exchange man locations installed a human capital management softtakes place between our Düzce location in Turkey and our ware program in 2018: the same software program suc32 4. Employees Key employee indicators Headcount numbers / percent as of December 31, 2018 2018 2017 2016 Employees * 3,908 3,340 3,242 of which female employees 558 482 454 of which male employees 3,350 2,858 2,788 Region Americas 1,751 1,545 1,506 EMEA /I 1,511 1,312 1,235 APAC /China 646 483 501 Type of employment Full-time 3,850 3,293 3,163 Part-time ** 58 47 79 Age group in % Below 30 years of age 19.7 18.4 15.2 30 to 50 years of age 48.8 53.9 53.7 Above 50 years of age 31.5 27.8 31.1 Average age in years 40.0 38.2 40.3 Proportion of women 14.3 14.4 14.0 Average length of employment at company in years 6.8 n.a. n.a. Employees covered by a collective wage agreement in % 54.7 n.a. n.a. Number of employees with a severe disability *** 71 80 63 * Excluding temporary workers ** Fewer number of hours than usual for full-time employees in particular country (e.g., 35 hours in Germany, 40 hours in the US ) *** German locations only n.a. Not available German locations. German employees visit the Düzce locawere not able to reach our target ratio of 9% for women in tion regularly to train new, local employees. upper and middle management in the reporting year. As is typical for our industry, we have a low proportion of The composition of the Board of Directors remained unwomen (14.3%) in the SAF HOLLAND workforce. We strive changed in 2018. With two female members on the six-memcontinuously to increase this level and have taken several ber Board, we exceeded Germany's required female quota of steps to attract more women to our company and make tech30% in the reporting period. For more information on diversinical careers more appealing. ty at SAF HOLLAND, please refer to our Group Management Report on page 38. We participate in events such as career fairs, Girls'Day, after-school youth and technical programs, as well as in “Jugend At SAF HOLLAND, we consider maintaining equal opportuniforscht”, an initiative supporting talented achievers in the Scities and diversity as one of our core tasks. In our view, this ence, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subinvolves valuing our employees as individuals, irrespective of jects. We do this with the intention of making careers in the characteristics such as age, gender, nationality, ethnic origin, fields of mathematics, computer science, natural sciences and educational background or ability. We see remunerating our technology (MINT professions) more attractive to women in employees based on their performance and professional the hope that this will inspire a higher number of women to qualifications – regardless of their gender – as a matter of join the company in the future. Generally, we strive to develcourse. At our German locations, remuneration is based on a op managers within our own ranks, regardless of their gender. collective wage agreement, while in the United States remuWhen there are candidates with the same qualifications, we neration is based on local union agreements. encourage the recruitment of women. A FOCUS ON EMPLOYEES In the first and second executive levels below management, GRI 407/103, 401-2, 407-1 our aim is to reach a female quota of 12.5% at our German locations by mid-2022. Due to the low availability of qualified The level of employee satisfaction in the workplace is imfemale applicants in the commercial vehicle sector and the portant to us. To help cultivate a high level of satisfaction, lower proportion of women studying for technical careers, we we offer permanent benefits to all employees. Pension plans, for example, are offered at all of our locations. In Ger4. Employees 33 many, we offer pension plans through the employee benetraining programs, dual study courses and trainee programs fits institution “Versorgungswerk MetallRente” and also ofa fundamental component of our human resources work. fer employment disability insurance. We provide other These efforts result in a highly trained workforce and sysspecial benefits through our HR department, such as agreetematically ensure our independence from the external laments with retailers and a corporate benefits program for bor market. exclusive discounts in online shops. We also feature internal and external offers to promote employee health (see ChapAt our German locations, motivated junior employees are ter 4.4). given the opportunity to qualify for future jobs through their choice of threeor three-and-a-half-year vocational training In 2015, we introduced an idea management campaign programs offered in the commercial, industrial and technical called “My Idea”. This campaign is currently underway at our areas. The focus within these programs is on careers in techlocations in Germany, Turkey and China. Any employee can nical fields such as mechanical engineering, which is schedmake suggestions such as how to improve processes or produled to include electrical engineering in the future. ucts or for more sustainability. Depending on their potential effectiveness, a responsible manager or an idea committee We are also setting up a new training center at our Yangzhou will evaluate the proposal, and if this evaluation turns out to site in China with the help of the head of our German trainbe positive, the idea is implemented. For ideas with measuring program. This center will enable us to train local employable monetary benefits, employees are eligible to receive a ees on a needs-driven basis. In the Americas region, the Gerfinancial reward when an idea is successfully implemented. man model of dual education is not offered. Since 2017, this campaign has focused on a variety of themes, which change annually. In 2018, the focus was on The company’s Lean Management Officer teaches all trainaccident prevention. ees about the topic of lean production. So-called “apprentice kaizen teams” are formed who are responsible for imTrade unions and works councils represent the interests of plementing different projects aimed at achieving continuous our employees at all of our locations in Germany and in the improvements in the individual departments. The key topic United States. However, even at the other locations, in 2018 was the development of occupational safety prevenSAF HOLLAND does not stand in the way of freedom of assotion measures and corresponded closely to the focus topic ciation or collective bargaining. The latter takes place in all for this year's idea management campaign. locations where this is provided for by external regulations. By investing in the needs-based education and training of 4.2. T RAINING AND FURTHER EDUCATION our employees, we are well-prepared for the effects of deENSURE A BASE OF QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES mographic change. We are also moving ahead with our efforts to transform our existing workspaces to age-appropriGRI 404/103 ate workspaces and the creation of new jobs with better ergonomics for older employees. The current shortage of skilled workers in many labor markets also poses a challenge for SAF HOLLAND as it tries to In 2018, we employed a total of 55 trainees in Germany. In recruit competent employees and train them on a needs-drivthe industrial area, 20% more trainees were accepted than in en, forward-looking basis, and retain them as Group employthe previous year as we strive to meet our long-term deees for an extended period of time. In working towards our mand for skilled workers in that area. In the commercial goal of promoting as many specialists and managers from area, the number of trainees remained the same. For the last within the company as possible, we have made the qualificaseveral years, all of our apprentices were hired at tion and further development of young employees through SAF HOLLAND under a permanent employment contract. Initial and continuing education 2018 2017 2016 Trainee ratio (as of December 31) * 4.2 % 4.7 % 4.5 % Interns, student workers, dissertation students (as of December 31)* 25 10 8 * Scope of consolidation: Germany 34 4. Employees HIGH-LEVEL TRAINING PROGRAMS and career goals. This program includes providing an underTraining at SAF HOLLAND involves learning how to use standing of management tasks through practice-relevant state-of-the-art technologies, becoming familiar with differprojects taking an individual's background and experience ent project management tools, independently carrying out into account. In 2017/18, 13 employees participated in the smaller projects and working within a team. SAF HOLLAND personnel development concept at the German sites. trainees are regularly recognized for their accomplishments by external associations such as the German Chamber of InWe finance the further training of our employees through a dustry and Commerce (Industrieund Handelskammer IHK ). dedicated budget. In 2018, we invested a total of EUR We see this as evidence of the overall high quality of our 206,272 in employee development at our German locations training. (previous year: EUR 194,437). Currently, the Human Resources department manages the budget in Germany centrally. At Our training programs themselves are also receiving awards. our international locations, budgets are administrated deFor example, SAF HOLLAND was chosen among the best in centrally by the managers of the individual departments. the automotive supplier industry in a survey carried out by Focus Money magazine's DEUTSCHLAND TEST division enti4.3. A  FOCUS ON EMPLOYEE OCCUPATIONAL tled “Germany's Best Career Training Companies”. The surHEALTH AND SAFETY vey evaluated sector-specific aspects such as the success of the training, the remuneration during training, the training 403/103, 403-1, 403-3, 403-4, 403-8 quota as well as additional trainee offers in order to assess the quality of training. SAF HOLLAND was also awarded 5 We strive to maintain high safety standards in order to reout of 5 possible stars in the survey “Germany's Best Job duce the likelihood of accidents in the workplace to the Trainers 2018”, sponsored by Capital business magazine. greatest extent possible. Our goal, which is referred to as “Vision Zero”, stands for the complete avoidance of occupaPROFESSIONAL TALENT MANAGEMENT FOR tional accidents. To achieve this, we use decentralized occuPERSONALIZED TRAINING pational health and safety management systems based on GRI 404/103, 404-2 the applicable local laws that apply to employees and temporary workers alike. SAF HOLLAND places particular importance on the aspect of “lifelong learning”. Our training programs give our employOur Chinese site in Xiamen and our Indian site in Pune are ees the opportunity to develop themselves not only profesboth certified in accordance with the Occupational Health sionally but also personally. In the year under review, we inand Safety Management System OHSAS 18001. troduced the human capital management software program “SAP Success Factors” at all our German and American locaThe management system at our German sites is coordinated tions. This program consists of various individual modules by the HSEQ department. Occupational Health and Safety that are implemented step-by-step. The introduction of the Officers work at all of our German locations. The OccupaLearning-Management-System and the integration of contional Health and Safety Committee (OHSC ), which consists tent from our further education programs into this new sysof both employer and employee representatives routinely tem were two of the focal points in this area in 2018. addresses current safety issues. This Committee decides on which occupational health and safety measures to take and The introduction of this system also laid the essential founimplements them in a timely manner. dation for the even more effective organization of our further education in the future. The accompanying talent manROUTINE REVIEWS FOR ACCIDENT PREVENTION agement system is better at taking into account the skills of GRI 403-2, 403-4, 403-5, 403-9 executives and future executives so that we can support them more intensively in the future and increasingly fill chalOur workplaces and work processes are evaluated continulenging positions from within our own company. ously and at regular intervals during inspections and internal audits for occupational health and safety. Any irregularities We have a special one-year employee development program detected are documented along with the recommended that offers our managers and professionals an opportunity measures and rectified within a suitable time frame. to receive individual support based on their own strengths 4. Employees 35 All SAF HOLLAND employees are required to identify securiKey occupational safety indicators ty risks, to remedy them directly if possible, or to inform their supervisor. Any occupational accidents that occur are 2018* documented and analyzed, and targeted measures are imLost Time Injury LTI (Number of accidents plemented to remedy the problems that led to the accident resulting in at least 24h of absence) 55 in order to avoid the recurrence of accidents from the same Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR (Number of cause. accidents resulting in at least 24h of absence per 1 million hours worked) 10.1 Currently, most accidents involve finger or hand injuries. The Fatalities FAT (Occupational deaths) 0 majority of these are minor accidents with little downtime. * New scope of consolidation, see page 40 “About this Report”. We use our Learning-Management-System to ensure that employees remain aware of the issues surrounding the protection of occupational health and safety. SAF HOLLAND The effectiveness of our occupational health and safety also provides information through posters, e-mails and lecmanagement is reviewed by means of selected accident statures on the topic of occupational safety, as well as about tistics. In 2018, 55 workplace accidents occurred at our sites the possible risks and accident hazards in their day-to-day with at least 24h of absence (for the scope of consolidation jobs. By providing specific instructions at the workplace, the see “About this report”). In 2018, no fatal accidents occurred respective managers see to it that the topic of occupational throughout the Group. health and safety is present in everyday life. Particularly important target groups in maintaining employee awareness are the shift supervisors, master craftsmen and foremen, who act as multipliers by conveying the knowledge and setting an example. Safety experts also undergo one-on-one training on an annual basis. At our German sites in the reporting year, we carried out a risk assessment to measure mental stress at the workplace, in addition to the risk assessments for accident prevention. A moderated process was used to identify relevant points in small groups together with occupational physicians. From this, measures were derived, which we will implement in 2019. In 2018, we began planning a campaign to help reduce accidents at work, particularly in production. The goal of the campaign is to increase employee awareness and prevent accidents resulting from carelessness, haste or negligence. A special focus is placed on eliminating accidents due to hectic actions. The Lost Time Injury (LTI ) key indicator monitors the success of this campaign. A new element is that the occurrence of LTI s is no longer considered negative but instead seen positively as simply a period in which no LTI s occurred. This new element is intended to spark motivation so that employees personally and actively contribute to accident reduction. We expect to launch this campaign in 2019. 36 4. Employees ENSURING PRODUCTIVE AND HEALTHY EMPLOYEES GRI 403-6 Maintaining the health of our employees in the long term is one of SAF HOLLAND 's chief objectives. Preserving the health of every employee is not only important to us but also serves the company by bringing down absenteeism, increasing productivity and keeping employees working at the company as long as possible. At our German locations, we promote the health of our employees in their day-to-day work by offering various additional benefits. We subsidize computer eyeglasses and personalized hearing protection. As part of special medical offers, our employees can use vaccinations or take advantage of specific preventive medical check-ups. The company also has a doctor available. We actively promote employee health by providing fresh apples at the workplace free of charge. In 2018, for example, we distributed around 5,500 kg of apples via our vitamin stations. Our agreements with fitness studios help employees keep fit in their leisure time at discounted prices. In the 2018 financial year, we continued to focus on employee health, by promoting the physical activity and mental strength of our employees. An example of this was SAF HOLLAND 'S voluntary payment of the participation fee for the HVB CityLauf Aschaffenburg and its help in organizing running meetups at the locations. In an effort to detect mental stress in the workplace at an earlier stage and to initiate prevention processes, we conducted a training course for all executives at the German locations in the 2018 financial year in cooperation with B·A·D, a German company for health and safety. Through seminars on the topics of stress and mental stress, we helped our employees face these issues and cultivate an open approach. 5. Social Commitment 37 5. SOCIAL COMMITMENT 5.1 “ IT'S THE WE THAT COUNTS” WHEN IT SAF HOLLAND by organizing corporate events and taking COMES TO WHAT WE DO AND WHAT WE part in initiatives such as “Pennies for a good cause”. SUPPORT AT SAF-HOLLAND 5.2 R EGIONAL PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS IN THE 2018 Our social commitment with its defined values, commitFINANCIAL YEAR ments and goals, is a central component of our corporate philosophy. We promote social and environmental projects In the year 2018, we supported a total of 16 projects in the at our locations and strive to ensure that we help those in EMEA and Americas regions. The individual projects are listour society who need it. This is why we support projects ed on page 38. A selection of these projects is listed here that are not necessarily directly related to our business acbelow: tivities. Often we look for projects that meet local needs. Our special focus is the promotion of children and adolesSTEM CELLS AGAINST BLOOD CANCER cents because it is important to us to make a positive contriIn November 2018, SAF HOLLAND organized a registration bution today to help shape the society of tomorrow. campaign for the DKMS organization in order to help leukemia patients find suitable stem cell donors. In the spirit of DIVERSE PROJECTS, REGIONALLY DIRECTED the slogan “Mouth open. Say Ahhhh. Be a donor”, all healthy Local sites are responsible for selecting their own projects, employees between the ages of 17 and 55 were invited to as well as determining the scope and financing of the fundparticipate. Registration took place during normal business ing necessary. Ideas come primarily from our employees, hours directly at the Bessenbach location with SAF HOLLAND each of whom has an opportunity to seek support for their assuming the registration costs of EUR 35 per person. Altosuggested projects. At our German locations, this process gether, a total of 131 employees registered to take part in takes place via our idea management platform called “My this fight against blood cancer. Idea”. This is where the unique variety of projects supported by SAF HOLLAND originates. PRACTICAL TRAINING FOR THE FUTURE In the US , SAF HOLLAND promotes the manual skills of high The local CSR officers or the local site managers decide school students aged 16 to 19 years. In order to give young whether and to what extent project funding takes place. people additional career and job opportunities, certified The CSR Council is the central body that makes the decisions welders from our company visit the Wylie, Warrenton and on project funding. The Group Management Board is also Dumas sites and pass on their knowledge in welding techinvolved in this decision-making process. nology. SAF HOLLAND provides the necessary equipment and metal to practice, and the training program lasts for one We let others know about our social activities through our to two years. In 2018, a total of 50 students participated at dedicated website for our high-profile “Think Ahead” susthe Wylie location, 70 at our location in Warrenton and 40 in tainability program. This campaign is based on three key Dumas. pillars – “People”, “Energy” and “Environment”. In the 2018 financial year, Think Ahead was awarded the jury's honorary EXPERIENTIAL EDUCATION FOR THE ASCHAFFENBURG prize for its holistic environmental protection concept and CHILDREN AND YOUTH HOME was also recognized in the “Green Ranking” of the German In 2018, SAF HOLLAND GmbH and employees donated a tomagazine VerkehrsRundschau for its commitment to emtal of EUR 6,500 to support the work of the curative educaployee development. tional and therapeutic home for children and youth in Aschaffenburg and facilitate an experiential educational SAF HOLLAND supports selected projects with cash and inprogram. The children and youth home provides for and kind donations, as well as through educational campaigns takes care of children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 who and also offers internships at several different locations. In have problematic ties with their families or developmental Bessenbach, we integrate social awareness into our trainee deficits, or who are significantly disadvantaged due to conprogram by taking part in workshops for people with disastitutional and/or social deficits in their personality develbilities. We support the commitment of our employees at opment versus others their same age. 38 5. Social Commitment CLEAN WATERS AT THE HOLLAND, MICHIGAN SITE In a multi-phased approach, more than 130 sub-projects Project Clarity is a community effort to clean Lake Macatahave been implemented to remove more than 38,000 wa and restore the biological balance of the Macatawa Wapounds of phosphorus from Lake Macatawa every year. In tershed. In 1999, a decision was made to reduce the phos2018, the spotlight was on agricultural projects, such as phorus content of Lake Macatawa by 70%. In 2013, the planting intermediate crops and landscaping watercourses. Clarity campaign was established for this purpose. Each year, the Agriculture Lunch and Macatawa Water FesSAF HOLLAND has been supporting this project, located tival are held to help raise awareness among farmers and near our Michigan plant, with annual donations of US $ individuals about the responsible use of water and wa100,000 since 2014. ter-rich landscapes. Regional project highlights in the 2018 financial year No. Project Description 1 Pennies for a good cause The employees of SAF -HOLLAND GmbH rounded down their salaries to the nearest euro for the children's clinic in Aschaffenburg and achieved a total donation of EUR 1,975.77. 2 “BE GREAT : Graduate” The graduation program “BE GREAT : Graduate” of the Boys & Girls Club in Muskegon Lakeshore, Michigan, encourages kids to stay in school. SAF -HOLLAND Inc. provides financial support, and employees volunteer as mentors. 3 “Care to Learn Program” SAF -HOLLAND Inc. provided US $ 5,000 in cash and in-kind donations to educate students at the campus in Warrenton, Missouri. 4 “Road to Success” college scholarships SAF -HOLLAND Inc. granted four scholarships in the amount of US $ 2,500 each to employee family members. 5 Experiential education for a children's and Our employees collected EUR 756.72 in donations for the Aschaffenburg children's and youth home youth home. SAF -HOLLAND GmbH increased this amount to EUR 6,500. 6 Plastic lids against polio SAF -HOLLAND GmbH supported the association “Deckel drauf e.V.” (“Put a lid on it”) with a donation campaign for vaccinations against polio. 7 An island escape – sanctuaries for children SAF -HOLLAND GmbH supported this project with a financial contribution and the establishment of a complex in Bessenbach where children can get help. 8 Educational toys for the local kindergarten Our employees collected EUR 634.75 for the purchase of new educational toys for the St. Georg kindergarten in Bessenbach. SAF -HOLLAND 's management increased the amount to a total of EUR 1,500. 9 “Plant for the Planet” SAF -HOLLAND GmbH donated EUR 49,000 to enable two climate academies to sponsor a total of 67 students. 25,000 trees were planted. Further information can be found on page 8 and at https://we-think-ahead.de/en/environment/ 10 “Project Clarity” SAF -HOLLAND Inc. has been donating US $ 100,000 annually to the community initiative for cleaning and restoring the waters of the Macatawa Lake and the Macatawa Watershed since 2014. 11 School lunches SAF -HOLLAND Inc. has been helping to finance school lunches at four schools near its US locations. 12 Welding program SAF -HOLLAND Inc. donated welding equipment and metal for welding practice. Certified SAF -HOLLAND welders taught a total of 160 high school students, aged 16 to 19, at the Wylie, Dumas and Warrenton locations. 13 Raising awareness for organ and tissue doSAF -HOLLAND GmbH raised employee awareness for organ and tissue donations by distribnations uting information material and organ donor passes. 14 Stem cells against blood cancer SAF -HOLLAND GmbH organized an employee registration campaign for stem cell donors. 131 employees took part, and SAF -HOLLAND GmbH assumed the related costs of EUR 4,585. 15 Support for disabled workshops Eight trainees volunteered at “Lebenshilfe Schmerlenbach” and accompanied adults with predominantly mental disabilities for two weeks at work. 16 Christmas cards from UNICEF By choosing UNICEF Christmas cards, SAF -HOLLAND GmbH donated to the United Nations Children's Fund. 5. Social Commitment 39 Further information on the projects supported by SAF HOLLAND can be found on our website https://wethink-ahead.de/en/people/. These diverse projects are largely a result of the high level of commitment of our employees. We would like to thank all of our employees for their tremendous personal dedication that has helped make the “Think Ahead” projects a success. 40 About this report ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI 102-12, GRI 102-50, GRI 102-52, GRI 102-54, GRI 102-56 When adding individual data, deviations may occur due to rounding. This Sustainability Report includes the separate non-financial statement (NFS) of the SAF HOLLAND Group in accordWe refrain from using multiple gender-specific references in ance with Sections 315b and 315c in conjunction with Secthe report to improve readability and not as a representations 289c through 289e of the German Commercial Code tion of value. All entries should, therefore, be considered (HGB). A list of the essential non-financial and diversity-regender-neutral. lated information, as defined by the CSR Directive Implementation Act (CSR RUG), can be found on page 45. This This report pertains to the 2018 financial year, which is idenreport also contains additional information on the sustainatical to the 2018 calendar year. The editorial deadline was bility activities of SAF HOLLAND. April 15, 2019. The annual Sustainability Report is published in German and English on the SAF HOLLAND website. Our The preparation of this report was guided by the standards next Sustainability Report for the 2019 financial year will be of the internationally recognized Global Reporting Initiative published in the spring of 2020. (GRI ) and in accordance with the “Core” option of the GRI standards. More information about the company can be found at https://safholland.com and in the Annual Report. A Communication on Progress (COP) report was integrated into the SAF HOLLAND Sustainability Report for the first time as a result of SAF HOLLAND 's membership in the United Nations Global Compact initiative as of early 2019. By including this report, we are demonstrating our commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This sustainability report focuses on the priority issues identified in the 2017 materiality analysis. An update of that materiality analysis, which will include the four business regions, is scheduled for 2019. SAF HOLLAND is continually expanding the extent of data collected in an effort to encompass the Group's entire scope of consolidation in its future reporting. An overview of all SAF HOLLAND Group subsidiaries can be found in the 2018 Annual Report on page 21. It was not yet possible to report all information across the entire Group for the 2018 reporting year. To the extent feasible, this report covers the main business locations in Germany, the United States and Canada as the key locations in the EMEA and Americas regions, and – for the first time in this reporting cycle – the Düzce, Turkey, and Xiamen, China, locations.3 The key figures for the workforce in the chapter entitled “Employees” are reported for the entire Group as far as possible. For key figures reported based on a different scope, the corresponding scope of consolidation is indicated in a footnote. 3  ur regions were regrouped into the EMEA , Americas, APAC and China regions as of O January 1, 2019. The data collected for this report were based on the regional grouping EMEA /I, Americas and APAC /China, which applied until December 31, 2018. GRI -Index 41 GRI-INDEX UN Global Compact GRI Standard and Indicators Comments Page Principles General Disclosures GRI 102 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of organization 12 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services SAF-HOLLAND is not aware of any of its products or 12 services not being permitted in certain markets. 102-3 Location of headquarters 12 102-4 Location of operations 12, 47 102-5 Ownership and legal form 12 102-6 Markets served 12 102-7 Scale of organization 12, 31, 47 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 31 102-9 Supply chain 18 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 12, 18, supply chain 31-32 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach SAF -HOLLAND follows the Precautionary Principle Principle 7 13, 15-16, 102-12 External initiatives 40 102-13 Membership of associations 14-15, 21 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 2 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 13, 16, 31 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 17 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 13, 15-16 Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14-15 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 31-32 Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14-15 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14-15 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 14-15 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial state40; ments Group Management Report p. 21; Consolidated Financial Statements p. 104 ff. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries The topics shown in the materiality matrix apply 14 to all locations. The relevance of the product themes (see Chapter 2) and the topic “Sustainable Supplier Management” unfolds along the value chain. 102-47 List of material topics 15 102-48 Restatements of information There were no material restatements of information 102-49 Changes in reporting 14 102-50 Reporting period 40 42 GRI -Index UN Global Compact GRI Standard and Indicators Comments Page Principles 102-51 Date of most recent report The 2017 Sustainability Report was published on April 30, 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle 40 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 46 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 40 Standards 102-55 GRI content index 41 102-56 External assurance 40 Material Topics GRI 204 Procurement Practices 2016 204/103 Management Approach* 18 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Disclosure of the proportion of spending on local suppliers is competitively significant and therefore not reported. GRI 205 Anti-Corruption 2016 205/103 Management Approach* 16-17 Principle 10 205-2 “Communication and training about anti-corruption 17 policies and procedures” 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 17 GRI 206 Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206/103 Management Approach* 16-17 206-1 “Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 16-17 anti-trust and monopoly practices” GRI 302 Energy 2016 302/103 Management Approach* 22-23, Principle 7, 8 27-28 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 27-28 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and 22-23 Principle 9 services GRI 303 Water and Effluents 2018 303/103 Management Approach* 27, 29 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 29 Principle 7 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 29 303-3 Water withdrawal 29 GRI 305 Emissions 2016 305/103 Management Approach* 22-23, Principle 7 27-28 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 28-29 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 28-29 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 22, 28-29 Principle 9 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016 306/103 Management Approach* 27, 29 Principle 7 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 29 306-3 Significant spills There were no known significant spills of dangerous substances in the reporting year. GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 2016 307/103 Management Approach* 16 Principle 7 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regu17 lations GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308/103 Management Approach* 19 Principle 8 GRI -Index 43 UN Global Compact GRI Standard and Indicators Comments Page Principles 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environThese data were not recorded in the reporting mental criteria year. In order to introduce a suitable supplier assessment, environmental criteria will be included in the 2019 supplier self-disclosure, starting with the EMEA region. As part of the harmonization of purchasing structures, the group-wide use of extended self-disclosure is planned in the medium term. GRI 401 Employment 2016 103 Management Approach* 31 401-2 “Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 33 not provided to temporary or part-time employees” GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403/103 Management Approach* 34-36 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system The system used by our German locations was de34-35 signed in accordance with the following laws: Occupational Safety and Health Act (ArbSchG), Occupational Safety Act (AS iG), Working Hours Act (ArbZG ), Maternity Protection Act (MuSchG), Social Code VII (SGB VII ). 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident 35 investigation 403-3 Occupational health services 34-35 403-4 Worker participation, consultation and communica34-35 tion on occupational health and safety 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 35 403-6 Promotion of worker health 36 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health Suppliers and business partners from the EMEA and safety impacts directly linked by business relaregion who visit SAF -HOLLAND 's corporate premtionships ises receive an individual safety briefing. 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and 34-35 safety management system 403-9 Work-related injuries 35 GRI 404 Training and Education 2016 103 Management Approach* 33-34 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transi34 tion assistance programs GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405/103 Management Approach* 32 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 31-32; Group Management Report p. 38 ff. GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016 406/103 Management Approach* 16-17 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions No incidents of discrimination within the Group 17 Principle 6 taken were known to SAF -HOLLAND in the reporting year. GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407/103 Management Approach* 19, 33 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to free19, 33 dom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk 44 GRI -Index UN Global Compact GRI Standard and Indicators Comments Page Principles GRI 408 Child Labor 2016 408/103 Management Approach* 16-17, 19 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 17, 19 Principle 5 incidents of child labor GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409/103 Management Approach* 16-17, 19 Principle 4 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 17, 19 incidents of forced or compulsory labor GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 2016 412/103 Management Approach* 16-17 Principle 1 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights 16-17 Principle 2 reviews or impact assessments GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414/103 Management Approach* 19 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social These data were not recorded in the reporting criteria year. In order to introduce a suitable supplier assessment, environmental criteria will be included in the 2019 supplier self-disclosure, starting with the EMEA region. As part of the harmonization of purchasing structures, the group-wide use of extended self-disclosure is planned in the medium term. GRI 415 Public Policy 2016 415/103 Management Approach* SAF -HOLLAND generally does not support political parties, politically motivated organizations or politicians. 415-1 Political contributions SAF -HOLLAND generally does not support political parties, politically motivated organizations or politicians. GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 2016 416/103 Management Approach* 21-22 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of All products developed by SAF -HOLLAND are testproduct and service categories ed for their effect on health and safety as part of our quality management. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health 21 and safety impacts of products and services GRI 418 Customer Privacy 2016 418/103 Management Approach* 16-18 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 17-18 customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419/103 Management Approach* 16 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 17 social and economic area Material Topic: Customer Satisfaction Customer satisfaction is a key issue for SAF -HOLLAND but is not covered by the GRI standards. On the recommendation of the Global Reporting Initiative, however, this topic is still reported analogously to the GRI standards. 103 Management Approach* 25-26 Determination of customer satisfaction 25-26 * Based on the standard GRI 103: Management Approach 2016, which includes disclosures 103-1, GRI 103-2 and GRI 103-3 (explanation of the material topic and its limitation, components and assessment of the management approach). 45 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS LABOR ENVIRONMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION 1. Businesses should support 3. Businesses should uphold the 7. Businesses should support a 10. Businesses should work and respect the protection of infreedom of association and the precautionary approach to enviagainst corruption in all its ternationally proclaimed human effective recognition of the right ronmental challenges. forms, including extortion and rights. to collective bargaining. bribery. 8. Undertake initiatives to pro2. Make sure that they are not 4. The elimination of all forms of mote greater environmental recomplicit in human rights abusforced and compulsory labor. sponsibility. es. 5. The effective abolition of child 9. Encourage the development labor. and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. This report also includes the Communication on Progress as part of pose, the Ten Principles of the Global Compact were assigned to the membership of the United Nations Global Compact. For this purGRI standards (see GRI -Index). Content of the non-financial consolidated statement Environmental Employee Anti-corruption Additional Social matters Human rights matters matters and -bribery matters CO2 No matters were Anti-corruption and Occupational safety Human rights Product safety emissions identified -bribery Pages 22-23, Pages 34-35 Pages 16-17 Pages 16-17 Pages 21-22 27-29 SAF -HOLLAND is not aware of any material risks that are very likely Group Risk Management. Information on this can be found in the to have serious negative effects on the aspects stated in the law Opportunities and Risk Report contained in the Annual Report and related to our business activities, business relationships or our (see page 63). products and services. Non-financial risks are addressed in the 46 Imprint and Contact Information IMPRINT CONTACT INFORMATION Publisher: SAF-HOLLAND Group SAF HOLLAND S.A. Hauptstraße 26 68 – 70, Boulevard de la Pétrusse 63856 Bessenbach 2320 Luxembourg Germany Luxembourg www.safholland.com Editorial deadline: April 15, 2019 Dr. Ferdinand Pohl Date of publication: April 30, 2019 CSR Officer ferdinand.pohl@safholland.de Editorial office: Dr. Ferdinand Pohl, SAF-HOLLAND Group Phone: + 49 6095 301-468 Michael Schickling, SAF-HOLLAND Group Alexander Pöschl, SAF-HOLLAND Group Michael Schickling Design and realization: 3st kommunikation GmbH Head of Investor Relations & Translated by: Klusmann Communications Corporate Communications Printed by: Braun & Sohn Druckerei GmbH & Co. KG michael.schickling@safholland.de Phone: + 49 6095 301-617 This report is also available in German. Alexander Pöschl Senior Manager Investor Relations & Legal Disclaimer Corporate Communications This report contains certain statements that are neither realexander.poeschl@safholland.de ported financial results nor other historical information. Phone: + 49 6095 301-117 This report contains forward-looking statements, which as such are based on certain assumptions and expectations Klaus Breitenbach made at the time of publication of the report. These forSenior Manager Investor Relations & ward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainCorporate Communications ties that could cause actual results to differ materially from klaus.breitenbach@safholland.de those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Many Phone: + 49 6095 301-565 of these risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Group’s ability to control or estimate precisely, such as future market and economic conditions, the behavior of other market participants, the achievement of anticipated synergies, and the actions of government regulators. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this publication. SAF HOLLAND S.A. does not undertake any obligation to publicly release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of publication of these materials. Production Sites and Certification Overview 47 Production sites and certification overview 6 1 7 2 3 15 5 8 10 11 12 13 9 4 14 EMEA AMERICAS APAC CHINA 1 GERMANY 6 CANADA 10 INDIA 15 CHINA BessenbachWoodstock, Baotou (until Pune Keilberg ON Dec. 31, 2018) Bessenbach11 THAILAND Qingdao Frauengrund 7 USA Bangkok Xiamen Singen Cincinnatti, OH Yangzhou Dumas North, 12 MALAYSIA (starting in the 2 ITALY AR second half of Kuala Lumpur 2019) Flero (Brescia) Dumas South, AR Nave 13 SINGAPORE Nashville, TN (as of January Singapore 3 TURKEY 2019) Düzce Warrenton 14 AUSTRALIA North, MO Melton ISO 9001 4 SOUTH AFRICA Warrenton South, MO ISO 14001 Johannesburg ISO 50001 Wylie, TX OHSA S 18001 IATF 16949 5 U NITED ARAB EMIRATES 8 MEXICO Dubai Querétaro City 9 BRAZIL Alvorada www.safholland.com
