Communication on Progress 2018 We unite Norway – and Norway with the world 2 AVINOR AS 54 387 000 PASSENGERS 690 472 DEPARTURES AND LANDINGS 3 099 PERMANENT EMPLOYEES 2.8 PER CENT TRAFFIC GROWTH 2017-2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 3 THE YEAR 2018 83.5 PER CENT REGULARITY Avinor’s target is a punctuality rate of 88 per cent. Poor punctuality was primarily down to major traffic-related challenges in Southern Europe, as well as internal challenges among some key operators within Avinor’s network. 4 AVINOR AS Our performance Operating income Operating income airport operations air navigation services Profit after tax 10 302 NOK MILLION 2 107 NOK MILLION 1 170 NOK MILLION NUMBER OF AIRLINE PASSENGERS NUMBER OF AIRCRAFT MOVEMENTS Figures in 1 000 Figures in 1 000 60 000 800 50 000 700 40 000 30 000 600 20 000 500 10 000 0 400 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 NOK MILLION 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Operating income airport operations 10 302.6 10 162.1 9 674.9 9 424.1 9 561.5 Operating income air navigation services 2 107.2 2 085.2 1 990.8 2 087.6 2 014.8 Total operating income group 11 724.0 11 526.0 10 788.1 11 989.4 10 671.0 EBITDA group 4 200.8 3 126.4 3 520.7 4 691.8 3 648.3 Profit after tax 1 169.7 499.3 1 028.6 2 449.0 1 398.7 Number of airline passengers (figures in 1 000) 54 387 52 885 50 803 50 025 50 107 Number of aircraft movements (figures in 1 000) 690 697 704 724 738 1) The Group uses EBITDA as an alternative performance measure (APM). This calculation is directly reconciled in the profit and loss account. EBITDA is used because it is an approximate calculation of free cash flow from operations. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 5 Content 06 About Avinor 08 Message from the CEO: We will contribute to sustainable growth throughout Norway 10 Corporate Governance 15 Report of the Board of Directors 2018 20 Corporate social responsibility 22 Goals and results for corporate social responsibility in 2018 26 Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway 36 Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation 50 Key figures climate and environment 2014-2018 52 Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer 56 Avinor shall ensure that it conducts its business responsibly 60 Overview of GRI indicators 66 Executive management 67 Board of Directors 70 Income statement 71 Statement of comprehensive income 72 Balance sheet 74 Changes in equity 76 Statement of cashflows 78 Notes to the accounts 126 Responsibility Statement from the Board of Directors and the CEO 127 Auditor’s report 6 AVINOR AS About Avinor Avinor is a wholly state-owned limited liability company under the authority of the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications and is responsible for Norway’s state-owned airports and air navigation services for civilian and military aviation. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 7 Air navigation services are provided by way of a separate company – Avinor Air Navigation Services – which is wholly owned by OUR AIRPORTS Avinor. Avinor Air Navigation Services provides services including Avinor’s airports vary by size and traffic volume. Oslo Airport en-route navigation services, approach control services, and control is by far the largest and accounts for more than half of tower services, as well as flight navigation services and services Norway’s air traffic and just over 70 per cent of the country’s relating to technical operations. Avinor Air Navigation Services is total international traffic. Stavanger, Bergen, and Trondheim also responsible for air navigation in Norwegian airspace and provides have a sizeable proportion of direct international traffic. Some services to both civil and military aviation. This report also includes other airports also have international traffic: Tromsø, Bodø, air navigation services. Commissioned by the Norwegian Ministry Harstad/Narvik, Molde, Ålesund, Haugesund, Kristiansand, and of Transport and Communications, a process commenced in 2017 Kristiansund, in addition to some international charter traffic at to explore the possible separation of air navigation services from individual airports. Avinor. This process will continue in 2019. It is unclear when a decision will be made regarding any such separation. Oslo Airport is the only Norwegian airport to have two parallel runways. Stavanger Airport, Sola has a secondary runway used Avinor co-operates with the Norwegian Armed Forces at eleven during certain wind conditions. Traffic forecasts indicate the airports, nine of which are Avinor airports (Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen, need for a third runway at Oslo Airport by 2030. Bergen Airport, Trondheim, Bodø, Andøya, Harstad/Narvik, Bardufoss, Lakselv). In Flesland will probably require a second runway by around 2040. addition, Ørland airbase has only military traffic, and Rygge airfield has only military activity and some general aviation. Co-operation Oslo Airport’s runways are 3,600 metres long. At the other large with the Norwegian Armed Forces is expected to be extended to airports, the runways are between 2,600 and 3,000 metres long, include several more airports in the future. which means they can be used by larger jet aircraft. 27 of Avinor’s 43 airports have short runways of between 800 and 1,200 metres. A total of 54,387,000 passengers travelled to, from or via Avinor’s These are used by smaller aircraft types such as the Bombardier Dash 8, air ambulances, and private aircraft. These small airports airports in 2018, which is an increase of 2.8 per cent compared to are of huge importance in ensuring the habitation and econothe previous year. It is international traffic that has seen greatest mies of remote areas. In addition, a heliport is operated at Værøy. growth in 2018, and 22.5 million passengers travelled directly to or from Norway and international destinations. Norway’s main airport, Oslo Airport, had more than 28.5 million passengers in 2018, which is an increase of 3.8 per cent compared Avinor is a self-funding business and its airport operations are run as to the previous year. Oslo Airport is the hub of Norwegian aviation a single unit, in which the financially profitable airports finance the and a transit airport for traffic between Norway and the rest of financially unprofitable airports. Avinor’s primary sources of income the world. The profit generated by Oslo Airport is crucial for the are fees from airlines and passengers and income from the rental of financing of the network of airports spread across the rest of space for retail operators, tax-free sales, food and drink, parking, and Norway. other passenger services. In addition, Avinor has income from the rental of space to airport hotels and parking facilities. The shares in There was a total of 690,472 movements (take-offs and landings) Avinor AS are wholly owned by the Norwegian state as represented at Avinor’s airports in 2018, which is a slight decline of just over 1 by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The Ministry per cent compared with the year before. The increase in passenger of Transport and Communications manages the ownership by the numbers is, therefore, relative to the number of passengers per Norwegian state and determines Avinor’s financial framework. In flight (load factor) and not to the number of movements. We saw a addition, the Ministry of Transport and Communications regulates similar trend in 2017 and 2016. the aviation fees. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is the highest authority for Norwegian aviation and also lays down In 2018, there were 81,262 overflights using Norwegian airspace, the Civil Aviation Authority’s regulations that have consequences for which is a decline of 1.3 per cent compared with 2017. Avinor’s operations. Avinor’s head office is in Oslo. VISION MISSION VALUES We create Avinor will develop and · Open valuable operate a safe, efficient, · Accountable relationships and sustainable aviation · Dynamic system throughout · Customer-focused Norway. 8 AVINOR AS Message from the CEO We will contribute to sustainable growth throughout Norway The Avinor group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the swing. In addition, Avinor – either on its own or in co-operation United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, with suppliers and customers – is developing both major and smallLabour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This Communication scale solutions that will help make Norwegian aviation competitive. on Progress describes our actions to continually improve the inte­ In this way, we are also actively contributing to UN SDG 9 on gration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business innovation and infrastructure. strategy, culture and daily operations. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of Our owner, the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and communication. Communications, will have more transportation for its money. Between 2015 and 2018, measures have been implemented that Safe and stable operations form the basis for Avinor’s business. have provided annual savings of NOK 600 million in relation to the Avinor operated well in 2018 and no aviation accidents or serious original plan for the business. Further efficiency and cost-cutting incidents were recorded in which Avinor was a contributing party. measures are high on Avinor’s agenda. Efforts are underway on sevThanks to effective co-operation with airlines and other partners, in eral initiatives to work smarter and more efficiently, and the Group’s 2018, Norwegian aviation has evolved within key areas such as the Board of Directors has adopted substantial cost reductions effective climate, capacity, and competitiveness. from 2019. Our target is to lower costs by 20 per cent per passenger by 2023. There is good dialogue between employee representatives, Last February, Avinor adopted a strategic plan for the period 2018 employees, the management and the board with regard to meeting to 2023. One of the primary objectives is to contribute to the susour owner’s expectations. tainable growth in Norway and its regions. Avinor is acutely aware of the need to balance the corporate social responsibility objective We’ve passed several key milestones over the past year. In April, of offering a better route network with its influential role within the a tender for air traffic services for Ålesund and Kristiansand was environmental and climate efforts of aviation. An important step announced. The winner of the tender was the Spanish company, in 2018 was the acquisition of an electric aircraft together with the Saerco, which will take over the operation of the towers on 1 Norwegian Association of Air Sports. Interest in the aircraft was March 2020.We have given our input regarding a possible change of huge, both before and after it arrived in Norway, which is a clear ownership of Avinor Air Navigation Services. The decision is now indication that this was an important decision and, moreover, the up to the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications. right decision. I’m proud that Avinor is at the forefront of sustainWe are following up our owner’s desire to start a tender process able aviation, in line with the UN’s sustainable development goal at Haugesund Airport. Just before the summer, we completed (SDG) number 13 – to stop climate change. Our ambition is for the bidding process and the plan is that a new operator will take all domestic aviation in Norway to be electrified by 2040. Through over during the second quarter of 2019. Our task now is to do the its government declarations, the Norwegian government has also best we can for our employees and deliver good services until the tasked us with contributing to this. At the same time, it is importakeover. I’m proud of the professionalism of our employees at tant to contribute to facilitating regional development that ensures Haugesund Airport in facing this challenge. the competitiveness of Norway’s local communities and the nation as such. Avinor is supporting the airlines in these efforts. Norway’s main airport, Avinor Oslo Airport, had more than 28.5 million passengers in 2018, which is an increase of 3.8 per cent compared Continuous improvement and innovation are central elements in to the previous year. In September, a new passenger record was set the new strategic plan, within which digitalisation and automation with 103,282 passengers using the airport on one day. The expansion are important components. We have already completed successful of the non-Schengen area is in full-swing. When finished in 2022, it tests of autonomous snowploughs and they are being tested at Oslo will provide a great boost for Oslo Airport and Avinor’s network. Airport during the winter 2019. In the autumn of 2019, we expect the first remotely operated tower to be put into operation. And in Expansion at Stavanger is almost complete, and traffic has started Bodø, project planning for the “world’s smartest airport” is in full to increase again. The planning of a new terminal at Tromsø is COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 9 underway which, if adopted, will boost capacity substantially at the incidents. This was confirmed during the major NATO exercise airport and give passengers a much better experience. Trident Juncture in 2018. Our employees were involved in several areas, and despite hosting several hundred visiting Allied aircraft, we Major traffic-related challenges in Southern Europe, as well as intercontinued to operate civilian traffic without delays. Over many years, nal challenges among some key operators within Avinor’s network Avinor has been involved with civil security and preparedness. We were sometimes detrimental to traffic punctuality last year. have a robust regime to tackle the challenges we currently face. Avinor’s objective is to be the best possible host for passengers and Our objective is that we all – employees, employee representatives, visitors. To achieve this, we work together with all the other players at the management, and the board – work together for a united and our airports. The results of the Airport Service Quality (ASQ) surveys strong Avinor that does its best for all of Norway, in line with the show steady, healthy growth for a fourth year, and we are approachremit from our owner. We will continue to develop our competitive ing our goal of being among the top ten in Europe within this area. airports and strengthen the air navigation services with world-class technology to ensure that the Avinor model will be the preferred Avinor plays a key role in the overall defence of Norway and contribmodel for providing aviation services in Norway even in the future. utes to a safe society that is as robust as possible regarding unwanted I’m proud that Avinor is at the forefront of sustainable aviation, in line with the UN’s sustainable development goal (SDG) number 13 – to stop climate change. Dag Falk-Petersen, CEO WE SUPPORT 10 AVINOR AS Corporate Governance The aim of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance is to ensure that companies that are listed on regulated markets in Norway practise corporate governance that clarifies the role of the shareholders, the board of directors, and the day-to-day management beyond what follows from legislation. This statement has been prepared in accordance with the framehave been established within economics and finance, society work of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance, and the environment, aviation safety and HSE, anti-corruption, last updated on 17 October 2018, with the adjustments that are customers and partners, and personnel and organisation. required due to the fact that Avinor is a wholly state-owned limited company. In addition to the general provisions of the Limited The Group’s policy in the field of the environment and corporate Liability Companies Act, special provisions apply to state-owned social responsibility outlines the overriding principles for the envilimited companies. ronment and corporate social responsibility in Avinor. The OECD’s guidelines for responsible business shall serve as the basis for efforts relating to corporate social responsibility. Avinor is affiliated with BUSINESS the Global Compact – the UN’s global initiative for corporate social responsibility – and reports on its corporate social responsibility in Avinor is a group of companies that operates in the Norwegian accordance with the GRI – the Global Reporting Initiative. transport sector. The parent company, Avinor AS, is wholly owned by the Norwegian state, represented by the Ministry of Transport The aim is for Avinor to be a leader in efforts relating to corporate and Communications. The Group’s head office is in Oslo. The social responsibility, to lead the way internationally in respect of company’s operations are described in its Articles of Association. climate work in aviation, and to improve its own environmental performance. ·· The company’s social obligations relate to owning, operating, and developing a national network of airports for the civilian aviation The Group’s ethics guidelines were most recently revised in the sector and a joint air navigation service for the civilian and spring of 2017. Furthermore the guidelines express the Group’s military sectors. attitudes in its interaction with customers, suppliers, colleagues, and the wider community. ·· The company’s operations must be carried out in a safe, efficient, and environmentally friendly manner and ensure good accessibilThe ethical guidelines are available at www.avinor.no. ity for all groups of travellers. Avinor is a member of Transparency International Norway. ·· The company must be self-financed to the greatest possible extent through its own revenues from its primary activities and commercial activities in connection with the airports. Financially EQUITY AND DIVIDENDS profitable units shall finance financially unprofitable units internally within the company. The company’s share capital is NOK 5,400,100,000, divided into 540,010 shares, each with a par value of NOK 10,000. The company’s ·· Operations may be run by the company itself, by wholly owned equity must correspond to at least 40 per cent of the sum total of subsidiaries, or by other companies that the Group has interests the company’s recognised interest-bearing long-term loans and in or co-operates with. The owner determines whether the equity at any given time. overall operation of an airport can be outsourced to others on the basis of a contract and whether such an airport is to be exempt Avinor AS is a wholly state-owned limited company. The sharefrom joint financing. holders’ rights are safeguarded by the responsible cabinet minister or their deputy at the General Meeting. The General Meeting is ·· The company shall carry out the duties imposed by society as not bound by the distribution of dividends proposed by the Board stipulated by its owner. of Directors. Dividends are declared each year. The Office of the Auditor General monitors the management of the Norwegian state’s The company’s Articles of Association are available at www.avinor.no. interests and can carry out any inspections that it deems necessary. Avinor is responsible for operating a unified system of 43 airports, one heliport, and the joint air navigation service in Norway. The EQUAL TREATMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS AND business is based on fulfilling and building on key social obligations TRANSACTIONS WITH CLOSE ASSOCIATES in all parts of the country, and it must be operated with safety as a high priority and with an emphasis on environmental consideraAvinor AS has one class of shares. The shares are not listed on a tions. To meet the owner’s demands, strategic primary objectives stock exchange and there are no transactions involving the shares. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 11 Intra-group agreements are entered into pursuant to the arm’s or the Articles of Association, must be dealt with by the General length principle on ordinary commercial terms. All such agreeMeeting. ments are made in writing. The members of the Board of Directors, CEO, and auditor who Transactions with close associates audited the previous year’s financial statements are be invited to The Board is not aware of any transactions during 2018 between the Annual General Meeting. The Chair of the Board and the CEO the company and its shareholders, Board members, executive are obligated to attend the General Meeting. The other Board mememployees, or their close associates that may be characterised as bers, as well as the auditor and the Office of the Auditor General, not immaterial transactions. are entitled to attend the meeting. Board members and executive employees are required to submit an The agenda is set by the Ministry of Transport and annual statement concerning close associates. Communications. Guidelines for Board members and executive employees The minutes of the General Meeting are available to the public. The Group’s ethics guidelines contain a separate point on how to handle conflicts of interest. In which it is stated that an employee shall never participate in or attempt to influence a decision if he/ NOMINATION COMMITTEE she has a conflict of interest or questions may be raised about the employee’s impartiality. Group employees can take on second jobs The General Meeting of Avinor AS consists of the Norwegian state or directorships in addition to their main employment in Avinor represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. The provided that these do not conflict with the employee’s duty of loyalty General Meeting has not appointed a nomination committee. and impartiality or with the proper performance of their duties. The guidelines also contain provisions on impartiality. If there is CORPORATE ASSEMBLY AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS doubt whether the person concerned is impartial, the issue must be – COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE discussed with the most immediate manager. The company does not have a corporate assembly as agreed with The state as shareholder the employees. Avinor is wholly owned by the Norwegian state. The Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications convenes quarterly The corporate democracy committee has approved a corporate meetings with the company. During these meetings, the company scheme whereby employees of Avinor AS and its subsidiaries may updates the owners about operations, financial developments, how be elected to the Board of Directors. Elections by and from among social responsibility is exercised, and other conditions considered the employees take place every other year. to be relevant to the owner at that time. No decisions are reached at these meetings, and the company does not receive any guidelines The Board of Directors consists of eight members. Five Board for how it must respond to individual issues. members are elected by the general meeting and three are elected by and from among the Group’s employees. GENERAL MEETING The Chair of the Board is elected by the General Meeting. All Board members are elected for a term of two years. The Minister of Transport and Communications constitutes the company’s General Meeting and is the company’s highest authority. The Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications does In accordance with Section 20-5 of the Limited Liability Companies not have its own Board members, but in accordance with the Act, the Ministry of Transport and Communications convenes Norwegian state’s principles of good corporate governance, all both Annual and Extraordinary General Meetings. The Ministry of Board members are expected to seek to safeguard the common Transport and Communications also determines how the meetings interests of the company and shareholders. The composition of will be convened. Notice of the meeting must be issued at least the Board of Directors is such that, in aggregate, it can safeguard one week prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting; cf. the the owner’s interests and the company’s need for skills, capacity, Limited Liability Companies Act Section 20-5, cf. Section 5-10. and diversity. Executive employees are not members of the Group’s Board of Directors. The Annual General Meeting is held each year by the end of the month of June. In accordance with the Articles of Association, The owner has a meeting with each Board member once a year. the Annual General Meeting must approve the annual report and financial statements, including the distribution of dividends. It also At the turn of the year 2018/2019, the Board of Directors consisted of: considers approval of the auditor’s remuneration, determines the remuneration of the Board for the upcoming period, provides a ·· Chair of the Board since 2018 – Anne Carine Tanum, 64 declaration on the determination of salaries and other remunera·· Vice-Chair of the Board since 2012 – Ola H. Strand, 61 tion to senior executives, appoints shareholder-elected members of ·· Board member since 2011 – Eli Skrøvset, 53 the Board, and considers any other matters that, according to law ·· Board member since 2015 – Herlof Nilssen, 60 12 AVINOR AS ·· Board member since 2016 – Linda Bernander Silseth, 56 committee and HSE committee have merged to become the HR, ·· Employee-elected Board member since 2011 – Heidi A. Sørum, 51 remuneration, and HSE committee. The joint committee has the ·· Employee-elected Board member since 2015 – Bjørn Tore same responsibilities as the two previous individual committees. Mikkelsen, 59 The new committee had one meeting in 2018. ·· Employee-elected Board member since 2017 – Olav Aadal, 51 At the turn of the year 2018/2019, the committee consisted of: Chair of the Board since 2010 Ola Mørkved Rinnan was replaced by Anne Carine Tanum at the 2018 Annual General Meeting. ·· Anne Carine Tanum (Chair) ·· Linda Bernander Silseth Information on the individual Board members is available at ·· Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen www.avinor.no. The audit committee has been renamed the audit and risk manageNine Board meetings were held in 2018. The meetings were fully ment committee. The committee has the same responsibilities as attended, with only a few exceptions. the previous audit committee: a preparatory and advisory body for the Board of Directors with respect to its responsibility for financial reporting, auditing, internal control, and overall risk management. WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The committee had a total of five meetings in 2018. The Board of Directors follows the requirements stipulated for At the turn of the year 2018/2019, the committee consisted of: the management and supervision of the company pursuant to the Norwegian Limited Liability Companies Act. In accordance with ·· Eli Skrøvset (Chair) the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors must ensure that ·· Herlof Nilssen the company is socially responsible. The Board of Directors’ tasks ·· Heidi Sørum are stipulated in separate directives. These directives are reviewed annually and updated in the event of changes to the relevant regulations or otherwise as required. The Board of Directors sets out an RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL annual agenda for its work, with a special focus on goals, strategies, and their implementation. The Board of Directors assesses its work To ensure the cohesive management of the company, a separate and competence on an annual basis. management system has been established, which consists of management documents, contingency plans, safety procedures, and The rules of procedure contain a separate section on impartiality processes for the management and control of operations. in which it is stated that the individual board member him/herself is responsible for informing the Board as to the circumstances of a An annual risk assessment of the Group’s activities is conducted, conflict of interest and must refrain from participating in deliberand measures to manage the risk situation are evaluated and ations or decisions where the member has a conflict of interest. implemented. The Board of Directors reviews the company’s risk In case of doubt, the matter must be submitted to the Chair of the management and internal control on an annual basis. Board. The minutes of the Board meetings shall reflect when one of the Board members is disqualified due to a conflict of interest in a As part of the Group’s internal control system Avinor has estabparticular case. lished an internal audit function. The Group’s internal audit function works in accordance with a mandate adopted by the New Board members are sent relevant information about the comBoard and pursuant to standards laid down by the Institute for pany and the work of the Board. This information is also available Internal Auditors. through an electronic board portal. The company’s appointed auditor must review the management’s The CEO’s responsibilities and duties are defined in directives laid dispositions annually. down by the Board of Directors. These directives are reviewed and updated as required. Systems for internal control and risk management related to the financial reporting process The Board of Directors has also established a remuneration Avinor’s ethics guidelines and core values establish the foundation committee to act as a preparatory subcommittee in matters for a good internal control environment with respect to financial relating to remuneration of executive employees of the company. reporting together with the company’s organisation, management The committee must prepare guidelines for and cases concerning fora, and reporting lines. the remuneration of executive employees, as well as assessing and monitoring the Group’s policy in this area on an ongoing basis. The Business and support processes that are essential to financial committee held two meetings in 2018. reporting have been identified. These include processes related to investment projects, revenues, financial items, closing of financial The Board of Directors has also established an HSE committee to statements, and IT systems that support these processes. Overall act as a preparatory subcommittee in matters relating to health, risk is managed and assessed centrally, while transaction mansafety, and the environment. The committee is responsible for agement is subject to both centralised and decentralised controls. evaluating relevant conditions in the Group’s operations related Considerable importance is attached to the thorough documentato HSE at a general level. The committee will support the Board of tion and assessment of important valuation items. Directors in its responsibility for internal control, the Report of the Board of Directors and Annual Report, and the overall HSE risk situControl measures are carried out in the ongoing production of ation. The committee held two meetings in 2018. The remuneration financial statements and through continuous financial monitoring. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 13 Systems for the evaluation/monitoring of the internal control The Group presents a complete set of annual financial statements related to the financial reporting process is under development and in conjunction with the Annual Report of the Board of Directors assessed on a continuous basis. and the Annual Report at the end of the month of March. Accounting figures are reported quarterly. REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors shall submit a plan for the operations, including subsidiThe General Meeting and its subcommittee determine the aries, to the Minister of Transport and Communications each year. remuneration of the Board of Directors. Remuneration is not based The contents of the plan must include the following: on performance and no options are issued to board members. Shareholder-elected Board members generally do not perform any ·· Description of the status of the market and the Group, including special tasks for the company beyond their position on the Board the development of the Group since the last plan was published. of Directors. Remuneration of the Board members is specified in a note to the annual financial statements. ·· The highlights of the Group’s operations for the coming years, including any major restructuring, development, and disconRemuneration to the Board members amounted to NOK 2,257,000 tinuation of existing operations, or the development of new in 2018. The remuneration is broken down as follows: The Chair of operations. the Board received NOK 444,000, the Vice-Chair NOK 269,000, and other Board members NOK 221,000. Alternates receive NOK 11,500 ·· The Group’s investment level, important investments, and for each meeting they attend. financing plans. Members of the audit and risk management committee (known as ·· Assessments of the financial development during the plan the audit committee in the first half of the year) received remunerperiod. ation totalling NOK 146,500 in 2018, comprising NOK 68,000 to the Chair and NOK 40,000 to the other two members. ·· Report on measures and results of the company’s role in society, social obligations, and corporate social responsibility. Members of the HR, remuneration, and HSE committee (known as two separate committees – the remuneration committee and the The Board of Directors shall submit any major changes to plans HSE committee – in the first half of the year) received remuneration that have previously been submitted to the Transport and totalling NOK 47,750 in 2018, comprising NOK 34,000 to the Chair Communications Minister. and NOK 20,000 to the other two members as of the second half of the year. TAKE-OVERS REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEES Avinor AS is wholly owned by the Norwegian state as represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Accordingly, The Board of Directors appoints the CEO and stipulates the CEO’s this point in the Code of Practice is not regarded as relevant to the salary following preliminary consideration by the HR, remucompany. neration, and HSE committee. The Board of Directors evaluates the CEO’s work and salary terms on an annual basis following preliminary consideration by the remuneration committee. AUDITOR The CEO informs and recommends to the HR, remuneration, and Avinor has an independent external auditor appointed by the HSE committee the remuneration for executive employees who General Meeting based on a recommendation from the Board of report to the CEO. Directors as a whole. The auditor submits a plan for the auditing work to the Board of Directors annually. Each year the auditor The Board of Directors prepared a statement on the determination prepares a letter to the Board of Directors (Management Letter) of salaries and other remuneration of executive employees. The summarising the audit of the company and the status of the compastatement is to be discussed at the Annual General Meeting. ny’s internal control. The remuneration of executive employees is specified in note 5 to The auditor has an annual meeting with the Board of Directors the annual financial statements. without managerial presence. The auditor also has an annual meeting with the audit and risk management committee without managerial presence. The auditor is entitled to attend the compaINFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION ny’s General Meeting. Public information on the Group is provided by the Group’s The auditor’s remuneration is broken down into auditing and other management. Each year the Group prepares a financial calendar consulting services, and it is specified in note 7 to the financial indicating the dates for the publication of financial information. statements. The General Meeting must approve the auditor’s This financial calendar is available on the company’s website and remuneration. the Oslo Børs website. Financial information is published in the form of a stock exchange notice before it is made available on www. avinor.no. 14 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 15 Report of the Board of Directors 2018 HIGHLIGHTS OF 2018 (Last year’s figures in parantheses) Air traffic measured in terms of passenger numbers increased by 2.8 Airport on a service concession. Following negotiations, it has been per cent in the period 1 January to 1 December 2018. Oslo Airport decided that Lufthavnutbygging AS and Widerøe Ground Handling saw growth of 3.8 per cent, while Bergen Airport, Flesland, saw AS will be responsible for the operation of the airport for 20 years growth of 3.2 per cent. Traffic levels at other airports were stable. At from May 2019 via a newly established company. the same time, the number of aircraft movements decreased. This trend is expected to continue as aircraft capacity is better utilised, Operations at Fagernes Airport ceased on 1 July 2018. No local while the number of aircraft movements is expected to remain actors who want to take over operations have been put in place. stable or fall. Avinor has been asked to ensure that the airport can be operated commercially by potential actors in the next 3 years. Sporting Safe and stable operations were maintained in 2018 despite the high aviation and possibly other activities must also be facilitated in the level of construction activity alongside the operation of the airports. region. Punctuality for the past 12 months averaged 83.5 per cent, while regularity averaged 98 per cent. The targets are 88 per cent and 98 On 14 June 2018, as a result of the increased volume of traffic to and per cent respectively. Reduced punctuality in 2018 was primarily from non-Schengen destinations, the Board decided to expand terdown to major traffic-related challenges in Southern Europe, as well minal capacity at Oslo Airport. On 1 October, work commenced on as internal challenges among some key operators within Avinor’s the expansion project known as “Expansion Non-Schengen East”. network. No aviation accidents or serious incidents were recorded This comprises the construction of a building of approximately in 2018 in which Avinor was a contributing party. 30,000 m2 linked to the East Pier, as well as associated pinnings and aircraft stands. The project is scheduled to be completed in the The Group’s operating income in 2018 was NOK 11,724 million second quarter of 2022. (NOK 11,526 million), and the profit after tax was NOK 1,170 million (NOK 499 million). Efforts to reduce costs and streamline the Avinor is currently studying the construction of a new airport in business are continuing. Bodø on behalf of the Ministry of Transport and Communications with the aim of providing more space for urban development. The Work on surveying opportunities for increasing the use of jet biofuel cost of the new airport is currently estimated at around NOK 7.5 is also continuing. Studies show that 30 per cent of all aviation fuel billion at current levels and could be completed between 2024-2026. provided at Avinor’s airports could be sustainable by 2030. In addiThe design work is ongoing and aims to establish the scope and tion, Avinor is working with other solutions, such as electrification, to costs. Its implementation is dependent on the funding being put in ensure an overall reduction in the climate footprint of civil aviation. place. The National Transport Plan 2018 2029 proposes financing the development based on the state, Avinor and the local authoriIn December 2016, the Ministry of Transport and Communications ties sharing the costs. decided to start work on outsourcing the operation of Haugesund 16 AVINOR AS Over the course of 2019, Avinor Air Navigation Services will Anne Carine Tanum was elected the new chair of the board of commence the implementation of remotely operated towers. The Avinor AS at its annual general meeting on 13 June 2018. construction of a remotely operated tower centre – the world’s largest relating to the number of airports involved – commenced Avinor’s head office is in Oslo. in January 2019 and is scheduled to be completed in the first half of 2020. ECONOMY AND FINANCES – GROUP An agreement has been reached with the unions that the occupational pension scheme in the Norwegian Public Service The Group’s operating income in 2018 was NOK 11,724 million Pension Fund will close as of 1 January 2019. A contribution-based (NOK 11,526 million), and the profit after tax was NOK 1,170 million retirement pension pursuant to the Defined-Contribution Pensions (NOK 499 million). Act will be introduced on the same date. Current employees of Avinor AS and Svalbard Lufthavn AS can choose whether they want Year-on-year operating revenues for airport operations increased by to transition to the defined-contribution pension, while all new 1.3 per cent in 2018, driven by an increase in traffic volumes and an employees after 1 January 2019 will receive a defined-contribution increase in sales and rental income at Oslo Airport. Total operating retirement pension. In Avinor Air Navigation Services, it has been income within air navigation services increased by 1.1 per cent. agreed that all employees under the age of 53 will transition to a defined-contribution plan. Employees over 53 may choose to Operating expenses totalled NOK 7,523 million in 2018 (NOK 8,400 remain in the public service pension scheme or transition to the million), which is a year-on-year reduction of 9.6 per cent. Excluding defined-contribution pension scheme. the plan change relating to the transition to a new pension scheme, the reduction is 8.1 per cent compared with the previous year. The Environmentally hazardous additives (PFAS) have previously been reduction in operating expenses was primarily due to one-off costs detected in fire-extinguishing foam and have been dispersed into in 2017 related to increased pension liabilities, a settlement with the the environment around airports. Work on clarifying the scope of Norwegian Armed Forces, environmental provisions, and expenses the measures that will need to be implemented is ongoing. The related to maintaining safe and stable operations in parallel with Norwegian Environment Agency and the Norwegian Food Safety the expansion of Oslo Airport. Authority have informed Avinor that new, stricter limit values will soon be proposed in relation to managing PFAS pollution. A Total depreciation, amortisation, and write-downs for 2018 proposal for regulatory changes will be made at the hearing in 2019. amounted to NOK 2,103 million (NOK 1,889 million). The increase This involves a risk of increased costs. compared to the previous year is due to the completion and commissioning of several facilities that were under construction. The Board of Directors participates actively in corporate social responsibility efforts by way of strategic work and the discussion of Operating profit (EBIT) for 2018 amounted to NOK 2,097 million individual matters. As part of its corporate social responsibility to (NOK 1,237 million). The positive change in operating profit was facilitate climate-friendly and sustainable aviation for the future, due to good income growth and a focus on costs, as well as high Avinor is continuing its involvement in assessing the possibility one-off expenses in 2017. of the production and use of sustainable jet biofuel in Norway. At the same time, the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and The Group’s net financial costs in 2018 amounted to NOK 601 milCommunications has commissioned Avinor and the Norwegian lion (NOK 598 million). The financial result was influenced by lower Civil Aviation Authority to explore the framework for a “programme interest income and a reduction in capitalised interest expenses for the introduction of electric aircraft in commercial aviation in due to completed construction projects. This was only partly Norway”. countered by lower interest expenses due to reduced interest-bearing liabilities, and the financial result for 2017 was affected by losses from the realisation of currency and interest hedging contracts. FACTS ABOUT AVINOR The Group’s cash flow in 2018 was positive at NOK 843 million Avinor AS is a state-owned limited liability company tasked with (NOK -900 million) before changes for liabilities. Avinor paid NOK facilitating safe, environmentally friendly, and efficient aviation 250 million (NOK 550 million) in dividends to the state in 2018. across Norway. Its operations encompass a network of 43 airports, one heliport, and air navigation services throughout the country. Interest-bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2018 amounted to As at 31 December 2018, the company’s balance sheet amounted to NOK 20,234 million, which is a decrease of NOK 1,387 million since around NOK 43.7 billion. At the same date, the company employed 31 December 2017. The Group’s equity totalled NOK 43.4 billion 3,099 (3,098) people. as at 31 December 2018 (NOK 43.8 billion) with an equity ratio of 33.3 (32.1) per cent. Equity as a percentage of the sum of equity and The shares in Avinor AS are wholly owned by the Norwegian state interest-bearing liabilities pursuant to the definition in the Articles as represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. of Association was 44.0 (41.8) per cent as at 31 December 2018. The Ministry of Transport and Communications manages the ownership of the Norwegian state and determines Avinor’s financial In light of developments in interest rate markets and other factors, framework. The Ministry of Transport and Communications is equity was charged by NOK 406 million after tax as at 31 December the highest authority for Norwegian aviation and lays down the 2018 through expanded profits. Much of this is due to negative Civil Aviation Authority’s regulations that have consequences for estimate deviations in the calculation of pension obligations. This Avinor’s operations. was partly compensated by an increase in value of interest rate COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 17 derivatives as a result of an upswing in the interest market. As at There are technical, economical, and regulatory risks associated 31 December 2018, a discount rate of 2.6 per cent and a long-term with air navigation development projects. expected wage increase of 2.75 per cent were applied when calculating the Group’s pension obligations. Major airports are a key source of funding for the rest of the airport network in Norway. The earnings of major airports are especially As at 31 December 2018, the Group’s cash reserves amounted to vulnerable to economic fluctuations and competition from airports NOK 6,340 million, distributed between NOK 1,740 million in bank outside of Avinor’s network. deposits and NOK 4,600 million in unutilised drawing rights. Earnings from commercial offerings to passengers at the airports are very important to the Group’s funding. Changes to the ECONOMY AND FINANCES – AVINOR AS framework conditions for the duty-free scheme in particular could have a major impact on the Group’s earnings and economic value. In 2018, the Parent Company – Avinor AS – had an operating All of Avinor’s income is invested in the development of Norwegian income of NOK 10,397 million (NOK 10,219 million) and the profit aviation. after tax was NOK 910 million (NOK 1,435 million). Financial hedging instruments are used to curtail risk related to The Parent Company’s balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 changes in interest, exchange rates, and energy prices. The value amounted to NOK 42,035 million (NOK 42,182 million) with an of hedging instruments changes in line with prices in the market equity ratio of 33.2 per cent (32.9 per cent). and may affect profits. When investing the Group’s surplus cash, emphasis is given to the issuer’s solidity and the liquidity of the In 2018, Avinor AS had a cash flow before the payment of dividends investment. The Group’s liquid assets are deposited in a bank on and changes in liabilities of NOK -479 million (NOK -941 million). negotiated terms. Dividends paid for the year amounted to NOK 250 million (NOK 550 million). Interest-bearing liabilities as at 31 December 2018 In connection with the National Transport Plan (NTP) for 2018amounted to NOK 20,234 million (NOK 19,309 million). 2029, the Storting approved the construction of a new airport in Bodø in the first part of the NTP period (2018-2023). The state will allocate NOK 2.2 billion to the project, plus NOK 0.2 billion to APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT FOR THE YEAR the public search and rescue helicopter service. The government assumes that Avinor will contribute NOK 1.4 billion, which correThe Board proposes the following appropriation of profit for the year: sponds to the estimated investment the current airport will need over the next few years in 2017 money, plus the value of buildings In dividend: NOK 584.9 million and property in today’s airport. Other expenses must be covered by In Group contributions: NOK 1.9 million local contributions. It remains to be clarified how the local share of To other reserves: NOK 323.7 million the financing will be implemented. The annual financial statements have been prepared under the A new public service occupational pension schemes Act is schedassumption that the company will continue as a going concern uled to take effect from 2020. New regulations for coordinating based on forecasts and the calculated present value of estimated public service occupational pensions and the National Insurance future cash flow. See note 12 to the annual financial statements for Fund have also been adopted. The Ministry of Labour and Social further details. Affairs has prepared a consultation paper on the proposed legislative amendments it deems necessary. The consultation paper does not contain any legislative proposals for a new early retirement RISK (AFP) scheme or special rules for people at particular ages. The coordination rules have not been implemented and therefore have The Group’s operations are focused on safe air traffic management, not been taken account of in the financial statements. Avinor’s with procedures and measures to minimise the risks and consepublic service occupational pension scheme with Norwegian Public quences of accidents and serious incidents. Developments with Service Pension Fund will be closed with effect from 1 January regard to national and international regulatory issues may have 2019. A contribution-based retirement pension pursuant to the financial consequences for the Group. Defined-Contribution Pensions Act will be introduced on the same date. Employees of Avinor AS and Svalbard Lufthavn AS can Avinor safeguards national sectoral policy objectives. The choose whether they want to transition to the defined-contribution Norwegian state sets guidelines for a number of conditions, pension In Avinor Air Navigation Services, it has been agreed that including airport structure, emergency preparedness, aviation fees, all employees under the age of 53 will transition to a defined-contriand corporate social responsibility. The scope and organisation of bution plan. Employees over 53 may choose to remain in the public sectoral policy guidelines may change over time. service pension scheme or transition to the defined-contribution pension scheme. Seen in isolation, the coordination changes and The organisation’s capitalised infrastructure is long term, and the transition to a defined-contribution retirement pension scheme the management of operations is largely governed by laws and are expected to reduce Avinor’s pensions liabilities, while the new regulations. As a result, Avinor has a high percentage of fixed costs public service occupational pension scheme is expected to increase that vary to a limited extent with changes in traffic volumes and its liabilities. Overall, the assessment is that the three factors will capacity utilisation. The Group’s earnings and financial value are not have significant accounting consequences for the Group’s affected by changes in traffic volume. pension liabilities. 18 AVINOR AS The airports have discharge permits that require risk assessments For more details about corporate governance in Avinor, please refer to identify potential sources of acute pollution that represent a to the chapter “Corporate governance”. risk of damage to the external environment. Work is continuing on reducing the risk of incidents occurring that harm the environment, while at the same time existing pollution is being surveyed CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY and cleaned up. Environmentally hazardous additives (PFAS) in fire-extinguishing foam which have dispersed into the environAvinor’s corporate social responsibility efforts are based on the ment around the airport have been detected. Work on clarifying expectations set forth with regard to corporate social responsibility the scope of the measures that will need to be implemented is in Avinor’s Articles of Association and in the Norwegian Accounting ongoing. Risk assessments have been conducted for possible Act. Avinor takes the OECD’s guidelines for responsible business as damage to health and the environment. The financial consethe basis for its corporate social responsibility efforts, and it signed quences depend on the extent of the measures that will need to be up to the UN Global Compact in 2014. Avinor’s efforts cover areas implemented and the authorities’ requirements and the measures such as human rights, employee rights and social conditions, the available. The Norwegian Environment Agency has ordered the external environment, and combatting corruption. implementation of measures at Harstad/Narvik Airport and at Oslo Airport, and instructed Kristiansand Airport and Svalbard For more information about Avinor’s work with corporate social Airport to draw up action plans. The Norwegian Environment responsibility, including climate, environment, flight safety, HSE, Agency has issued an overarching order according to which Avinor impartiality, anti-corruption, and safe notification, please refer to must compile the data and results from completed PFAS surveys the chapter on corporate social responsibility. See also § 3-3c of the and draw up a prioritised series of measures for the remaining Norwegian Accounting Act. airports. The list is intended to illustrate how one should prioritise measures at the various airports, as well as how much PFAS can be removed in total from Avinor’s airports at various levels of cost. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT This will provide the basis for assessing the cleanup. The deadline for reporting is 1 September 2019. The Norwegian Environment Avinor is implementing several projects to help optimise the use Agency and the Norwegian Food Safety Authority have informed of Norwegian airspace. This work helps to improve safety, increase Avinor that new, stricter limit values will soon be proposed in capacity, streamline service delivery, and reduce environmental relation to managing PFAS pollution. A proposal for regulatory impact. changes will be made at the hearing in 2019. This involves a risk of increased costs. For more information on Avinor’s research and development work, please refer to the chapter on corporate social responsibility. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN AVINOR PERSONNEL AND ORGANISATION Good corporate governance in Avinor aims to ensure that the maximum possible value is created and business risk is curtailed. There were 3,099 permanent employees in the Group at the end of The company’s core values and ethics guidelines are a basic premise the year. Permanent and temporary employees performed work for corporate governance in Avinor. corresponding to 3,043 full-time equivalents. The average age of all employee groups in the Group is 46.7. The percentage of women As the owner, the state focuses on ensuring that state-owned among permanent employees is 22.5 per cent. The number of companies adhere to the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate women in executive positions is representative of the total number Governance. The Board attaches importance to following this of women in the Group. The percentage of women employees is recommendation regarding the Group’s corporate governance monitored closely. Avinor’s recruitment policy contains clear guidewhenever possible. The Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate lines that promote a gender balance, from the design of recruitment Governance is available at www.nues.no. adverts to the interview and selection process. Avinor has issued bonds that are listed on Oslo Børs and Emphasis is placed on ensuring that employees have equal opporLuxembourg Børs. Oslo Børs has been chosen as the Group’s home tunities in the Group, irrespective of their gender, age, disability, market. The Group follows the recommendations of Oslo Børs ethnicity, or cultural background. Avinor conducts systematised with respect to corporate governance whenever possible. Section performance reviews that ensure neutral salary and career devel3-3b of the Norwegian Accounting Act stipulates that companies opment. Employee surveys confirm that employees enjoy equal under a statutory accounting obligation which issue securities in opportunities. Commitment within the Group is high. accordance with Section 5-4 of the Securities Trading Act must provide a report on their policies and practices for corporate As an Inclusive Working Life company, Avinor emphasises the governance either in their annual report or in a document referred prevention of exclusion from work and has schemes in place to in their annual report. Point 3.10 in Oslo Børs’ document entitled especially for employees who no longer meet physical and medical “Bond regulations – entry requirements and ongoing obligations” requirements due to illness or other circumstances. In 2018, several states that the borrower must provide an account of its policies and schemes were implemented for the employment of people with practices relating to corporate governance in a similar manner. The disabilities and reduced occupational opportunities. Norwegian Accounting Act is available at www.lovdata.no. Oslo Børs’ regulations are available at www.oslobors.no. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 19 Avinor’s strategy for the period 2018 to 2023 accounts for a high Avinor must be a professional and attractive employer. For more turnover rate in connection with the introduction of new technology, information on Avinor as an employer, please refer to the chapter innovation, and cost-cutting. Co-operation between the Group’s on corporate social responsibility. management and the employee representatives is considered to be constructive. Continuous improvement is a strategic focus area for Avinor, and in 2018 a Group-wide training framework was OUTLOOK AND GENERAL CONDITIONS implemented for use throughout the organisation. In 2018, Avinor launched its leadership platform programme, which is a continuation Mobility and efficient air transport are essential for social developof the Group’s previous leadership development programmes. Avinor ment, as well as for the growth of the Norwegian travel industry and should be an attractive employer and ensure that talent and skills businesses. are fully utilised for the benefit of both Avinor and the individual employee. Consequently, a programme has been developed for Strong traffic growth is expected in the coming years. Avinor employees that stand out in terms of their initiative, attitude, and is continuing to pursue activities and investments that further skills. All measures within management and employee development develop our extensive network of airports and our air navigation at Avinor use cultural development as their superstructure. services, thus facilitating a good range of regional, national, and international aviation services. Absence due to illness in 2018 was 4.7 per cent. The Group has worked actively to reduce breaches of the working time regulations Avinor’s initiatives to ensure the sustainable development of aviation in the Working Environment Act. 2018 saw a continued increase in are continuing. Key measures in the years to come include envithe Group’s total number of violations. This is because some units ronmental measures at the company’s airports and facilitating the have faced major staffing challenges at times. There is a downward development of electric aircraft and jet biofuels for use in aviation. trend in other units. The Board would like to thank all the employees and partners for their efforts in 2018. Oslo, 3 April 2019 The Board of Directors of Avinor AS Anne Carine Tanum Ola H. Strand Eli Skrøvset Linda Bernander Silseth Chair of the Board Vice Chair Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Heidi Anette Sørum Olav Aadal Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 20 AVINOR AS Corporate social responsibility Avinor’s corporate social responsibility is divided into four primary areas: ensuring good aviation services for the whole of Norway, being a driving force in climate and environmental efforts,being a professional and attractive employerand ensuring that we conduct our business responsibly. Avinor has signed up and is contributing to the fulfilment of several ASSESSMENT OF KEY FACTORS international standards through its corporate social responsibility efforts. Such standards include the OECD guidelines for responsible To ensure that the operation and development of aviation is business and the ten principles adopted by the UN Global Compact. sustainable, good dialogue with Avinor’s stakeholders is essential. These are, in turn, based on the UN Declaration of Human Rights, Dialogue with those who depend on Avinor’s services or who, in the ILO’s conventions on fundamental principles and rights at work, various ways, are affected by our operations is essential for Avinor the Rio declaration, and the UN Convention against Corruption. to prioritise what best serve our stakeholders and our society. Dialogue meetings and stakeholder analyses are regularly conducted in AVINOR AND THE UN’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS order to understand and identify what key factors – that is, factors that create value – are most important to Avinor’s stakeholders. Together In the autumn of 2015 in Paris, the UN adopted new goals for with market and customer analyses, this lays the foundation for the sustainable development – Agenda 2030. This agenda is specified Group’s objectives and strategies, which are addressed, adopted, and by way of 17 goals, known as SDGs, and 169 sub-goals covering monitored by the Group’s management and Board of Directors. economic, social, and environmental sustainability – linked to combating poverty. The goals are universal and include all countries Avinor’s most important stakeholders are its customers – both and all participants. Business and industry is a key participant in airlines and their passengers – politicians, airport partners, local efforts to achieve these goals. and central businesses, the Norwegian Armed Forces, research environments, and special interest groups. Several of the SDGs are in line with Avinor’s own goals in its corporate social responsibility efforts. This applies in particular to In the spring of 2017 an extensive stakeholder analysis was SDG 9 on innovation and infrastructure, and SDG 13 to stop climate conducted in relation to efforts pertaining to the Group’s strategy change. Avinor’s primary area being a driving force in climate plan for the period 2018 to 2023. Stakeholders have given their full and environmental efforts also coincides with SDG 14 life below endorsement of the Avinor model, which involves the transfer of water, and SDG 15 life on land. Being a professional and attractive funds from profitable airports to those that are not profitable. There employer and ensuring the responsible business conduct largely is awareness of the Group’s costs, which was also pointed out in a coincide with SDG 8 decent work and economic growth, SDG 17 report by the Office of the Auditor General in 2018. global partnership, and SDG 5 gender equality. Stakeholders commend Avinor’s effective handling of capacity Avinor is aware of the challenges facing the Group when corporate challenges during the major and successful terminal projects at social responsibility dictates that we must prepare for further Oslo Airport and Bergen Airport, Flesland in 2017. development and anticipated growth in air travel, while ensuring that this does not conflict with national climate targets and international climate commitments. Aviation will contribute to the DIALOGUE WITH AVINOR’S STAKEHOLDERS growth and transformation of the Norwegian society and business as a whole. Furthermore, the industry depends on innovation and Avinor wants to have open and fact-based dialogue with its technological advances in order to meet its own targets for reduced stakeholders. Dialogue at the political level takes place primarily emissions and expected traffic growth in the foreseeable future. through Avinor’s owner, the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and We note that the political platform of the extended government is Communications, in the Storting, and through the Transport and pointing to facilitating the use of electric aircraft and the increased Communications Committee in consultation with the Ministry of use of biofuels in aircraft. The realisation of ambitious goals relies Transport and Communications. Stakeholder dialogue at the politon close co-operation between the government, the research sector, ical and government levels takes place primarily by way of fixed business and our industry. meetings. Dialogue takes place under the auspices of the Group’s executive management and the Board of Directors. In addition In our reporting on corporate social responsibility, we strive to identhere is extensive dialogue with the political and administrative tify how our own goals and the UN’s SDGs help to strengthen each management at the local, municipal, and county levels. Avinor is other. In this way, we want to illustrate that Avinor is contributing working to strengthen and systematise this dialogue. to development that is more sustainable at a both local, national, and global levels. Business policy committees have been established in a number of municipalities and counties where Avinor is represented. Local COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 21 political stakeholders are also represented here. The primary focus representatives in Avinor Group’s Board of Directors represent is capacity and route development, as well as how Avinor can help Avinor’s employees. The Board of Directors of Avinor Air Navigation to support the development of local and regional commerce. Services also has employee-elected Board members. There are a number of formal and informal fora for dialogue with airlines. A co-operation forum that meets four to six times a year FOUR KEY AREAS IN CORPORATE SOCIAL has been established as the highest level of forum. This is where RESPONSIBILITY EFFORTS Avinor’s executive management meets with the management of the airlines. A separate committee – the AOC (Airline Operators Through its dialogue with stakeholders and internal strategy Committee) – that also meets regularly has been established at the processes, Avinor has identified four primary areas for its corporate biggest airports. Climate and environment issues, fees, and traffic social responsibility efforts: development and airport capacity are all key topics in Avinor’s dialogue with airlines. ·· Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway ·· Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate and Dialogue with passengers takes place by way of regular customer environmental challenges within aviation surveys and meetings with stakeholder organisations. Passengers ·· Avinor shall be professional and attractive employer. are especially concerned about punctuality and regularity, airport ·· Avinor shall ensure that it conducts its business responsibly. services, parking, and ground transport. Avinor’s corporate social responsibility efforts are based on the Dialogue with suppliers of Avinor’s goods and services takes place by expectations set forth for corporate social responsibility in Avinor’s way of formal meetings, through negotiations, and through contract Articles of Association, the Norwegian Accounting Act, and the follow-up. There is a particular focus on the competitive basis, as well OECD’s guidelines for responsible business. Avinor signed up to as templates and procedures relating to processes and deliveries. the UN Global Compact in 2014. This report has been prepared in Efforts to combat corruption and ensure that working conditions accordance with the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative are in line with universal human rights and current agreements (Standards/Core). applicable in the workplace are a key element in the dialogue. The Executive Vice President for Communications and Markets Within the Group, the model of co-operation between employee is responsible for monitoring and reporting on Avinor’s corporate representatives and management is being further developed social responsibility efforts and for ensuring that efforts relating to in order to ensure good working conditions, stable operations, individual themes are in line with this. Avinor has no own staff for and cost-effectiveness throughout the Group. Three of the eight corporate social responsibility. 22 AVINOR AS Goals and results for corporate social responsibility in 2018 Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway SDG AVINOR’S GOAL RESULTS IN 2018 Punctuality: 88 per cent within 15 minutes 83.5 per cent Regularity: 98 per cent 98 per cent All airports must be certified in ·· New environmental management has been established whereby Avinor’s accordance with the ISO 14001:2015 centralised environmental management and operations have been certified in standard accordance with the ISO 14001:2015 standard ·· From the beginning of 2019, all of Avinor’s airports will be covered by a joint Avinor certificate Air transport must be accessible by ·· Avinor standards have been established for terminal and operational buildings. everyone These standards cater for universal design requirements in construction projects ·· Avinor’s airports universally designed by 2025 Avinor must streamline, modernise, and ·· Facilitating increased non-Schengen traffic at Avinor Oslo Airport invest in increased capacity ·· Planning of a seafood centre for air freight at Avinor Oslo Airport ·· Planning of a third runway at Avinor Oslo Airport ·· New Bodø airport being planned ·· Upgrading of Stavanger Airport, Sola, soon complete ·· Development of Tromsø Airport planned ·· Operation of Haugesund Airport made subject to competition ·· Centre for remotely operated towers under construction in Bodø ·· Digitalisation and automation of a number of services, including autonomous vehicles Avinor shall work to improve the ·· Avinor’s passenger satisfaction has never been higher than in 2018 (ASQ) customer experience ·· Hospitality project completed in Oslo and Bergen ·· New digital customer communication platform (CRM) Avinor shall prevent undesired ·· There were no aviation accidents with or without personal injury or serious incidents and ensure good emergency aviation incidents in Norwegian aviation to which Avinor or Avinor Air preparedness Navigation Services was a contributing party in 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 23 Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation SDG AVINOR’S GOAL RESULTS IN 2018 By 2022, Avinor must halve its total ·· Avinor’s own verifiable greenhouse gas emissions from airport operations controllable greenhouse gas emissions as totalled approximately compared with 2012 and help to reduce ·· 17 500 tonnes of CO2 equivalents, approximately the same as in 2012. emissions from ground transport and air traffic ·· Greenhouse gas emissions from all jet fuels for civilian purposes produced 2.8 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents ·· Electric aircraft delivered in the spring of 2018 ·· Advanced biodiesel at Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen, Ålesund, Molde, and Kristiansand airports. ·· 11 electric and 12 hybrid vehicles ·· Increase in the number of charging points ·· Number plate recognition at all airports ·· Share of public transport 71 per cent at Oslo Airport ·· 25,000 curved approaches at Oslo Airport ·· Sustainable jet biofuels at Oslo and Bergen airports Avinor must reduce purchased energy by ·· Two 1,500-metre-deep geothermal energy wells at Oslo Airport 25 per cent by 2020 compared with the ·· Snow disposal at Oslo Airport for cooling energy consumption of its buildings and facilities in 2012 ·· Solar panel array expanded at Svalbard Airport ·· All airports energy management and energy monitoring system Activities at Avinor’s airports must not ·· More de-icing chemicals than permitted were used by eleven airports result in any new ground contamination ·· Measures/plans for removing PFOS at Harstad/Narvik, Fagernes, Oslo or worsening of water quality Avinor shall work actively to reduce ·· Minimal increase in noise from aircraft despite significantly increased traffic the impact of noise from aircraft and at Oslo Airport helicopter traffic on those living in the ·· Compliance with the new departure corridors 95 per cent vicinity of 10 airports before 2020 ·· Noise mapping undertaken at Bergen Airport, Flesland new flightpaths for helicopters introduced ·· Noise mapping undertaken at Sandane, Båtsfjord, Sogndal, Hasvik, and Kirkenes 24 AVINOR AS Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer SDG AVINOR’S GOAL RESULTS IN 2018 Create a Group-wide culture of ·· 70 per cent of employees have a high or very high commitment to their jobs improvement ·· Negotiation process completed for new pension scheme ·· Group-wide training framework implemented ·· Digital maturity analysis conducted ·· Avinor’s leadership platform launched ·· Project for reorganisation of training underway ·· Programme developed for employees that excel ·· 20 interns (target: 42) Absence due to illness of 4.5 per cent ·· 4.7 percent absence due to illness or lower ·· Inclusive Working Life committee created ·· New procedures and courses introduced for following up absence due to illness H1 value < 2 ·· H1 value: 3.8 H2 value < 10 ·· H2 value: 5.1 ·· 11 injuries resulting in absence, of which 4 serious Reduce breaches of working hours ·· Most units have reduced the number of violations, but some have endured provisions unpredictable staffing challenges at times. Followed up closely by way of concrete measures The percentage of women in the Group ·· The percentage of women among permanent employees is 22.5 per cent shall reach 25 per cent in 2020 ·· The proportion of women in managerial positions is approximately equal to the proportion of women in the company, with 20.5 per cent in the Group as a whole, 33.3 per cent in the executive management, and 50 per cent on the Board of Directors ·· A women’s network was established to assist HR in attracting and retaining skilled women Avinor is an Inclusive Working Life ·· Adapted work agreements with 30 employees company, with the objective of preventing exclusion from the labour market Avinor will help to increase employment ·· Several schemes were implemented for people with disabilities and reduced for people with disabilities and reduced occupational opportunities occupational opportunities Prevent HSE non-compliance, personal ·· HR, remuneration, and HSE committee established as a sub-committee to injuries, and work-related illness the Group’s Board of Directors ·· HSE action plans established for all local units ·· Skills plan drafted as required by the Norwegian Work Environment Act COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 25 Avinor shall ensure that it conducts its business responsibly SDG AVINOR’S GOAL RESULTS IN 2018 Zero-tolerance policy in relation to all ·· Anti-corruption programme developed with a focus on prevention and forms of corruption control activities ·· Corruption risk monitoring element implemented within the Group’s system for strategic risk management ·· Risk and vulnerability analysis implemented for corruption and misconduct in project management environments in development and IT ·· Identified risks addressed via compliance officer and professionals Employees, suppliers, and partners must ·· Management teams and staff exposed to risk completed training tailored to be familiar with and comply with Avinor’s those risks ethics guidelines ·· Mandatory course for all employees and hired personnel ·· Avinor’s contracting parties agree on responsible business practices ·· All employees are required to register their own external duties, second jobs, and other roles Avinor shall have effective procedures ·· Committee appointed for handling notifications of reprehensible conditions in for the management of reprehensible all parts of the organisation actions or situations in all parts of the ·· Fewer than 200 notifications received all processed organisation ·· Avinor’s compliance function followed up the Group’s compliance with external and internal regulations relating to corruption, misconduct, and ethics rules. Report to management/Board Avinor will work to combat anti·· Group-wide guidelines established to supplement public regulations to ensure competitive behaviour competition in the conclusion of individual contracts Avinor shall ensure that all parties to ·· Co-operation agreement concluded with the Norwegian Tax Administration agreements have ethics guidelines and regarding the intensification of efforts to combat violations of labour market take their corporate social responsibility legislation seriously ·· Follows public procurement regulations Avinor shall ensure the responsible ·· Data protection officer appointed processing of personal data ·· System established for internal control ·· Data processing agreements concluded with subcontractors ·· No complaints received concerning breaches of customers’ privacy in 2018 26 AVINOR AS Avinor shall ensure good aviation services for the whole of Norway Avinor’s social obligations relate to owning, operating, and developing a national network of airports for the civilian aviation sector and a joint air navigation service for the civilian and military sectors. Operations must be carried out in a safe, efficient, and environmentally friendly manner and ensure good accessibility for all groups of travellers. The foundation of our operations is conducted in challenging at Avinor Oslo Airport. The new seafood centre will be able to weather conditions and topography, and is constantly evolving. In handle up to 250,000 tonnes of seafood every year, which will help order to meet the requirements and expectations of our stakeholdto make Norwegian seafood more competitive in a global context. ers, we have prioritised four primary objectives: The seafood centre will offer industrialised logistics solutions for the seafood industry with the future in mind. There are currently 14 ·· developing competitive airports different freight airlines serving Oslo Airport each week. ·· contributing to the sustainable growth of Norway and its regions ·· creating valuable experiences for passengers and visitors Planning of a third runway at Avinor Oslo Airport ·· maintaining a proud and improvement-oriented corporate culture In March 2018, Avinor and Ullensaker were commissioned by the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications to commence planning a third runway in accordance with the AIRPORT DEVELOPMENT Norwegian Planning and Building Act, based on the eastern option. In December, the executive committee of Ullensaker Municipality Avinor has a good basis for fulfilling its corporate social responsibility sent a legal opinion to the ministry, informing the ministry that it and ensuring the development and maintenance of a network of had decided to halt work on a third runway until further notice. airports, big and small, the length and breadth of Norway. In its This was justified by the fact that the municipality believes that the ownership report in 2017, the government highlighted in particular location issue was not dealt with in accordance with the rules of the successful expansion of Bergen Airport, Flesland, and Avinor Oslo the Norwegian Planning and Building Act or the procedure that the Airport. The development of Avinor’s airports has continued in 2018. Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications had itself outlined. Facilitating increased non-Schengen traffic at Avinor Oslo Airport Avinor has taken note of the executive committee’s decision and In recent years, there has been significantly greater growth in traffic as at mid-January 2019, Avinor is awaiting information from the to and from countries outside of the Schengen Area at Oslo Airport Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications regarding than in traffic within it. It is considered absolutely essential that we further progress. build good, adapted infrastructure to handle this traffic. This will help to increase Norway’s competitiveness and provide considerNew Bodø Airport able economic benefits. On 1 October 2018, work started on the The government wishes to enable sound urban development and extension project “Expansion Non-Schengen East” at Oslo Airport. regional development in Bodø. In connection with the closure of The project consists of a building of about 30,000 square metres Bodø airbase and the Norwegian Armed Forces’ subsequent dislinked to the eastern end of the terminal. Construction work is posal of state property, Bodø Municipality has taken the initiative scheduled to be completed in the second quarter of 2022. The total to relocate Bodø Airport and free up plots of land close to the city budget for the extension is NOK 3.3 billion. The current capacity centre for development. As part of the documentation forming the of the area for non-Schengen traffic is 5.5 million passengers per basis of the National Transport Plan (NTP) for 2018 to 2029 from year. After the expansion, capacity will be approximately 8 million the departments and Avinor, a socioeconomic analysis was conpassengers per year. ducted illustrating that this could be socioeconomically profitable. The socioeconomic benefit is achieved primarily through reduced Planning of a seafood centre for air freight transport costs for the population and businesses compared to at Avinor Oslo Airport an alternative in which urban development takes place further In August 2018, Avinor and Worldwide Flight Services (WFS) away from the centre. Relocation also means that Avinor can avoid signed a letter of intent to operate a seafood centre for air freight making necessary and costly upgrades at the current airport. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 27 Avinor Oslo Airport. According to the NTP for 2018 to 2029, the state will contribute possible. In February 2019, the government gave the green light to NOK 2.4 billion, of which NOK 0.2 billion is allocated for the transfer a tender process for the construction of the Arctic Circle Airport in of rescue helicopter service. The remainder of the funding will be Rana Municipality. The airports Mo i Rana and Mosjøen will enjoy covered by Avinor and local sources of finance. Through the NTP, upgrades to the tune of NOK 70 million to ensure their stable and the government is tasking Avinor with the continued planning of safe operation in anticipation of the new airport. the move with the aim of conducting a concession application. The project will undergo external quality assurance in accordance with Upgrading of Stavanger Airport, Sola, soon complete the state’s quality assurance scheme for major state investment Following a decline in traffic which started in 2014 as a result of the projects. Avinor’s planning work is underway, and the construction stagnation in the oil industry, optimism has returned to the Stavanger and establishment of a new airport will take place alongside the region. This is evident in things like increased offshore investment, a operation of the current airport. The cost of the project is being reduction in unemployment, and a greater focus on tourism. explored as part of planning efforts. This optimism has so far led to an increase in domestic traffic. The project supports Bodø Municipality’s “Smart Bodø” initiative, International traffic has seen the same level of growth, partly due to which offers huge potential for working with the public sector, the limited range of flights. research environments, and business and industry. “New Airport – New City” will provide a cohesive end result for the city’s inhabitSeveral major development projects will be completed in 2019. ants, with reduced greenhouse gas emissions and more efficient Customer satisfaction surveys already show that passengers transport for the city’s population, visitors, and local and regional appreciate the upgrades that have been completed. businesses. The aim is for the new airport to open between 2024 and 2026 and provide a capacity of 2.5 million passengers. The airport is otherwise involved in several projects, including the electrification of transport and the provision of electric aircraft. New airport in Mo i Rana In 2017, the Storting decided to construct a new major airport in Mo Development of Tromsø Airport i Rana to replace the current local airport at Røssvoll. The current Northern Lights traffic has led to a considerable increase in traffic airport structure will be retained. This means that neither Mosjøen at Tromsø Airport, averaging 3.9 per cent per year in recent years. Airport, Kjærstad Airport, nor Stokka Airport in Sandnessjøen will On the basis of this, preparatory work has commenced to explore be decommissioned. In the NTP for 2018 to 2029, state funding is the options for expanding the terminal. A concept for expansion provided for the second half of the plan period. A financing solution has been chosen and the project is now entering the preliminary is being drafted locally in order to start the project as soon as work phase. The aim is for the expansion to be complete in 2021/22 28 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 29 and for it to provide capacity for 2.7 million passengers. Outline 2017. It concluded that Grøtnes was a suitable location for a new projects have also been started for new aircraft de-icing facilities, airport in Hammerfest. On 25 June 2018, the Norwegian Ministry new aircraft stands, and the extension of the runway. of Transport and Communications commissioned Avinor with conducting a choice of concept study (CCS) for airport solutions Operation of Haugesund Airport made in the Hammerfest region so that the project can be evaluated as subject to competition part of the documentation forming the basis for the next National At Haugesund Airport, the government has decided to hand over all Transport Plan. Two concepts for Grøtnes will be considered in the operations to a party other than Avinor by way of competitive tenCCS – one with a 1,199-metre runway for 50-seater aircraft, and dering, which is known as a service concession model. This means one with a long runway suitable for jets currently used on domestic that Avinor cannot submit a tender but will still own the airport. routes. These new facilities are compared against the impact of On 12 May 2019, Avinor will hand over the operation of Haugesund expanding the current airport to the maximum. Airport to the local operator Lufthavndrift AS. This is the result of a tender process and negotiations that took place between the An increase in offshore operations is expected from Hammerfest parties throughout 2018. over the next few years. In anticipation of a possible new airport, it will be necessary to make some adjustments to the current airport. Harstad/Narvik Airport advanced base Work on an outline project has commenced regarding the expanfor Norwegian Armed Forces sion in capacity for helicopter operations, including the adaptation The Storting has decided to establish an advanced base for the of the terminals. Norwegian Armed Forces’ new F-35 (QRA) military fighter at Harstad/Narvik Airport, and for the base for surveillance aircraft Evaluation of a new airport in Lofoten (MPA) to be moved from Andenes to Harstad/Narvik. QRA will Work is underway to evaluate a possible new shared airport operate from Harstad/Narvik by the autumn of 2021, while new in Lofoten. In the NTP for 2014 to 2023, Avinor proposed the surveillance aircraft will be in operation by the spring of 2022. This construction of a major new airport for Lofoten at Gimsøy to means that the Norwegian Armed Forces must make a number of replace the current local airports in Leknes and Svolvær. An investments at the airport. The future investment and operational expert group considered availability relating to the weather would needs of the Norwegian Armed Forces will have a major impact on be 94 per cent. At the same time, the Norwegian Public Roads civilian operations at the airport. For Avinor, it is important that Administration evaluated the possibility of a ferry-free crossing the activities of the Norwegian Armed Forces do not inhibit the over the Hadsel fjord which, if implemented, would result in huge operation and development of civilian operations. Avinor is working changes to journey times between the region’s airports, and thus closely with the Norwegian Armed Forces on these issues. traffic levels at a major new airport. Avinor will, therefore, consider whether other sites would provide better weather availability, and Harstad/Narvik Airport’s only development area is located in the look at the airport structure in the context of the development of north-eastern section of the airport. This area is currently contamthe road network. Several weather measurements were conducted inated with PFAs. Further planning for the site depends on the in Lofoten in 2018. The aim of the project is now to put forward a proper management of this issue. recommendation for the NTP for 2022 to 2033. The current terminal has a maximum capacity of 1 million Avinor’s activities end at Fagernes Airport passengers and is approaching this limit. Avinor is considering an Operations at Fagernes Airport formally came to an end on 1 expansion of the terminal building. July 2018 as no local operators had come forward to take over. In addition, the Storting decided that Avinor is to maintain the Plans to close Andøya airbase technical and operational status of Fagernes Airport for up to three Andøya airbase is owned and run by the Norwegian Armed Forces years after the closure, so that any takeover and reopening by local and, according to the plans of the Norwegian Armed Forces, is stakeholders is as smooth as possible. scheduled for closure in mid-2022. However, the airport shall continue to operate to facilitate the development of the Andøya Space Center and Andøya Test Center. In addition, the Norwegian NATIONAL OBLIGATIONS Armed Forces have indicated that there is a need for Andøya to serve as a base in the event of an emergency. There are also proposals for The Avinor Group carries out a number of tasks arising from Andøya to serve as a reinforcements base. The above means that the national obligations on behalf of the Norwegian state. These tasks size requirements are greater than those of civil aviation. However, are in addition to Avinor’s corporate social responsibility of owning there may be changes in the requirements of civil aviation through and operating a nationwide network of airports and air navigation the development of Andøya, in particular through the establishment services for civil and military air traffic. They include: of a drone centre, satellite launch facilities, the expansion of Andenes fishing port, and a possible civilian aviation school. ·· tasks directly arising from plans by the Ministry for Transport and Communications for the development of Avinor (ownership It has not yet been decided who will be responsible for Andøya in reports), such as planning, analytical work, research and develthe future. If responsibility for operating Andøya is transferred to opment, air ambulance readiness, facilitating public transport Avinor, this will increase the company’s costs by an estimated NOK for ground access to airports, contributing to the national search 20 to 40 million per year. and rescue (SAR) services, and the operation of the aeronautical mapping and aeronautical information services; Evaluation of a new airport in Hammerfest ·· sector-political tasks of varying nature, such as the National Avinor has conducted studies of both weather conditions and Transport Plan, task related to the interaction with the operational conditions in relation to the establishment of a new Norwegian Armed Forces, etc.; airport in Hammerfest. This work was completed in December 30 AVINOR AS ·· services related to Avinor’s monopoly role, but which competiand local business. Almost 1 million new passengers at our airports tors also depend upon, such as network services and surveillance can be directly linked to the new routes. and radar data, training of air traffic controllers, etc.; and ·· services provided to non-commercial air operators, such as Information on our incentive schemes is published on our website: general aviation. https://avinor.no/aviation/route-development/ incentives/ It is difficult to calculate the exact costs incurred by Avinor for these obligations, but they are estimated to be in the range of NOK ACCESSIBILITY FOR ALL – UNIVERSAL DESIGN 500 to 600 million annually. Avinor currently finances these costs in part through aeronautical charges and in part through commercial Most people need to travel and need to be able to plan and revenues. carry out their journey safely and in a way that suits their needs. Universal design is, therefore, an important premise for Avinor being able to offer air travel in a way that is both predictable and SEPARATE AIR NAVIGATION SERVICES FROM AVINOR AND seamless. Avinor is constantly working to meet universal design SUBJECT CONTROL TOWER SERVICES TO COMPETITION requirements. Emphasis is placed on close co-operation with national and regional user fora, which gives results in the form In an ownership report on Avinor (Meld. St. 30/2016-2017) preof joint solutions. Co-operation takes place by way of centralised sented in April 2017, the government was clear as to its intentions dialogue in the PRM forum, as well as “Flygruppa”, which represents to separate air navigation services from Avinor before the next organisations, airlines, and Avinor. There is similar representation ownership report. Avinor has given its input in the process and the at a local level in major construction projects and by way of other decision is now up to the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and local fora in the form of networking. Communications. Pursuant to the Regulations on the universal design of airports The government also clearly signals the introduction of competiand the rights of disabled people in relation to air transport of 16 tion in relation to control tower and approach control services at July 2013, Avinor has conducted a monitoring process with the Avinor’s airports. Furthermore, the government is paving the way Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority as the supervisory authority. for Avinor Air Navigation Services to be able to compete for control Universal design mapping has demonstrated a need for planned and tower and approach control services internationally. As a result, co-ordinated measures so that all of Avinor’s airports are universally Avinor Flysikring has participated in tenders both in Norway and designed. The measures were initiated in 2018 and are due to coninternationally. tinue so that all of Avinor’s airports are universally designed by 2025. In 2017 the government gave Avinor its support to further develop Avinor standards have been established for terminal and operand include additional airports in the remote tower concept where ational buildings. These standards cater for universal design this will result in greater savings than a competitive tendering. This requirements in construction projects and incorporate the has been followed up, and the project has been further developed universal design requirements of both technical regulations and in 2018. The first remotely operated tower is expected to be put into Standards Norway. operation in the autumn of 2019. The centre for remotely operated towers will be located in Bodø. Similarly the responses from a consultation with the Norwegian Federation of Organisations of Disabled People (FFO), the Norwegian Association of Disabled (NAD), and the Norwegian ROUTE DEVELOPMENT Association of the Blind will be included in ongoing efforts. Through standardised solutions, Avinor wants to help make its airports more Avinor works closely with airlines and other stakeholders to predictable and readable for all travellers. develop the route network at Norway’s airports. Attracting new traffic is important in order to fulfil our corporate social responsiInternal e-learning modules have been produced thanks to grants bility, which includes developing and operating a safe, efficient and from the Norwegian Directorate for Children, Youth and Family sustainable aviation system throughout the country. Affairs. These modules provide a shared learning platform for universal design within the Group. In the aviation industry it is common that airports contribute to reduce the airlines’ risk through various forms of facilitation at Universal design guidelines will be implemented at airports in the airports and financial contributions. The incentive schemes connection with specific measures, new construction, or major have been developed to strengthen the competitiveness of reconstruction projects. There is a growing awareness of how to Norwegian airports and has been an official ESA arrangement facilitate travel for all in a way that caters for everyone’s needs. since 2009. Although the level of universal design continues to vary, with increased focus on measures in the years to come, this variation Avinor’s incentives comprise startup and marketing support for will decrease. For some older terminal buildings built in another era new routes and a bonus for passenger growth. Applications are under other regulations, measures will be implemented to ensure considered individually, with emphasis on the project’s profitability their universal design in accordance with current standards. for Avinor. In the past three years Avinor has contributed an average of NOK 70 million annually to airlines and other stakeholders Terminal design and boarding solutions are key to getting passenthrough the incentive schemes. A considerable proportion has been gers on board aircraft effectively. Terminals face the challenges of allocated to the route development and marketing of destinations new technical solutions, commercial requirements, and the desired outside of the Oslo area. The result is new international direct passenger flows. These challenges will be a focus area for Avinor flights, which are decisive and a precondition for growth in tourism going forwards. While passenger bridges will be adapted at large COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 31 and medium-sized airports, ramps and electric stair climbers will ASQ OVERALL SATISFACTION – AVERAGE 8 LARGEST AIRPORTS work for smaller airports. This will enable everyone to board aircraft in a way that is adapted to them. Score for customer satisfaction on a scale 1-5, where the score 4 has the description very good 4.2 PassengerSupplies from A service that coincides with universal design is Avinor’s assistance strategy passenger-strategy adopted service, which covers passengers with reduced mobility. To provide 4.0 safe and practicable travel, Avinor offers a comprehensive service 3.8 from arrival at the airport right through to getting passengers comfortably on board aircraft. 3.6 3.4 New New Online travel planning and mobile solutions are becoming increasOslo Bergen ingly important also for these kinds of services. 3.2 Airport Airport 07.2012 01.2013 07.2013 01.2014 07.2014 01.2015 07.2015 02.2016 05.2016 08.2016 11.2016 02.2017 05.2017 08.2017 11.2017 02.2018 05.2018 08.2018 11.2018 The ability to provide passengers with information and guidance by way of various technological channels is evolving rapidly, which is increasing the ability of everyone to make their own way. In close Oslo Airport Bergen Airport Weighted average co-operation with user groups, Avinor is in the process of developing digital channels adapted for groups such as the blind and visually impaired. goal in 2018 when it jumped nine places to sit at 22nd place in the last quarter of 2018. ON THE WAY TO BECOMING THE BEST IN EUROPE FOR CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Good hospitality at the airport When creating great travel experiences, the human factor is as One of Avinor’s core values is a focus on the customer, while one of important as having a nice terminal and seamless processes. We its strategic primary objectives is providing a seamless customer have focused on our hospitality at our airports and invited all our experience. In 2018 Avinor took a step closer to becoming the best partners to join us in a joint drive to create great travel experiences. in Europe for customer experience. Experiences from a pilot programme in Oslo and Bergen in 2018 that saw a structured investment in hospitality will form the basis Airport Service Quality (ASQ) for continued hospitality efforts at all our airports. Oslo Airport and Bergen Airport were named “Europe’s best airports” for customer satisfaction by ACI in their respective size categories. With respect to our focus on hospitality, we have commenced freBergen Airport also received an award for “greatest improvement” quent observations of the quality of service provided to customers in customer satisfaction in its category. According to ACI’s World within our airports’ range of shops and food outlets. Our objective is Director General Angela Gittens, these prizes have been awarded to to support our partners who provide hospitality on our behalf. Both the airports that received the best feedback from travellers in 2018. Avinor and its partners receive regular and systematic feedback She stresses that the airports have understood that good customer from these observations, which is followed up by way of training by satisfaction is an important tool in a competitive industry, and that operations managers in sales and service management. We want to ACI’s surveys are the only surveys worldwide that give airports conassist our partners. The initiative has been very well received among crete feedback across multiple categories of customer satisfaction. the managers of our retail and catering partners at our airports who, together with other service staff, are using this new insight This demonstrates that passengers value the two biggest investinto their work to provide customers with a good experience. ments Avinor has made in recent years by way of the terminal expansions at Oslo Airport and Bergen Airport, Flesland. The three awards mentioned above are also testament to the hard work of the employees of all the companies we work with at our Oslo Airport is aiming to be among the top ten airports in Europe airports. for customer satisfaction and was well on the way to achieving this Inge Fidjeland Sølvi Ness Director Airport Fashion, Operations Director, Airport Retail Group AS SSP Norge Having a partner like Avinor, Our efforts to give customers which truly understands the a better experience involves importance of a good customer every level of our organisation experience with regard to retail, and brings us all closer together. is a clear strength for us. In a Initiatives that promote co-opemarket facing increased comperation with Avinor and other tition from e-commerce, good stakeholders along the way customer experiences are becoare instrumental to us offering ming increasingly important. world-class hospitality. 32 AVINOR AS New ways of communicating with customers Safety has the highest priority in Avinor and is linked to the strateIn light of the constant increase in passengers’ use and expectations gic area of safe, efficient and stable operation at our airports. Flight of digital services, Avinor has made a growing number of products safety and risk management are constantly being worked with to and services available via digital channels. A joint passenger app has ensure that Avinor’s services are carried out and delivered at an been developed covering all of Avinor’s airports, as well as a parking acceptable or improved level of flight safety. This helps reduce the booking service and a pre-ordering service for food and drink and likelihood of human, material and critical infrastructure damage, duty free goods. Within passenger communication, we have entered and to reduce the impact should an incident occur. the world of voice control and a new digital customer communication (CRM) platform has been implemented. The 175,000 newsletAn overview of the operational risks is established at all Avinor’s ters that we send each month are read more than those we compare airports in accordance with EU regulations. Proactive and targeted ourselves to, which confirms that our customers are interested in management alongside the overview and control of hazards and information and offers from Avinor. All of Avinor’s digital passenger the risks they pose will contribute to a sustained and improved communications are subject to applicable privacy legislation. level of safety. This overview of risks can be monitored at several levels in the organisation. The framework for managing operational risks is continuously being developed. AVINOR’S SPONSORSHIP A new report (Power BI) that will be used in central safety meetings Avinor’s sponsorships are primarily targeted at local recreational is being developed. The report is focused on flight safety in that it activities, social initiatives, and sport for children and young only extracts non-compliance data within safety categories. It will people in the areas surrounding our airports. Many of our airports be ready to be reported in March 2019. The report will provide a contributed to such sponsorships in 2018. clearer picture of the challenges faced in flight safety and make it easier to follow up on these. At our head office in Oslo, Avinor works with Church City Mission through the Neighbour Co-operation in Bjørvika project. There are As part of the safety work, work is also carried out proactively by also separate activities for children and young people under the means of risk management on our operations. This is supported by auspices of Church City Mission, with which Avinor employees are several new reports (Power BI) for monitoring and presentation of involved. This year’s Christmas present also went to Church City the airports' operational risk picture. Mission’s “Gled en som gruer seg til jul” (Make someone happy who is dreading Christmas) campaign. As part of the safety work, we are proactively pursuing risk management in our operations as part of our flight safety efforts, being Environmental organisations Zero and Bellona receive financial supported by several new reports for monitoring and presenting an support from Avinor and give Avinor professional assistance in, for overview of operational risks at our airports. These reports will be example, efforts relating to the development of biofuel. used in local and central safety and quality meetings with the level of detail in the reports adapted accordingly. PUNCTUALITY AFFECTED BY ADVERSE Revision and improvement of the safety management system, WEATHER CONDITIONS including the management of flight safety, continued in 2018. Average punctuality for all Avinor’s airports was 83.5 per cent in Safety culture within flight safety 2018. Avinor’s Group-wide targets for punctuality (departure within Initiatives to ensure a safety culture within our flight safety units 15 minutes of scheduled departure) is 88 per cent. Achieving this were implemented in the autumn of 2017 and spring of 2018, along target depends on the concerted efforts of the airports, airlines, and with a safety culture survey in 2018. Work are ongoing to identify providers of airport-related services. The weather also plays a role. and follow up on measures based on the answers. Reduced punctuality in 2018 was primarily due to major traffic-related challenges in Southern Europe, as well as internal challenges By developing skills and building awareness within the air traffic among some key operators within Avinor’s network. control’s en-route navigation services, there has been special emphasis on the risk of aircraft spacing and separation minima. A For regularity – which measures the percentage of scheduled flights Group-wide initiative involving other aviation stakeholders to avoid that operate – Avinor has a target of 98 per cent. In 2018, the rate of runway incursions has also gotten underway. regularity for all the airports was 98 per cent. This figure has hardly changed in recent years. Airline data regarding cancellations and Runway incursion project diversions provided through the traffic information system ALTi Worldwide, runway incursions (RIs) are responsible for less than serves as the basis for Avinor’s official statistics. one per cent of the fatal accidents. Roughly 100 RIs or events leading up to such an incident are reported each year in Norway. This level has remained stable for many years and is on a par with FLIGHT SAFETY the European average. Runway incursions are one of the biggest risk factors in the operation of an airport. European aviation stakeholdThe regulatory requirements in flight safety follow from Norway’s interers have joined forced to establish a European Action Plan for the national obligations through the EEA and ICAO (the UN’s International Prevention of Runway Incursions – EAPRI. Avinor wants to play an Civil Aviation Organisation). The Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority active role in these efforts and has recently initiated a project that is (N-CAA) implements provisions that Avinor is required to comply with, based on the lessons learnt from incidents in Norway and the recbased on these obligations. Avinor plays an active role in international ommendations given through EAPRI. The project will be conducted work, such as in the development of new aviation-related regulations in in close co-operation with the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority, Europe and in particular airport regulations. airlines, the Norwegian Association of Air Sports, and other relevant COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 33 stakeholders. The goal is to reduce the number of serious RIs by half Audit programmes are in place for one year at a time and are by the end of 2020. approved by the CEO. Findings discovered through the audits are entered as non-compliance in the non-compliance management New provider for air traffic controller training system and are followed up by the entity who is defined as risk owner. Avinor Air Navigation Services has awarded a three-year contract to a new provider of air traffic controller training. The new provider is Findings recorded at external parties are followed up by the CANI – Czech Air Navigation Institute – located in Prague. Fifteen contract manager or named contact through Avinor’s non-comstudents started their basic training at CANI in September 2018. pliance management system. All of Avinor’s airports are now certified in accordance with ISO 14001 (environmental certification requirements). The final external certification audits took place in ACCIDENTS AND SERIOUS AVIATION INCIDENTS November 2018. There were no aviation accidents with or without personal injury or Twenty-six internal audits were conducted by Avinor AS in serious aviation incidents in Norwegian aviation to which Avinor 2018 either as systems audits of process areas (top-down) or as or Avinor Air Navigation Services was a contributing party in 2018. airport-level audits. The reporting rate has been very good and the degree of severity in aviation incidents has been lower. CONTRACTED ACTIVITIES ACCIDENTS AND SERIOUS AVIATION INCIDENTS 2016-2018 In addition, contractors are regularly audited to ensure the proper quality of their deliveries in relation to the applicable agreement/ AVIATION ACCIDENTS AVIATION ACCIDENTS contract. Audit frequency is governed by the criticality of the delivSERIOUS NOT INVOLVING INVOLVING AVIATION INCIDENTS PERSONAL INJURY PERSONAL INJURY eries. Contractors providing services that Avinor is certified for are closely monitored by way of audits. This ensures that these services 2018 0 0 0 are provided within the framework of Avinor’s certificates. 2017 3 0 0 2016 0 1 0 Avinor conducted 25 audits of external parties in 2018. Fifteen of these were according to a specific agreement/contract, ten were Serious aviation incidents, aviation accidents not involving personal injury, and audits of external airport stakeholders in accordance with (HSE) aviation accidents involving personal injury where Avinor was a contributing party. co-ordination agreements or traffic regulation requirements. The terms “serious aviation incident” and “aviation accident” follow the definitions in Regulation (EU) No. 996/2010. In addition, so-called “prior audits” are conducted for some new contractors before an agreement is concluded to ensure that DRONES there are no instances of serious non-compliance or defects at the delivery. Avinor conducted two prior audits in 2018. There is a huge increase in drone activity. Avinor is studying how we can support the development of the drone industry and how drone The increased use of contractors and outsourcing of services technology can help to streamline our own processes. demand high standards for Avinor’s compliance-monitoring system. Consequently, Avinor is working to improve the process, develop Avinor observes and reports illegal drone activity and participates methods, and educate and maintain resources to ensure that these in national and European work to put in place regulations that deliveries are always provided within the scope of the laws and ensure the safe use of drones. Efforts are underway at several requirements that Avinor is obliged to comply with. airports to identify the hazards and risks associated with drone activity, with the aim of developing appropriate measures to preThe findings of the audits are recorded as non-compliance in our vent illegal drone activity. The experiences of other Norwegian and non-compliance management system. These are followed up by the international airports are also being drawn upon. In the summer of defined risk owner. Findings recorded at external parties are followed 2018, a drone pilot was convicted in connection with unauthorised up by the contract manager or Avinor’s named contact. Avinor’s flying in restricted airspace at Oslo Airport. The incident closed the non-compliance management system manages these as well. airspace for a period of time. SECURITY AUDITS Threat levels are the same as in previous years. Readily available Avinor as an organization works systematically to maintain a good weapons and vehicles are considered to pose a particularly chalsafety culture and a high level of flight safety. As one of several lenging threat. Avinor has previously conducted analyses to identify instruments, regular audits is carried out both at the units and at security-related vulnerabilities at all its airports and, in 2018, implespecific subject areas to verify that relevant laws and regulations mented tailored security measures. This work will continue in the are complied with. years to come. The objective is for security measures to both reduce the impact of any incidents and to make such incidents more Avinor’s audit programme incorporates the requirements of the difficult to carry out. The management system has been updated Norwegian Aviation Act, EU/2008/2016, the Norwegian Work by incorporating security risk analyses into all renovation and new Environment Act, the Norwegian Security Act, and the regulations construction projects. A grade-based system has been implemented associated with these. This is in addition to relevant ISO standards, as to manage risk analyses and the follow-up of objects to be screened. well as regulations and standards within the external environment. As part of delivering cost-effective services that provide a good level 34 AVINOR AS of security at low cost while providing a good experience, Avinor played an active role in the planning of the exercise by way of a new implemented in 2018 the first phase of a project to update the concept for host country support and concluded a binding liaison security control equipment for checked baggage. It is anticipated agreement with the operational headquarters of the Norwegian that the project will result in a reduction in the use of personnel Armed Forces. for this type of security control. Impact analysis have been carried out for Avinor ahead of the new Norwegian National Security Act. The field exercise involved more than 50,000 troops and several Staff from Avinor have participated in the working group under the hundred ships and aircraft. A number of Avinor’s airports were Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications. The mantasked with hosting fighter jets, helicopters, and large aircraft for agement system has been updated in relation to new requirements. transport and transporting of crews and equipment. This traffic was managed very efficiently without any major disruption to Civil protection and contingency civil aviation and very few serious incidents in relation to traffic Avinor has concluded the introduction of CIM as a crisis manvolumes. Avinor Air Navigation Services went to great lengths to agement tool and has carried out exercises in order to maintain prepare the airspace, to provide training, and in the execution of the competence. In addition, Avinor has established low-grade exercise. communication at several units, as planned. Avinor has received very positive feedback from the Norwegian Avinor’s participation in general defence and the Trident Juncture Armed Forces and NATO on our involvement and provision of exercise in 2018 services throughout the exercise. In light of the current security policy situation, there is a signifiIn the staff exercise that followed, Avinor mobilised its internal cantly heightened focus on emergency preparedness and defence emergency organisation at all levels. The exercise provided valuable throughout the Western world. The government has initiated the training and experiences that will aid the further improvement of development of Norway’s general defence and Avinor is contributAvinor’s ability to manage major emergency situations. ing actively in this and work together with the Norwegian Armed Forces, the Norwegian Directorate for Civil Protection (DSB), Human trafficking and several other civilian stakeholders. In recent decades, the Avinor has no proprietary systems for reporting human trafficking. Norwegian Armed Forces have focused their activities on military Such incidents are recorded in a crime case management system operations, for which the provision of services from a number of and are processed by the relevant authorities, such as the police civilian stakeholders is essential for ensuring the effective defence and customs. These are in place at Avinor’s largest airports, and of Norway. The NATO exercise Trident Juncture took place in the airports are reporting good co-operation. Avinor encourages all Norway in the autumn of 2018. This was a two-part exercise with a employees to report situations which are unclear and in which they full-scale field exercise (LIVEX), followed by a staff exercise (CPX), suspect that human trafficking is taking place. both of which were led from NATO’s headquarters in Naples. Avinor The new Remote Tower Centre in Bodø will be the world’s largest when it opens in 2020. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 35 Fagernes Airport hosted the first look at Norway’s first autonomous snowplough in March 2018, which will commence testing at Oslo Airport in the winter of 2019. Projects, research, and development will help to develop solutions that provide Bodø with the mobility Work relating to remote towers continued at full speed in 2018. solutions of the future. The project is funded by the Norwegian Avinor Air Navigation Services bought land for the new Remote Ministry of Transport and Communications. In the Digital Airports Tower Centre, which is due to be completed in early 2020. Together project funded by the Norwegian Research Council’s Transport 2025 with the Kongsberg Group and Indra, Avinor Air Navigation programme, Kristiania University College and its partners will study Services is proceeding with efforts to control 15 towers remotely the effect of digital technology on flight passengers’ travel experifrom Bodø by the end of 2020. ences and on the effectiveness of Norway’s airport network. The centre will employ around 60 people and help to ensure better The exploration and development of innovative projects will knowledge sharing and redundancy by centralising the academic continue at the airports. Projects such as remotely controlled pascommunity at the new centre in Bodø. senger assistance or robot guides will help to improve information services for our passengers. Autonomous snowploughs and several Røst will be the first airport in Norway to be operated with a digitalisation projects relating to operation and maintenance are remotely controlled tower. This is scheduled to commence in the aimed at reducing the costs associated with Norway’s airport autumn of 2019. network. Oslo Airport’s OSL2020 project is about simplifying and streamlining operations. The first deliveries are due in February Avinor AS actively participates in SESAR 2020 – a major EU research 2019. The primary focus of the first phase is on maintenance and development programme for aviation – in which stakeholders processes, standards, and digitalisation. Another measure is smart in the sector and the research and development environment are cleaning, which includes robotic cleaning. joining forces to develop and certify technology as one of the pillars of the Single European Sky programme. Avinor’s expertise is helping Avinor is participating in several research and development projects to increase security, capacity, and predictability, as well as to reduce relating to the development of sustainable biofuels for aviation, the environmental footprint of Europe’s aviation network. in collaboration with such institutions as SINTEF, BI Norwegian Business School, and the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. Avinor is collaborating with other stakeholders in several research and development projects focusing on benefitting society. “Smarter Avinor also participates in Klima 2050, a research centre focusing Transport Bodø” is a collaborative project with Nordland County on extreme weather and gradual climate change, as well as the Council, Bodø Municipality, and Telenor, in which the stakeholders climatic adaptation of buildings and infrastructure. 36 AVINOR AS Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate and environmental challenges within aviation Avinor has concrete and long-term goals to address the four biggest environmental challenges of operating airports: climate, energy, noise, and emissions into water and ground. Effective and systematic environmental management is needed to greenhouse gas emissions generated by passengers getting to and manage these challenges. Consequently, environmental managefrom the airport), and greenhouse gas emissions related to the ment efforts have seen a boost in recent years. This has resulted in running of the airports. the certification of Avinor’s centralised environmental management and operations in accordance with the ISO 14001:2015 standard. Greenhouse gas emissions from airport operations From the beginning of 2019, all of Avinor’s airports will be covered Avinor measure the GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG by a joint Avinor certificate. Protocol. The emissions inventory is assured in accordance with ISO 14064 by an independent third party. Avinor offsets all direct emissions and indirect emissions over which it has control, using GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS internationally recognised offsets. In 2018, Avinor’s own verifiable greenhouse gas emissions from airport operations totalled approxAvinor’s Group-wide climate targets: By 2022, Avinor must imately 15,780 tonnes of CO2 equivalents, which roughly the same halve its total controllable greenhouse gas emissions as as in 2012. Avinor’s biggest source of emissions is the consumption compared with 2012 and help to reduce emissions from of fuel for its own vehicles, followed by energy consumption and surface access to the airports and air traffic. business travel. Svalbard Airport stands out in particular in Avinor’s climate accounts since the airport’s heating and electricity are both The biggest source of greenhouse gas emissions at airports is provided by a coal-fired power plant. Since 2016, there has been a aircraft landing and taking off, followed by surface access (i.e. gradual expansion of the solar panel array at Svalbard Airport. In COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 37 2019, it is anticipated that solar energy will cater for five per cent of the airport’s electricity consumption. Other sources of Avinor’s AVINOR'S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS RELATED TO AIRPORT own controllable emissions (as shown in the figure below) include OPERATIONS FOR EACH EMISSIONS SOURCE the discharge of chemicals for runway de-icing and firefighting Tonnes of CO2 equivalents exercises. Vehicles Svalbard (electricity Avinor’s climate goal is an absolute goal that does not take into and district heating) account size increases in the ploughed areas of our airports. Business travel Emissions from Avinor’s operations depend heavily on the weather Runway de-icing in the winter due to the need for snow ploughing, heating, and the Thermal energy use of de-icing chemicals. The use of runway de-icing chemicals is included in Avinor’s climate accounts because the chemicals are District heating made from fossil carbon sources and therefore greenhouse gas Firefighting exercises emissions are calculated based on their degradation. 0 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 7 000 8 000 An important measure in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from Avinor’s own operations is the introduction of advanced biodiesel, since around half of Avinor’s greenhouse gas emissions come from Avinor’s greenhouse gas emissions related to airport operations according to different emission sources. The consumption of biodiesel and bio heating oil its fleet of vehicles. Advanced biodiesel is used in vehicles that in 2018 is not countable and consequently not shown in this figure. cannot be easily electrified, such as snow blowers and sweepers. The biodiesel used by Avinor does not contain palm oil or palm oil products and conforms to EU sustainability criteria. Consequently, Efforts to increase the number of charging points at Avinor’s we do not count emissions from the biodiesel or bio heating oil we carparks continued in 2018 and will continue in 2019 after a project use, which means these are not included in the figure on emissions was initiated to provide almost 800 new charging points at Avinor’s reductions shown above. The phasing in of about 320,000 litres of airports. At Bergen Airport, Flesland, a rapid charging station was advanced biodiesel for vehicles and 67,000 litres of bio heating oil installed in 2018, which can be used by Avinor and its partners. has resulted in greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 being roughly the same as in 2012. Had these measures not been implemented, we Climate change has resulted in the increased use of runway de-icing would have seen an increase in greenhouse gas emissions of about chemicals in recent years. In the years to come, it will be important 7-8 per cent in 2018 compared to 2012. to consider opportunities for obtaining runway de-icing chemicals produced from fossil-free carbon sources. This is not a product that Advanced biodiesel was used at Oslo, Trondheim, Bergen, Ålesund, is currently available on the market. Molde, and Kristiansand airports in 2018. Bergen Airport, Flesland, installed its own 30 m3 tank for biodiesel in 2018, which opened in Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) is an industry organisation that September. All partners at the airport can use the tank facility. airport operators can accredit themselves within, managed by the industry organisation ACI (Airport Council International), which At Trondheim Airport, Værnes, the drop in ratio of advanced Avinor is a member of. Airports participating in the scheme must biodiesel was around 28 per cent, and at Oslo Airport around 20 per set binding targets for emission reductions, prepare detailed climate cent. The objective for 2019 is to phase in biodiesel at one additional accounts, and adopt action plans. In 2018, more than 250 airports airport as well as increase consumption volumes at all seven worldwide were part of the scheme. This means that around 44 per airports that use biodiesel. When procuring vehicles in Avinor, an assessment must always be made as to whether a vehicle powered by fossil fuel can be replaced with an electric vehicle. In 2018, Avinor purchased 36 new administrative vehicles, both large and small, of which 11 were electric and 12 were hybrids. The reason for the purchase of 13 fossil-fuel vehicles was the lack of larger electric vehicles with both four-wheel drive and towbars. To further reduce Avinor’s greenhouse gas emissions, it is necessary to switch to renewable energy where possible and to ramp up the introduction of bio heating oil at individual airports. Oslo Airport successfully tested advanced biodiesel as a heating medium at its own heating plant in 2018. As advanced biodiesel is more resistant to cold than bio heating oil, it can be used in uninsulated facilities. Other measures that are essential for reducing energy consumption The biodiesel tank and new charging station for electric vehicles opened at at Avinor’s airports are discussed in the section on energy. Bergen Airport, Flesland, in September 2018. 38 AVINOR AS cent of global passenger traffic passes through ACA-accredited airAt Bergen Airport, Flesland, we moved one step closer to a ports. Within Avinor, Oslo Airport, Trondheim Airport, Værnes, and zero-emission taxi industry in 2018 when an agreement was Kristiansand Airport have been accredited in the scheme since its reached between the county council, Avinor, and the energy and inception in 2009. Both Stavanger Airport, Sola, and Bergen Airport, infrastructure company BKK. The agreement deals with the introFlesland, have participated in the scheme since 2014. duction of rapid chargers at the taxi rank, with 18 charging points of varying capacities. The facility is being designed by BKK and is scheduled for completion in the second quarter of 2019. SURFACE ACCESS Rapid chargers have also been installed at Stavanger Airport, Sola. In order to boost the range of services to passengers, reduce greenThese are located at the taxi rank (close to the terminal), but are house gas emissions, and improve local air quality, Avinor wants available for anyone to use. The provision of three charging points to be a driving force behind enabling as many journeys as possible at Oslo Airport’s taxi rank was approved in 2017 and these were to and from the airports to be made by public transport. The installed in 2018. challenges relating to ground transport have to do with both the transport network and the modes of transport. Settlement patterns Oslo Airport, Bergen Airport, Flesland, and Trondheim Airport, in the airports’ catchment areas also mean that it is not possible Værnes, have seen a positive development in the use of public to offer a full range of public transport to everyone. Nevertheless, transport as a means of ground transport since 2009. Depending on a generally high proportion of journeys made to and from Avinor’s how the situation develops, Avinor will set its sights higher heading airports are made by public transport. For example, Oslo airport has towards 2030. The target for Oslo Airport has already been set at 75 the highest such proportion in Europe. The proportion of such jourper cent by 2030. The Bergen light railway started serving Bergen neys has increased in recent years, and the goal is further growth. Airport, Flesland, in April 2017 and has reduced the number of people using private cars there. The increase in the proportion of public transport in ground transport is affected by factors like the passenger composition of air traffic. The most important distinction is between those who live in PROPORTION OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT AT the airport’s catchment area and who have access to their own car, NORWAY’S FOUR LARGEST AIRPORTS and inbound passengers who do not have access to their own car. Consequently, when the number of inbound passengers increases, SHARE OF PUBLIC TRANSPORT the proportion of journeys made by public transport increases as AIRPORT 2009 2017 2018 TAGET 2020 TAXI 2018 a result. The proportion of cars increases if locally generated traffic increases more quickly. Oslo 64 70 71 70 4 Stavanger 14 21 22 30 21 For Oslo airport, the high proportion of public transport has a Bergen 27 43 46 50 14 positive impact on domestic traffic. A greater proportion of international traffic is outbound, hence the higher proportion of car use. Trondheim 42 49 45 50 11 Since 2013, the increased proportion of foreigners in international Source: Air passenger surveys (RVU) traffic has resulted in an increase in the use public transport, which is the preferred means of transport for this passenger group. One group that poses a particular challenge is those who are driven GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM AIR TRAFFIC to or picked up at the airport using a private car. Avinor is working to provide incentives to get these people to use public transport. A vehiSince 2007, Avinor has co-operated with airlines and the Federation cle registration recognition solution was introduced at all airports in of Norwegian Aviation Industries (NHO Luftfart) to facilitate 2018. Vehicles that stay more than the allotted free time will have to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic. Three pay a fee. This may help to encourage car users to switch to public reports 1) have been published outlining emission-reducing transport when being picked up or dropped off at our airports. measures and comparing the effect of these with expected traffic development. According to projections, greenhouse gas emissions Most measures for increasing the use of public transport fall outside from domestic aviation – taking into account expected energy of Avinor’s areas of responsibility and require co-operation with a efficiencies – will be roughly the same in 2030 as in 2016, despite number of other stakeholders. Avinor’s most important contribution significant traffic growth. Emissions for international aviation may is to provide infrastructure at its airports and information about increase as a result of the significant increase in traffic if sustainable services to passengers. At Bergen Airport, Flesland, bus service biofuels, and subsequently electric and hybrid-electric aircraft, are information is now displayed on digital displays. Oslo Airport will not introduced. continue its efforts from 2018 to provide better information regarding bus transport. At the Group level, active efforts are underway The most important emission-reducing measures for aviation are with Norway’s largest airport bus operators, which have stations related to fleet renewal, airspace efficiency improvements, sustainable at Norway’s four largest airports. The aim of this co-operation is to biofuel, and the introduction of electric and hybrid-electric aircraft. identify strategies for increasing market share for bus companies at the expense of private cars. In its co-operation with airport bus According to Statistics Norway, greenhouse gas emissions from all operators, Avinor has developed specific measures to increase domestic civil aviation in 2017 (most recent official figures) cormarket share for bus operators. These efforts will continue in the responded to 2.1 per cent of total domestic emissions (1.1 million years to come. Avinor would like to use this knowledge to facilitate tonnes out of a total of 52.7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents). It the increased investment in public transport at smaller airports. is these emissions which are covered by the Kyoto Protocol and 1) Available at avinor.no. The latest report is Sustainable and socially beneficial aviation – Report 3. August 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 39 40 AVINOR AS Avinor can exercise considerable influence. Free Route Airspace GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS FROM NORWEGIAN AVIATION was implemented in 2016, and improved navigation technology 1990-2017 facilitates more accurate and flexible approach and departure 1 000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents procedures. The advantage of these approach procedures is that 3 500 flights can pass around densely populated areas close to the 3 000 airport, reducing noise for the airport’s neighbours. In addition, 2 500 aircraft can fly shorter routes, thus reducing their fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. As at 31 December 2018, Oslo 2 000 Airport had conducted approximately 25,000 flights since the new 1 500 procedures were introduced. A calculated average fuel saving of 1 000 75 kilos per approach results 6000 tons of CO2. There are plans for 500 Trondheim, Stavanger, and Bergen to announce similar procedures 0 in December 2019. 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2017 Domestic emissions International emissions Total emissions Jet biofuel Biofuel was certified for use in civil aviation in 2009. Since then, several thousand scheduled civilian flights have been carried out using blended biofuels, and the development of various technolowhich are reported in Statistics Norway’s statistics on greenhouse gies for the production of biofuels has picked up pace. According to gas emissions from Norwegian territory. This principle is used in all both the industry and the International Civil Aviation Organization, countries. the introduction of biofuels for aviation is considered to be a very important measure in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from Greenhouse gas emissions from international traffic (i.e. from aviation. Norwegian airports to the first overseas destination) equated to 1.67 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents in 2017. These emissions The first flights using blended jet biofuel in Norway were conducted are reported annually by the Norwegian Environment Agency to by SAS and Norwegian in November 2014. In January 2016, Oslo the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Airport – in collaboration with AirBP, Neste, SkyNRG, Lufthansa (UNFCCC). 2) Group, KLM, and SAS – became the first international airport in the world to supply biofuel for all airlines refuelling there. 1.25 Total greenhouse gas emissions from all jet fuel for civil purposes million litres of sustainable jet biofuel were used in Norway in 2016. sold at Norwegian airports in 2017 (most recent official figures) This corresponded to 0.1 per cent of all jet fuel sold in Norway. This equates to just over 5 per cent of Norway’s total emissions, in the scheme was expanded in August 2017 to include Bergen Airport, order of 2.8 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. Emissions from Flesland. There was very limited availability of jet biofuel in the domestic traffic were roughly the same as in 2016, while there was market in 2017, resulting in the mixture of only 125,000 litres of an increase in emissions from international traffic. Overall, there jet biofuel during the year. In 2018, a very limited volume was was a slight increase in emissions. also dropped in at Oslo Airport and Bergen Airport, Flesland. The biofuels sold to airlines in Norway are produced without palm oil or According to IATA 3), total CO2 emissions from global aviation palm oil products. amounted to 859 million tonnes, or about 2 per cent of total global CO2 emissions (36 billion tonnes) in 2017. Avinor has set aside up to NOK 100 million for a ten-year period (2013-2022) for measures and projects contributing to the In addition, the fact that some of the emissions occur at high introduction of jet biofuel in Norwegian aviation. Together with altitudes increases their climatic impact. CICERO estimates an airlines and the Federation of Norwegian Aviation Industries (NHO additional factor of between 0.8 and 2.5, with a model average of 1.8. Luftfart), Avinor has explored the potential for establishing the Only a limited amount of domestic traffic in Norway occurs at these large-scale production of biofuels for aviation using biomass from altitudes 4). the Norwegian forestry industry. The conclusion is that this can be realised between 2020 and 2025. Jet biofuel can also be imported New energy-efficient aircraft from abroad. Avinor has worked with a number of stakeholders on Airlines are continuing their energy efficiency and fleet renewal the production of jet biofuel for aviation in Norway. In addition, efforts. SAS’s and Norwegian’s fleet renewal is ongoing, and both Avinor supports several research projects related to this, including operate only the latest generation aircraft. More energy-efficient in collaboration with SINTEF, BI Norwegian Business School, and engines, improved aerodynamics, lower weight, and more seats the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. mean that the new Boeing 737 aircraft use around 30 per cent less fuel and have lower greenhouse gas emissions per seat-kilometre In connection with the presentation of Norway’s state budget for than previous generation aircraft. The introduction of the Airbus 2019, the government decided that a sales requirement of 0.5 per A320 NEO and Boeing 737 Max began in 2016. Both provide a cent of advanced biofuels for aviation would be introduced from further reduction of around 15 per cent per seat-kilometre. 2020. This requirement means that biofuels from problematic raw materials such as palm oil must not be used in aviation. This Airspace efficiency improvements requirement will be incorporated into product regulations. The Airspace efficiency improvements coupled with the optimisation government’s goal is for 30 per cent of aviation fuels to be sustainaof landings and take-offs are important measures through which ble with a low climate impact by 2030. 2) Note that Statistics Norway has adopted a new model for calculating greenhouse gas emissions from aviation, and that the figures stated differ somewhat from previous years. 3) Source: IATA ( https://www.iata.org/publications/economics/Reports/Industry-Econ-Performance/IATA-Economic-Performance-of-the-Industry-end-year-2018-report.pdf) 4) Lund, Marianne T, Borgar Aamaas, Terje Berntsen and Jan S. Fuglestvedt (2016): “Luftfart og klima – En oppdatert oversikt over status for forskning på klimaeffekter av utslipp fra fly” [Aviation and the Climate: an updated overview of the status of research into the climate effects of aircraft emissions], CICERO Report 2016:5. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 41 Supplying jet biofuel at Bergen Airport, Flesland. The large-scale Norwegian production of biofuel for aviation and international agreements, a CO2 t cannot be imposed on internaheavy road transport may be crucial in achieving Norwegian clitional traffic. mate targets, but this depends on long-term, predictable conditions that do not reduce the competitiveness of Norwegian aviation. Since 2012, civil aviation has been part of the EU’s emission trading system, in line with the energy and industry sectors. Around 75 Electrification of aviation per cent of flights within and from Norway are covered by EU ETS. One of the likely measures for reducing greenhouse gas emissions The EU’s goal is that emissions in sectors subject to offsets be 43 will be the electrification of every aspect of aviation, including per cent lower in 2030 than in 2005. Airlines must apply for and are the operation of infrastructure such as buildings and facilities, allocated a certain number of free quotas based on their production motorised transportation at airports, and air traffic itself. in 2010. They must then either reduce their emissions or buy quotas for excess emissions. The quota price has varied between NOK 235 Norway is in a unique position to utilise electric aircraft, thanks to per tonne of CO2 in July 2008 and NOK 21 per tonne of CO2 in April its established short haul market using small aircraft, considerable 2013. As of 1 March 2019, the quota price was roughly NOK 215 per experience and great interest in transport electrification, and tonne. The EU is expected to reduce the scope of available allowalmost 100 per cent renewable electricity. Based on the informaances in the lead up to 2030 to ensure that targets are achieved. tion Avinor has obtained from aircraft manufacturers, a realistic This will increase quota prices and, in the longer term, result in expectation is that the first electric or hybrid-electric aircraft higher costs for Norwegian aviation. will enter domestic passenger service in Norway by around 2025. Avinor has commenced work to map current and future capacity A passenger duty was introduced for all departures from Norwegian with a view to charging electric aircraft at the company’s airports. airports on 1 June 2016. In 2018, this was NOK 83 per passenger. The Together with the Norwegian Civil Aviation Authority, Avinor has government has decided making this NOK 200 for journeys outside been tasked by the government to develop a programme that paves Europe and NOK 75 for journeys within Europe from 1 April 2019. the way for the introduction of electric aircraft in commercial aviation. Avinor’s involvement in the electrification of aviation has The UN’s International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) has set attracted considerable attention nationally and internationally, and a target of carbon-neutral growth in international aviation from several aircraft manufacturers are looking to Norway as a viable 2020. At the ICAO general meeting in October 2016, it was agreed first market for electrified passenger aircraft, which are expected to to introduce a quota system for greenhouse gas emissions from be small and have a limited range. international aviation, which, along with other measures, will help to reach the target. The first six-year phase of the mechanism CO2 tax and emissions trading through to 2021 will be voluntary for the states. So far, 78 states, Norway is one of the few countries in the world to impose a CO2 tax including Norway, have voluntarily participated in this phase. Air on domestic aviation. In 2018, this amounted to NOK 1.28 per litre traffic between these states accounts for around 75 per cent of of jet fuel, or around NOK 500 per tonne of CO2. In accordance with international air traffic. 42 AVINOR AS CLIMATE ADAPTATION NUMBER OF AIRPORTS WITH OPERATIONAL BREACH OF CONDITIONS FOR AIRCRAFT AND RUNWAY DE-ICING In Norway, it is expected that climate change will result in a warmer, more volatile, and wetter climate with wide regional and Number of airports local variations. The inability to make adaptations to infrastructure 15 may result in major physical and economic consequences. 12 Since 2001, Avinor – together with the Norwegian Public Roads 9 Administration, the Norwegian Coastal Administration, and the Norwegian Railway Directorate – has assessed the impact of 6 climate change on its own operations through its efforts relating 3 to the National Transport Plan. Avinor’s climate adaptation efforts also extend to co-operation with ICAO, Airport Council 0 International (ACI), and the directorate group for climate adap2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 tation under the auspices of the Norwegian Environment Agency. De-icing aircraft De-icing runway Avinor has also conducted its own risk and vulnerability analyses, which is likely to be updated in 2019 and 2020. Avinor is involved in Klima2050, a centre for research-based The 2017/18 winter season was very challenging at many airports. innovation run by SINTEF, and is contributing with pilot projects In 2018, more de-icing chemicals were used than permitted at 11 of in, for example, the improved filtration of run-off from runways and Avinor’s 43 operational airports. Whenever limits are exceeded, the the improved maintenance of existing buildings, including climate pollution authorities are informed of the situation. New discharge adaptation. Through the establishment of standards for buildings in permits have already been applied for at some non-compliant Avinor, new building and infrastructure projects will have a greater airports. emphasis on climate adaptation. In addition, there are efforts to incorporate the results of the risk analysis from 2014 into the Oslo Airport is one airport that exceeded its discharge permit for airports’ master plans where appropriate. de-icing chemicals in 2018. The discharge permit is recipient-based. There is no usage limit, provided that this does not result in an unacceptable impact on recipients around the airport. In the winter WATER AND GROUND of 2017/18, two discharge permit breaches occurred in relation to a watercourse by the airport. In 2018, there were a total of seven Avinor’s environmental target for the water and ground discharge permit breaches in relation to groundwater. Efforts for the period 2016 to 2020 is that no new ground are underway to assess the long-term effects on the ground and contamination or worsening of water quality may occur at groundwater as a result of de-icing chemicals spread along the any of its airports. runways and taxiways. Oxygen supply has limited the breakdown of the chemicals in the most critical areas. In light of this, 65 wells Airport operations involve the use of various chemicals that may have been bored to supply the ground and groundwater with air. result in discharge. Avinor’s corporate social responsibility includes The project was launched in 2016 and has had a positive effect on constantly seeking to reduce chemical use and emissions, sourcing the breakdown of the chemicals. the most environmentally appropriate alternatives, and monitoring emissions and the impact of airport operations on the surrounding In 2018, Avinor received new discharge permits for Stavanger, Røst, environment. De-icing chemicals are used to keep levels of ice and Mosjøen, Bodø, and Tromsø airports, while new discharge permits snow on aircraft and runways within mandatory safety limits. The were applied for at Harstad/Narvik, Vadsø, Namsos, Rørvik, and emission of such chemicals may be detrimental if the tolerance Røros airports. levels of the water and ground, and their natural decomposition capacity, are exceeded. A contamination situation or deterioration Aircraft de-icing at Tromsø Airport presents a constant challenging of water quality may then occur. The use of chemicals also has an in terms of run-off, and so there are plans to upgrade the airport’s impact on costs, which is why Avinor is working actively to reduce de-icing platforms and to extend the discharge pipes to the sea. the use and emissions of chemicals. An outline project is in its final phase and an action plan for a new solution will be presented in 2019 according to the requirements of All of Avinor’s airports have their own discharge permits, pursuant Troms’s County Governor. to the Norwegian Pollution Control Act. These are based on assessments of natural tolerance levels for each airport up to the required A lot of terrain work was conducted at several of Avinor’s airports in level of chemical use in order to operate the airport properly. The 2018. There is considerable emphasis on potential ground contamdischarge permits regulate things like the amount of de-icing ination, and a number of samples have been taken to determine chemicals and chemicals for firefighting exercises that can be used, the correct processing methods for excavated earth. The focus on and how much may be discharged. Its purpose is to safeguard water ground contamination is also incorporated into the development quality in the recipients and the natural ecological, biological, and of a master plan for each airport, as contaminants can result in the chemical conditions. bonding of certain areas. Liability related to old and new contamination is also being addressed in the preparation of new lease In recent winters, Avinor’s use of de-icing chemicals for both aircontracts. Contaminated ground is also an issue when an airport craft and runways has generally increased, due to more challenging closes, as the discharge permits dictate that the airports must weather conditions. Increased traffic and changed routes may also return the area to an environmentally satisfactory condition. require an increased use of chemicals. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 43 PFAS The Norwegian Environment Agency approved Avinor’s application to defer the commissioning of a treatment plant for water Until 2012, Avinor used various types of perand polyfluoroalkyl contaminated with PFOS at Harstad/Narvik Airport, as it proved substances (PFAS) in fire-extinguishing foam in its firefighting impossible to commission a treatment plant within the deadline exercise areas. The most common compound, PFOS, was phased set by the Norwegian Environment Agency in 2017. In the autumn out in 2001. Since it has been documented that several PFAS of 2018, Avinor decided to apply for a permit from the Norwegian compounds are toxic and heavily biodegradable, Avinor has Environment Agency to excavate and dispose of material contamiswitched to fluorine-free fire-extinguishing foam. However, several nated with PFOS from the current firefighting exercise area instead years of using fluorinated fire-extinguishing foam has led to ground of commissioning a treatment plant. The two key reasons for this is contamination in several of Avinor’s active and decommissioned that waste processing sites now exist that hold permits to accept firefighting exercise areas, as well as in other areas used for material contaminated with PFOS, and that the new estimated exercises in the past. This contamination means that some types cost of treating the water was much higher than estimated in the of PFAS are still leaking out into the natural environments around action plan from 2015. Avinor’s application was submitted to the the airports. Avinor has been working on this issue for several years Norwegian Environment Agency along with a new action plan in (see the figure below) and is keen to take responsibility for the early 2019. Avinor has good dialogue with the public authorities contamination caused by airport operations, although this must be regarding the PFOS issue. proportionate from a socio-economic cost/benefit perspective. In 2018, the designing of remedial measures at Fagernes Airport The framework conditions for the human intake of PFOS were commenced. The reason for this is that PFAS continue to leach out amended in December 2018 following the assessments of the from the airport’s decommissioned firefighting exercise area. In European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). This may have a bearing the spring of 2018, the Norwegian Food Safety Authority warned on the conclusions of the Norwegian Food Safety Authority in against consuming fish from Kalken – a small body of water located its assessment of PFOS in fish and biota at our airports. The close to the airport. Avinor alerted landowners and erected signs. Norwegian Environment Agency has also warned that the norm Further analyses have subsequently been carried out, including on value for PFOS in the soil will be lowered. Consequently, Avinor other bodies of water in the area. The results are being reviewed by has a stricter internal limit for when soil is to be classified as the Norwegian Food Safety Authority. Drinking water in the area contaminated than the limit dictated by national regulations. The is being checked, and Avinor is aiming to establish a single water processing of earth contaminated with PFAS in connection with treatment plant in 2019. major and minor expansion projects poses a challenge for Avinor, as only a small number of waste processing sites can accept soil An estimated 108 kilos of PFOS were estimated to be present in the contaminated with PFAS. ground and groundwater at Oslo Airport at the firefighting exercise area before measures were implemented. A total of 22.4 kilos had In August 2018, the Norwegian Environment Agency ordered Avinor been removed by the end of 2018, which is a reduction of around 21 to summarise the results from surveys conducted at all our airports. per cent. Continuous water treatment measures are in place by way Along with the evaluation of possible measures and estimates of of the treatment of groundwater and wastewater through two carcosts, the results will provide a basis for prioritising the implemenbon filter-based treatment plants commissioned in 2015 and 2016. tation of measures at the airports. Action plan for firefighting exercise area at Svalbard Airport submitted to the district governor Applied to the Norwegian Avinor switched Analysis of living organisms. Ministry of Climate and from PFOS-free to Norwegian Food Safety Authority Cleaning Order regarding water Order regarding a joint Environment to excavate fluorine-free foam at analyzing fish and shellfish at measures starts purification measures at assessment of PFAS contamination contaminated soil at all its airports 5 airports. No warnings at Oslo Airport Harstad/Narvik Airport at Avinor's airports Harstad/Narvik Airport Plan for measures ordered at Svalbard aiport 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 2018 2019 Mapping and risk evaluation Plan for implementing Reports from Norwegian Food Safety Project design for of PFOS contamination at all ordered by Norwegian 18 airports Authority analyzing fish measures at some Avinor Airports 2011/2012 Environment Agency at around several airports. airports Kristiansand airport Restrictions at Fagernes airport Plan for implementing measures ordered New analyses New limit (TWI) for Warning against by Norwegian Environment Agency at of fish around the consumption consumption of fish Harstad/Narvik. Norwegian Food Safety several airports of PFOS from Leirin (incl. Kalken) Authority evaluates several airports. and Sustjernet at Warnings at Sogndal Airport Fagernes Airport Timeline outlining key activities and events related to PFOS between 2011 and 2019. For detailed figures on these events, please see PFOS in focus at Avinor.no. 44 AVINOR AS In 2018, strategic efforts have been underway to determine which Status of aircraft noise in 2018 measures can be taken in relation to the soil contaminated with The graphic shows the trend for aircraft noise and traffic levels at PFOS at Oslo Airport. The decision was made to apply to the Oslo Airport from 2000 to 2018. Total noise (Lden) from all recorded Norwegian Environment Agency to excavate and dispose of the soil traffic is calculated for each year. The change in noise levels after contaminated with PFOS. Oslo Airport is now in dialogue with the 2000 is then calculated for each year and plotted along with the Norwegian Environment Agency to determine how the scheduled trend for total traffic levels. This representation gives a picture of excavation works will be conducted. Preparatory work ahead of noise levels over time, independent of the geographic areas that are excavation works started in the autumn of 2018. affected. Following the orders of Svalbard’s District Governor, Svalbard lufthavn The combined aircraft noise impact around Oslo Airport increased AS in co-operation with the local government of Longyearbyen and by only 0.3 dB in 2018 compared with 2017, despite a 5.1 per cent Store Norske Kullkompani – submitted an action plan for the manageincrease in traffic. This moderate increase in noise levels is due to ment of PFAS at active and decommissioned firefighting exercise areas. the increased use of more modern and quieter aircraft. Those wishing to get more information (in Norwegian) can find The noise level in 2018 was 0.4 dB greater than the level in 2000, reports, evaluations, and the orders of the Norwegian Environment based on the calculations for all recorded traffic. The increase in Agency on Avinor’s website under “PFOS i fokus”: https://avinor.no/ traffic between 2000 and 2018 of 48,750 flight movements correom Avinor//miljo-og-samfunn/pfos-i-fokus/ sponds to an increase of 0.93 dB compared with traffic levels in 2000. This means that new, modern types of aircraft have more than compensated for the increase in traffic. AIRCRAFT NOISE Revised noise regulations developed by the Norwegian Civil Avinor will work actively to reduce the impact of noise from Aviation Authority came into force for Oslo Airport on 26 May 2016. aircraft and helicopter traffic for residents at 10 5) of Avinor’s The purpose of this regulation is to avoid unnecessary noise loads noisiest airports by 2020. in areas around the airport, while maintaining safety levels, operational conditions, capacity, and other environmental conditions. Aircraft noise in brief The regulations permit the permanent use of curved approaches Noise from aircraft affects the local areas around our airports. – as also referred to in the section on greenhouse gas emissions – as Active efforts are underway at Oslo Airport to make aircraft noise the flightpaths are located away from densely populated areas. The predictable for our neighbours. Consequently, monthly traffic and regulations also specify an adjusted departure corridor for deparnoise level reports that are submitted to the public authorities are tures from the airport’s north-east corner. Compliance with the also made available to our neighbours via Avinor’s websites. The new departure corridor exceeds 95 per cent. This adjustment makes Noise and Flightpath Monitoring Facility records flight movements it possible to maintain departure capacity at the airport while and conducts continuous noise readings in the airport’s local area. avoiding flying over densely populated areas around the airport. The data is assessed against the current regulations for approaches and departures to identify any non-compliance. Oslo Airport received aircraft noise enquiries from 150 people in 2018, predominantly from those living in Ullensaker, Eidsvoll, and Oslo Airport’s neighbour pages online are designed to enable Nannestad. the airport’s neighbours to find traffic information, the airport’s aircraft noise zone map, or to contact the airport regarding noise A strategic noise mapping study was conducted at Bergen Airport, from aircraft. Oslo Airport also has a dedicated phone number for Flesland, pursuant to the Environmental Noise Directive (Directive aircraft noise enquiries. A summary of the enquiries and how traffic 2002/49/EC). New approach and departure flightpaths for helicoplevels are affecting noise at the airport is reported to the Norwegian ters have been implemented, which means that there are variations Civil Aviation Authority in a monthly report from the Noise and in which areas are flown over. Residents can, therefore, enjoy Flightpath Monitoring Facility. periods without noise from helicopters in the immediate vicinity of where they live. In addition, Avinor has carried out noise mapping at Sandane, Båtsfjord, Sogndal, Hasvik, and Kirkenes airports on the basis of the requirements of T-1442 “Guidelines for noise management in land-use planning”. LOCAL AIR QUALITY The air quality in and around airport areas is determined by local and regional emissions, weather conditions, and topography. Locally at airports, emissions from airport operations have the biggest bearing on air quality, with aircraft and vehicles as the primary sources of emissions. Road traffic is the main source of emissions outside the airport area. Other factors that affect air quality are industrial emissions, emissions from heating, and contaminants Curved approaches from the south and north respectively. conveyed over long distances. 5) Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim, Tromsø, Kristiansand, Ålesund, Brønnøysund, Kirkenes, Florø COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 45 AIRCRAFT MOVEMENTS AND NOISE AT OSLO AIRPORT AVINOR’S ENERGY CONSUMPTION ACCORDING TO SOURCE Change in noise levels Lden (dBA) Annual aircraft movements Energy consumption, GWh 1.5 300 000 300 1.0 250 000 275 0.5 0 200 000 250 -0.5 -1.0 150 000 225 -1.5 100 000 200 -2.0 -2.5 50 000 175 -3.0 -3.5 0 150 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Change in noise levels Lden (dBA) Annual aircraft movements Electric District heating Oil heating Based on surface area in 2012 Although the municipalities have primary responsibility for increase in 2016 and 2017 due to the expansion of both Bergen assessing air quality, where there is reason to suspect that limits are Airport, Flesland, and Oslo Airport. In relation to the energy target, being exceeded, the owners of facilities that are making a substanwhich is based on the existing stock of buildings and facilities in tial contribution to the exceeding of such limits will be responsible 2012, energy consumption decreased by 1 per cent (2.5 GWh) in for contributing to mapping and the evaluation of measures. Oslo 2018 compared to 2012 (see the line in the graph above). Airport has operated an air quality monitoring facility since the early 2000s. This was originally associated with the measurement In 2018, Oslo Airport conducted a pilot project involving the drilling of air quality near the firefighting exercise area. Statistics from of two 1,500-metre-deep geothermal energy wells, replacing a 1 MW previous years show that concentrations of particulate matter and electrode boiler. The project, which was undertaken by Norwegian nitrogen dioxide at the selected measuring point have been within Energy Drilling, was very successful, and the wells are now fully both regulatory requirements and national targets, exceeding the operational. More than 6,000 lights in the P-10 carpark have been recommended air quality criteria on only a few occasions. swapped to controllable LED lighting, which provides annual savings of around 3 GWh. Several smaller measures have also been underAvinor has been a participant in the project “Mapping exposure taken in relation to ventilation, heating, lighting, and management, to diesel exhaust particulates in Norwegian working life using which have reduced consumption at the airport by around 2 GWh. elemental carbon (EC) as a marker”. In its report, STAMI concludes that “operators at airports who are exposed to diesel exhaust gases Solar panel array at Svalbard Airport from stationary parked aircraft are exposed to air concentrations (= A solar panel array has been installed on the terminal of Svalbard 2.7 μg/m3) that occur in central urban areas.” Airport. The array was expanded in 2018 and the total output now stands at 137 kWp. Electricity production of approximately 45 MWh Status of emissions into the air in 2018 is expected in 2019, catering for around five per cent of the airport’s Avinor did not carry out its own measurements of air quality in electricity needs. 2018. Measurements from previous years have returned values well under regulatory requirements and national targets. Stavanger Airport has taken the concept report for innovative energy and climate solutions in buildings one step further and applied to Enova’s programme for the large-scale demonstration of ENERGY future energy systems. Avinor’s environmental goals for energy for 2016 to 2020: Avinor must reduce purchased energy by 25 per cent by 2020 compared with the energy consumption of its buildings and facilities in 2012. The energy that supplies Avinor’s building stock and infrastructure primarily derives from purchased electricity. Some airports are connected to the district heating network. In addition, there are a few airports that produce their own energy from wood chips, seawater, geothermal energy, and solar power. Energy is primarily used for heating, cooling, lighting, runway facilities, and other technical equipment. Avinor’s total energy consumption has increased slightly from 2017 to 2018, but the result is better than expected, despite the very cold winter and record hot summer. The graph shows energy consumption from 2012 to 2018, categorised by energy carrier with a clear Solar panel array at Svalbard Airport. 46 AVINOR AS THE FIRST AIRPORT IN THE WORLD TO BE COOLED WITH SNOW Every winter, huge amounts of snow are collected at Oslo with sawdust, which acts as an insulator to retain the cold Airport. The snow is divided into two categories – clean and of the snow and ice. The cold meltwater is recovered in unclean, i.e. with or without de-icing chemicals. a heat exchanger and transferred to the central cooling system, before being returned to the snow storage, where it The unclean snow is collected and, once melted, the contais recharged by the cold of the snow and ice, and then going minated water goes to the municipal wastewater treatment through the cycle again. The energy of the snow and the plant and is pre-heated using reclaimed heat. The clean cold meltwater is used to cool Pier North on hot days. snow is allowed to melt naturally and sink into the ground. At Oslo Airport, this is important for maintaining the water As the snow and ice in the snow storage melt, there is an balance in the ground and forms part of the licensing requiexcess of clean meltwater, which is gradually released into rements for operating the airport. the ground to help maintain the water balance. The clean snow is first collected in a large snow storage area shaped like a basin. Once full, the basin is covered 5 Pumping station 2 1 Wood chips 3 6 7 Snow 4 storage Pump Winter Summer 1. Snow is collected from the whole airport area 2. Deposited in a snow storage 3. During spring the snow is covered by wood chips 4. During summer the snow will melt and the melt water is filtered and pumped to terminal 2 5. A heat exchanger transfer the cold water to the airport central cooling system 6. Return water is transferred back to the snow storage to keep the melt process going. 7. Excess water is spread over terrain (or infiltrated to the ground) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 47 In 2018, all airports have introduced energy management and energy monitoring systems, and courses have been provided on their use. Active energy monitoring efforts and efforts relating to the use of the system have begun and will be a key focus area in 2019. Both small and large energy initiatives are always being implemented by the airports themselves, including switching to LED lighting, adjustments to heating and cooling plants, demand control, some upgrades to heating and ventilation systems, and retrofitting insulation in buildings. WASTE Stavanger Airport, Sola, has produced honey for five seasons. The honey will Avinor’s waste strategy states that we will work to reduce our be available in new packaging this year. volume of waste, focus on the final disposal of waste through the value chain, and maintain a special focus on hazardous waste. for the individual airports. This guidance is followed wherever it is Airport operations generate waste from public areas, such as possible to combine this with the safe and efficient operation of the security control, food outlets, shops, and waiting areas, as well as airport. from workshops, garages, offices, the cleaning of aircraft, and, not least, construction projects. Avinor has procedures to prevent the import and proliferation of alien species, with a special focus on substance management and Avinor is working with professional operators to ensure the best operational measures. Several airports have large populations of waste management possible and to adhere to our strategy. A new harmful, alien species. Every year many measures are implemented procurement process took place in 2018, which saw a change of to limit their proliferation and eradication these populations. Our waste services supplier at 40 of Avinor’s airports. Considerable emphasis is on avoiding the further spread into valuable natural emphasis was placed on quality and the environment as criteria of areas. the procurement process. The UN sustainable development goal (SDG) number 15.7 Each airport has its own waste plan that is adapted to local operaddresses the illegal trade in wild living animals and plants. Here, ations and local opportunities. These plans were revised in 2018, Avinor plays a role as its airports can be used as transport routes. along with a review of equipment, transport frequency, and source Avinor is involved in the international co-operative efforts of the sorting. Although all the airports sort their waste at source, the ACI World Wildlife Task Force in ROUTES. fractions that are sorted and recycling opportunities vary between different regions. In 2018, the government presented a national strategy to ensure viable populations of wild bees and other pollinating insects. This Avinor’s emphasis is on the safe management of hazardous waste. strategy is linked to UN SDG number 2 – to eradicate hunger – as 2 Several airports improved their storage routines and equipment in pollinators and pollination play vital roles in ecosystems and for 2018. A total of 575 tonnes of hazardous waste were disposed of in food production. Avinor is following up this strategy by focusing 2018, originating primarily from workshop activities. on areas that can serve as good habitats for pollinating insects by adjusting cutting frequencies, avoiding pesticides and activities that Avinor has airports throughout Norway, which means there can be can destroy habitats, and removing harmful alien species. At Oslo long distances between the airport and waste processing facilities. Airport, for example, there are specific areas set aside for pollinating In recent years, the focus has been on minimising the transport of insects. Kristiansand Airport now has a specially adapted maintewaste in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to cut costs. nance regime to preserve one of the region’s largest hay meadows. And at Tromsø and Oslo airports, hot water and steam have been tested as alternatives to pesticides. BIODIVERSITY Many of Avinor’s airports are located in or around areas rich in THE ENVIRONMENT IN PROCUREMENT PROCESSES biodiversity. These areas include conservation areas with rare speAND CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS cies, salmon rivers, and salmon fjords. Avinor also has large areas of meadow or meadow-like vegetation along its runways. Several Avinor procures products and services worth considerable amounts airports host habitats for endangered species. of money. Procurement totalled NOK 6,000 million in 2018, of which NOK 2,000 million relates to investments in major construction In order to maintain a good overview of the natural values of projects such as terminal expansions and runway extensions. NOK Avinor’s properties and of areas that can be affected by airport oper4,000 million relates to operating purchases. ations, Avinor has conducted biodiversity surveys at all its airports. The results of the surveys are publicly available at Naturbase. The Avinor has an ambitious environmental strategy with Group-wide knowledge from the reports is used as part of operations, projects, targets in areas relating to water, the ground, the climate, and and planning, while the mapping provides conservation guidance noise. To succeed, it is essential that environmental considerations 48 AVINOR AS The centralised management and operation of the airports Avinor is a participating member of Green Dot Norway, a is certified in accordance with ISO14001. packaging recycling scheme. We demand that our Norwegian suppliers are members of their packaging recycling scheme. are integrated into day-to-day operations, the procurement of The environment department is working closely with the central products and services, and the planning and execution of building procurement departments to assist with specific procurements and construction projects. Procurement is an important tool for as well as to provide general advice on environmental conditions realising the strategy. relating to procurement. Avinor has the opportunity to steer suppliers in several sectors Avinor sets environmental requirements for all its building and in a more eco-friendly direction. Furthermore, environmental construction projects and is continually working to further develop requirements in procurement are an important part of Avinor’s its environmental requirements in line with developments in the environmental policy. Standardised requirements for environmenindustry. To maintain focus on the environment throughout the tal management systems are integrated into the templates used for lifecycle of building and construction projects, the environment is all Group procurement processes where relevant. In addition, the a component of Avinor’s project management system as a separate environment is weighted heavily in procurement processes that are process. Environmental monitoring plans are drawn up for major deemed to be of great importance to the external environment. building and construction projects to cater for the external environment in the planning and execution phases, as well as to ensure Avinor has a centralised procurement unit in order to strengthen that the environment is considered when choosing materials and the professional procurement environment and establish clear solutions. interfaces with other professional areas, including the environment. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 49 50 AVINOR AS Key figures climate and environment 2014-2018 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 1) 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Avinor monitors tonnes CO2-equiv. 15 780 16 300 15 100 15 500 15 120 Avinor monitors/passenger g CO2-equiv./passenger 290 308 297 310 302 ENERGY 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Electric Power GWh 243 245 230 231 223 District heating GWh 26 25 22 12 15 Oil heating GWh 4.1 6.0 2.8 2.8 1.7 Reserve power GWh 1.0 0.8 0.9 1.7 2.3 Total GWh 274 276 256 248 242 VEHICLES – FUEL AND OTHER ENERGY 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Diesel litre 2 555 823 2 598 254 2 464 308 2 669 237 2 625 548 Petrol litre 65 261 59 460 60 805 65 619 76 255 Biodiesel litre 320 082 199 730 81 767 9 280 Electric vehicles km 80 368 58 595 72 472 85 134 Hydrogen vehicles km 7 848 10 914 21 833 16 773 WASTE 2018 2) 2017 2) 2016 2) 2015 2014 Sorted waste tonnes 5 301 7 542 4 687 7 999 8 407 Mixed waste tonnes 5 086 5 654 5 058 5 793 6 087 Total amount of waste tonnes 10 387 13 195 9 745 13 792 14 494 Sorting grade % 51 57 48 59 58 Hazardous waste tonnes 512 381 285 385 515 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 51 FIRE/ACCIDENT CHEMICALS 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Jet fuelA1 / Paraffin litre 55 840 73 852 68 470 72 225 72 965 Diesel / Petrol litre 5 742 2 560 767 3 333 5 656 Propane kg 2 271 4 064 2 028 3 837 2 662 Fire-fighting foam litre 24 398 25 916 23 886 27 356 20 785 Training foam litre 187 1 006 1 762 1 610 Fire-fighting extinguishing powder kg 18 417 19 563 19 973 23 719 17 247 Technical alcohol litre 1 502 872 1 545 1 156 721 Kindling wood kg 3 400 3 892 6 744 5 397 2 427 DE-ICING CHEMICALS 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Aircraft de-icing chemicals 100 % ethylene glycol litre 5 071 245 3 646 921 2 716 432 2 412 346 2 287 775 Runway de-icing chemicals Formate (liquid form) 3) litre 3 549 226 4 313 719 3 622 010 3 552 317 2 591 111 Formate (solid) 3) kg 663 503 742 529 477 530 443 850 210 275 Environmental impact measured as COD 4) tonnes O2 614 005 731 565 580 693 563 887 385 208 NUMBER OF AIRPORTS WITH OPERATIONAL STOPPAGES DUE TO AIRCRAFT AND RUNWAY DE-ICING CONDITIONS 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Aircraft de-icing number 10 5) 11 5) 10 5) 3 4 Runway de-icing number 3 5) 1 5) 1 5) 1 1 Some of the key figures from previous annual reports may be corrected due to quality assurance of recorded data, as well as the adjustment of annual emission factors. 1) For 2017, a change of data for greenhouse gas emissions has been made since CO2 emissions from electricity consumption have been deducted for all years and only stated as Gwh. 2) Waste data from 2016, 2017 and 2018 is not comparable with previous years as the sample is different. OSL only has numbers from OSL, not from all other companies operating at LH. 3) Indicated as amount of product, not concentrate. 4) COD = Chemical oxygen demand. This is the amount of oxygen required to break down the chemical that is used. 5) For OSL, the stoppage is due to aircraft and/or runway de-icing (recipient-based permission). 52 AVINOR AS Avinor shall be a professional and attractive employer Avinor’s objective is to create valuable relationships. This is reflected in a value platform which provides clear requirements for employee performance, both internally in the workplace and in dealings with customers, business contacts, and others who are affected by our operations. Our 2018 employee survey showed that 70 per cent of our employinstrumental in achieving the Group’s targets. In 2018, Avinor ees are highly or very highly committed to their job. maintained close co-operation with employee representatives with respect to ongoing administrative procedures as well as to ·· Avinor has a good working environment more extensive change processes. One goal is to further develop ·· Job satisfaction is high this model of co-operation between employee representatives and ·· 80 per cent perceive Avinor to be an attractive workplace management to ensure good working conditions, stable operations, and cost-effectiveness throughout the Group. RESTRUCTURING Three of the eight representatives on Avinor’s Board of Directors represent Avinor’s employees. In addition, representatives are Avinor’s strategic plan for 2018 to 2023 stresses the capability of elected by and from among employees to the Board of Directors of change using new technology, innovation, and cost-cutting. Various Avinor Air Navigation Services. concepts are being worked on to improve the competitiveness of the Group. This means that a significant proportion of the Group’s employees are affected by the restructuring. Avinor stresses the CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT importance of preparing for and implementing changes in a professional and orderly manner, with employee representatives as Continuous improvement is a key focus area for Avinor, the objecimportant partners. The Group must take good care of its employtive being to create a shared culture for improvement throughout ees in all change processes, be they major or minor. Consequently, the Group. In 2018, Avinor implemented a Group-wide framework managers, employee representatives, and safety personnel have for training for use throughout the organisation. A comprehensive been given the requisite training in advance in the restructuring range of courses has been developed offering a broad spectrum and communication, and this will continue going forwards. Where of training tailored to various target groups. Tailored training for redundancies have been required, Avinor has focussed on voluntary managers ensures a broad anchoring in improvement efforts. Oslo agreements and scheduled departures to reduce redundancies to a Airport has worked systematically with LEAN and continuous minimum. improvement for several years, with good results. Elements of LEAN methodology are used at other Avinor airports as part of In 2018, Avinor undertook a negotiating process to change the improvement efforts. Tailored assistance is provided to implement Group’s pension scheme. Agreements were reached with all the improvement efforts within individual units as required. Avinor’s Group’s unions to close the defined-benefit pension scheme as management system – SMART – provides frameworks for process of 1 January 2019. Those employed in Avinor AS and Svalbard management and process ownership, in which continuous Lufthavn AS up to 31 December 2018 can choose whether they improvement is an approach that ensures stable, efficient, and good wish to remain in the defined-benefit scheme or move over to the quality processes. defined-contribution scheme. An agreement was reached with the unions for Avinor Air Navigation Services that employees who reach the age of 53 in 2019 or thereafter will be transferred to the SKILLS DEVELOPMENT defined-contribution scheme. Employees who are older than 53 can choose whether to move to the defined-contribution scheme. Employees with the right skills are essential to Avinor’s success. In addition to efficiency improvements, developments in technology and digitalisation result in new forms of learning and collaboration. CO-OPERATION This necessitates a comprehensive boost in skills throughout the Group. A digital maturity analysis was conducted in 2018, the Avinor has a high level of trade union membership. Avinor AS results of which will form the basis for concrete measures for and Avinor Air Navigation Services have collective agreements increasing the digital skills of Avinor’s employees. This is a collabowith their respective unions. The employee representatives are ration between HR and IT. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 53 54 AVINOR AS Skills stipulated by the authorities constitute a significant portion Avinor conducts systematised performance reviews that ensure of Avinor’s training activities, with constant updates and new neutral salary and career development. The Group’s recruitment certifications. In 2018, Avinor initiated a project to reorganise policy contains specific guidelines that ensure the objective meastraining, the objective being to cost effectively develop, provide, urement of qualifications in interview situations. Many positions and maintain skills. Over the past two years, Avinor has worked in Avinor have statutory non-negotiable requirements regarding intensively to ensure that all airport managers are approved health, physical condition, conduct, and security clearance. This pursuant to the new requirements of the Norwegian Civil Aviation somewhat limits Avinor’s inclusion and equality opportunities. Authority. In 2018, a skills plan was also drafted that includes the training of managers, work environment committee members, and The Group is focussing on increasing the proportion of women safety co-ordinators in accordance with the requirements of the employees. The percentage of women among permanent employees Norwegian Work Environment Act. is 22.5 per cent. The proportion of women in managerial positions is approximately equal to the proportion of women in the company, Effective management is fundamental to Avinor’s business and with 20.5 per cent in the Group as a whole, 33.3 per cent in the employee relationships, and the Group is investing widely in manexecutive management, and 50 per cent on the Board of Directors. agement development. Digitalisation skills, commercialisation, and continuous improvement will be vital for meeting future challenges. The Group had a low staff turnover rate of 4.2 per cent in 2018. In 2018, Avinor launched its leadership platform programme, which Consequently, increasing the proportion of women through new is a continuation of the Group’s previous leadership development employees is protracted. In addition, few women train in the profesprogrammes and is due to continue into 2019. The investment in sions that Avinor recruits for, such as airport operations, firefighting, management is being strengthened and supplemented through rescue, and air traffic control. The percentage of women employees is the development of an effective management team and courses in monitored closely. Avinor’s recruitment policy contains clear guidepractical, operational leadership. lines that promote a gender balance, from the design of recruitment adverts to the interview and selection process. Equal opportunities Avinor´s ambition is to be be an attractive workplace that recogfor men and women in management are a focus area in all Avinor’s nises hard work and skill. Consequently, a programme has been management and employee development programmes. In 2018, developed for employees that stand out in terms of their initiative, a women’s network was established to assist HR in attracting and attitude, and skills. The programme will help to discover, develop, retaining skilled women. Employee surveys confirm that employees and utilise talent and skills for the benefit of both Avinor and the feel that they have equal opportunities regardless of their gender, and individual employee. there is a high level of commitment in the Group. Our objective is to develop a proud and improvement-oriented As an Inclusive Working Life company, Avinor emphasises the precorporate culture. Consequently, all measures within management vention of exclusion from work and has schemes in place especially and employee development at Avinor use cultural development as for employees who no longer meet physical and medical requiretheir superstructure. ments due to illness or other circumstances. In 2018, Avinor had adapted work agreements in place with approximately 30 employees The focus on projects as a working method at Avinor was supported to enable them to maintain their employment within the company. by Avinor’s project school through to 2018. Project training will subsequently be adjusted and adapted to the needs of the organisation. In January 2018, a separate Inclusive Working Life committee was Project training enables employees to develop formal skills in the established at Avinor. The duties of the Inclusive Working Life comfield of project management and methodology. mittee include supporting the follow-up of preventable absence in the Group and work to establish preventative measures throughout Avinor has its own summer internship programme, where students the organisation. help to shed light on specific issues and solve business-critical tasks. The internship programme benefits both Avinor and the In 2018, several schemes were implemented for people with students, who may write their bachelor’s or master’s thesis in this disabilities and reduced occupational opportunities. Partners in field. these efforts include NAV, HELT MED, Church City Mission, and social enterprises. Avinor established nine new internship places in 2018 (at Oslo, Stavanger, Kristiansand, and Lakselv airports) in addition to those that commenced in 2017. A total of 13 apprentices passed their BREACH OF WORKING HOURS PROVISIONS apprenticeship exams at Avinor during the year. Avinor had 20 interns in 2018, compared with its target of 42. The reason for this It is important that Avinor does not breach the working hours shortfall is the lack of candidates due to competition with other provisions of the Working Environment Act or collective agreecompanies offering internships, as well as challenges in covering ments. The Group systematically monitors how working hours are the curriculum objectives for the relevant disciplines. planned. Training among managers and shift planners has been implemented in vulnerable units. INCLUSION AND EQUALITY In the Group overall, there was an increase in the number of breaches of working hours provisions. Most units have reduced the Avinor works actively, purposefully, and systematically to promote number of violations, but some units have endured unpredictable equal opportunities and prevent discrimination. Employees shall staffing challenges at times. This is followed up by way of concrete enjoy equal opportunities in the Group, irrespective of gender, age, measures aimed at the relevant units and by exploring opportunidisability, ethnicity, or cultural background. ties for optimising shift patterns. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 55 HEALTH, SAFETY, AND ENVIRONMENT (HSE) SYSTEMATIC EFFORTS TO REDUCE ABSENCE DUE TO ILLNESS An HSE strategy was established in Avinor for the first time in 2018. The overall objective of Avinor’s HSE efforts is to prevent Avinor has good procedures for handling absence due to illness. HSE non-compliance, personal injuries, and work-related illness. Efforts relating to absence due to illness are a priority, with effecAvinor’s long-term goal of zero harm govern how we think and tive, systematic efforts being made throughout the organisation to work, with a strong emphasis on continuous improvement. maintain a low level of absence due to illness. Sub-goals have been defined within five areas: Effective strategic anchoring of HSE efforts; systematic efforts to reduce HSE risk; In 2018, a representative Inclusive Working Life committee was set anchoring in leadership for all operational HSE work; clearer HSE up. The committee has reviewed existing procedures for following requirements and the systematic monitoring of all operators; and up absence due to illness. These efforts have been targeted at shortproviding motivation to over-perform and for job satisfaction. term and medium-term absence due to illness to help prevent and reduce long-term absence. New procedures have been developed In 2018, an HR, remuneration, and HSE committee was established and implemented. Courses in how to follow up absence due to as a sub-committee to the Group’s Board of Directors. illness raise the skills of managers in this area. Information and expectations are communicated in management environments, There have been systematic efforts throughout 2018 to operationwork environment committees, and staff meetings. alise the HSE strategy in the company, such as by establishing HSE action plans for all local units. Key elements in these efforts include: Absence due to illness was 4.7 per cent in 2018. This is above the target of 4.5 per cent or lower for the Group. ·· the establishment of better systems for raising, monitoring, and reporting HSE non-compliance and personal injury ·· the systematic mapping and documenting of HSE risks for all units AVINOR’S EMPLOYEES – KEY FIGURES ·· the drafting of a skills plan within HSE with the aim of having all mandatory HSE training implemented and documented during 2019 2018 2017 2016 ·· the conducting of a GAP analysis against the new ISO45001 Work Permanent employees as at 31 December 3 099 3 098 3 074 Environment standard ·· the conclusion of several co-ordination agreements relating to Temporary full-time equivalents 1) 199.9 209 200 central and local contracts Average age of permanent employees 46.7 46.6 46.0 ·· the acquisition of a system, HMS-reg, that ensures that Avinor Total turnover 2) 4.2 % 3.0 % 4.9 % only concludes contracts with serious operators in the construction industry Proportion of women 3) 22.5 % 22.0 % 22.1 % ·· systematic efforts to reduce absence due to illness Percentage of women in managerial ·· the continuation of the Aktiv Bedrift (Active Business) scheme positions 20.5 % 20.1 % 17.9 % in 2018 Percentage of women in executive management 33.3 % 33.3 % 25.0 % As of 2018, the H1 value (number of injuries resulting in absence per Percentage of women on the Group’s million hours worked) and H2 value (number of injuries with and Board of Directors 4) 50.0 % 37.5 % 50.0 % without absence per million hours worked) have been made central Absence due to illness 4.7 % 4.5 % 4.7 % KPIs in Avinor. H1 value 5) 3.8 1.4 4.0 In 2018, the H1 value was 3.8 (compared with a target of < 2) and H2 value 6) 5.1 the H2 value was 5.1 (compared with a target of < 10). There were Avinor as an attractive company (scale 1-5) 4.0 4.0 4.0 12 injuries that resulted in absence in Avinor AS, four of which were serious. All serious personal injuries are investigated and closely followed up. AGE BOARD OF EXECUTIVE PERMANENT DISTRIBUTION DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEES TURNOVER <30 0.0 % 0.0 % 5.9 % 5.5 % SAFETY ORGANISATION 30-50 0.0 % 27.3 % 55.4 % 2.9 % Avinor is divided up into specific safety areas, with a safety co-ordi50< 100.0 % 72.7 % 38.7 % 5.9 % nator for each area. Larger airports have several safety co-ordinators. Working environment committees or HSE committees have 1) Including air traffic controllers. been established at central and division level, as well as locally at 2) Including all reasons for termination of employment, excluding final agreements. 3) The percentage of women among permanent and temporary employees. unit level. The committees consist of employee and management 4) According to the Norwegian Companies Act, the requirement of having a 40 per representatives. The safety co-ordinator and occupational health cent proportion of women on the Board of Directors applies to owner-apposervice also participate. A chemicals committee, Inclusive Working inted members. At Avinor the proportion of women among owner-appointed members is 60 per cent. Life committee, and AKAN (prevention of alcohol and drug 5) The number injuries resulting in absence per million hours worked problems in the workplace) committee have been established as 6) The number of injuries with and without absence per million hours worse, first sub-committees to the central work environment committee. recorded in Avinor in 2018. 56 AVINOR AS Avinor shall ensure that it conducts its business responsibly Avinor is working systematically to combat all forms of corruption, discrimination, environmental crime, and harassment. The Group’s ethics guidelines and effective notification procedures are obligatory for management, employees, suppliers, and partners. ZERO-TOLERANCE POLICY IN RELATION TO corruption and misconduct has increased as a result of this investALL FORMS OF CORRUPTION ment programme. Avinor is represented throughout the country and has a broad sphere of influence as a major purchase and as an The Group has developed an anti-corruption programme focusing administrator of large commercial contracts. This is an additional on prevention and control activities. Specific measures have also factor that further increases the risk of corruption and misconduct. been established based on a risk assessment of the relevant area. Various control and prevention activities have been established Governing documents have been developed relating to these efforts which, together, are intended to reduce the Group’s risk of being and there is a constant focus on the continued development of the involved in or exposed to corruption and misconduct. anti-corruption programme. In 2018, Avinor conducted a risk and vulnerability analysis for Avinor has implemented a corruption risk monitoring element corruption and misconduct in project management environments within the Group’s system for strategic risk management. Avinor is in development and IT. The risks identified are managed by way a major construction developer and has initiated several expansion of relevant measures following discussions with the compliance projects in recent years. The building and construction sector has officer and professionals. The following up of measures and their been the subject of a number of incidents relating to corruption impact are reported through the Group’s corporate governance and price fixing in Norway. Consequently, Avinor’s risk exposure to system. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 57 Avinor is a member of Transparency International Norway. As a AVINOR SHALL HAVE EFFECTIVE PROCEDURES FOR member, Avinor contributes to joint efforts relating to transparency, THE MANAGEMENT OF REPREHENSIBLE ACTIONS OR integrity, and responsibility in society to prevent corruption and SITUATIONS IN ALL PARTS OF THE ORGANISATION fraud both nationally and internationally. In addition, we undertake to exercise zero tolerance of all forms of corruption in Avinor and to Avinor notification institute put in place appropriate anti-corruption measures. The Group has appointed a committee to manage notifications of reprehensible conditions in all parts of the organisation. Notifications can be submitted regarding inadequate safety proceEMPLOYEES, SUPPLIERS, AND PARTNERS MUST BE dures, bullying and harassment, careless administrative procedures, FAMILIAR WITH AND COMPLY WITH AVINOR’S ETHICS working conditions that contravene the Working Environment GUIDELINES Act, or corruption and other financial misconduct. The person submitting the notification can choose to remain anonymous. The Board has established ethics guidelines that apply to the Board The committee has established routines for the proper processing and all members of staff. The ethics guidelines prohibit corruption, of notifications. The committee has also developed procedures bribery, and anticompetitive behaviour in violation of competition and technical solutions that make it possible for external actors rules. E-courses have been developed to address the various areas to notify Avinor of reprehensible conditions. These notifications of the policy. All employees and contracted consultants must sit the must be handled according to the same procedures as notifications course once a year. from employees of the Group. Avinor complies with the Norwegian Personal Data Act regarding the processing of personal data In 2018, all management teams and staff exposed to risk completed received by way of its notification scheme. training tailored to the risks that they are exposed to in their work. A scaled-down version of the training is being rolled out to other The committee received fewer than 200 notifications in 2018, all employees. The course is mandatory for all employees and hired of which were fully addressed. In some cases, there were grounds personnel. to conclude that the matter was critical in nature. Follow-ups take place at the relevant level in the organisation. Responses and Avinor has a separate agreement on responsible business and assosanctions depend on the incident and its severity. ciated principles. The requirements stipulate all of Avinor’s principles relating to human rights, working standards, HSE, the external Compliance function environment, and prohibited business practices. Avinor’s contract Avinor’s compliance function works according to the mandate partners must conclude an agreement regarding responsible business determined by the Group’s Board of Directors and reports directly practices and associated principles no later than at the same to the Group’s executive management and Board. The function time they enter into a contract with the Group. These contractual monitors the Group’s compliance with external and internal regterms and conditions ensure that third parties with which Avinor ulations relating to corruption, misconduct, and ethics rules. The concludes contracts have ethics guidelines and take their corporate term “corruption” includes: bribery, facilitation payments, fraud, social responsibility seriously. The requirements also apply to any deception, extortion, disloyalty, money laundering, and receipt of subcontractors in the execution of a contract. The provisions of the gifts in a work capacity, as well as acts related to impartiality, abuse agreements permit audits of each contracting party. (Please see the of position, and influential trading. section “Contracted activities” on page 33). A material breach of an agreement regarding responsible business practice entitles Avinor In addition, the function defines the substance of Avinor’s to terminate all applicable agreements with the contracting party if responsibility to combat violations of labour market legislation, critical conditions are not followed up satisfactorily. stipulate requirements, propose relevant measures, monitor how the business follows up on its legal responsibilities, and establish All employees are required to register their own external duties, sanctions in the event of non-compliance. second jobs, and other roles electronically. This registration will form the basis for assessing the composition of teams that are in charge of procurement on Avinor’s behalf, participation in explorAVINOR WILL WORK TO COMBAT atory assignments, participation in decision-making assignments ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR related to business interests, etc. The members of the Group’s Board of Directors and management staff regularly report their duties Avinor is subject to public procurement regulations. Group-wide outside of the Avinor Group. An external auditor conducts annual guidelines have been established to supplement the regulations to reviews of the formal relationships between the executive manensure competition in the conclusion of individual contracts. agement, Board of Directors, and suppliers in the Avinor Group. Any relationships are documented and reviewed with the relevant parties primarily in order to confirm the information provided in the self-declarations. This annual survey is in addition to the assessments that are to be made when questions arise about the individual’s impartiality. 58 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 59 AVINOR SHALL ENSURE THAT ALL PARTIES TO Avinor has contracted audit access in all of its contract templates. AGREEMENTS HAVE ETHICS GUIDELINES AND TAKE THEIR All aspects of the contractual provisions may be revised or followed CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SERIOUSLY up through the life of the contract. The contracts permit us to penalise the other party in the event of non-compliance with Suppliers who wish to compete for a contract with Avinor must contractual provisions. undertake to comply with our principles for responsible supplier behaviour. We require, for example, that international human rights are respected and that our suppliers are not complicit in their AVINOR SHALL ENSURE THE RESPONSIBLE violation. Furthermore, the supplier must ensure that its workers’ PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA salaries meet minimum wage requirements, that their working hours are in accordance with applicable national legislation, that Avinor has appointed a data protection officer tasked with assisting their workers have the opportunity for adequate rest, and that people registered with the business (such as in customer dataemployment contracts are written in a language that the workers bases) and employees in matters relating to Avinor’s processing of understand. personal data. In addition, the data protection officer must notify the management of breaches of the Norwegian Personal Data Act Avinor is subject to public procurement regulations. The regulations and be the company’s contact for enquiries from the Norwegian give us the opportunity, subject to certain conditions, to preclude Data Protection Authority. Avinor has established a system for suppliers from competing for assignments for Avinor if the supplier internal control pursuant to the regulations of the Norwegian has been legally convicted of or been fined for corruption, among Personal Data Act. Internal and external privacy policies have also other things. The European Single Procurement Document (ESPD) been established that outline Avinor’s processing of personal data, is used in the qualification phase of procurement processes to and inform visitors to Avinor’s websites of the use of cookies. We document on an ongoing basis that the supplier meets all the qualhave concluded data processing agreements with subcontractors ification requirements of the competition. Whether the supplier that process personal data on our behalf. requires further examination depends on, for example, whether the industry in question is at risk of corruption and misconduct, In 2018, Avinor has focused on compliance with new privacy whether the supplier or subcontractor engages in significant levels regulations, including the GDPR. The processing overview and legal of production outside Europe, etc. basis for processing have been reviewed and updated. Treatment purposes are described and templates have been created for assessAvinor has concluded a co-operation agreement with the ing the implications for privacy when introducing new technical Norwegian Tax Administration regarding the intensification of solutions. We are in continuous dialogue with our airport partners efforts to combat violations of labour market legislation. The in terms of roles and responsibilities concerning data flows related purpose of the agreement is to establish ongoing collaboration that to passenger processing and baggage handling. reinforces and develops the effect of the parties’ action combat violations of labour market legislation. The agreement must ensure Avinor has not received any complaints concerning breaches of its that all of Avinor’s suppliers and subcontractors in building and customers’ privacy in 2018. construction, as well as in cleaning, fulfil their statutory obligations, including the Working Environment Act, regulations relating to pay and working conditions in public-sector contracts, and tax legislation. 60 AVINOR AS Overview of GRI indicators This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI Standards/Core. Avinor's annual accounts (company accounts and consolidated accountp. for 2018 have been audited by Ernp. & Young AS. The auditor's report is reproduced on pages 127-130. A detailed account of the reporting standard and the various indicators can be found on GRI's web pages: www.globalreporting/standards About Avinor and Avinor’s work regarding corporate social responsibility STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-14 Foreword p. 8 ORGANIZATION STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-1 Name Avinor as 102-2 Product p. 6-7 102-3 Main offices Oslo 102-4 Presence Avinor has only operations in Norway 102-5 Ownership p. 6-7 102-6 Markets p. 7 102-7 Size p. 4 102-8 Employees p. 55 102-48 Collective agreements p. 52 102-9 Supply chain p. 48 102-10 Changes p. 15 102-11 Conditions https://avinor.no/konsern/miljo-og-samfunn/miljomal/ 102-12 Support for the CSR Initiative p. 18, 20, 36 102-13 Interest-org. Spekter: Transportation Sector Council National Programme of Supplier Development: Partner COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 61 PRIORITIZATION STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-45 Overview, Company p. 7 The report concerns activities that the Group manages in airport operations and flight safety, but not activity in other subsidiaries. 102-46 Define report-content p. 20-21 102-47 Prioritization p. 21 103-1 Delimitation All topics that have been considered important are relevant to all Avinor operations. 102-48 Modified reporting p. 34 102-49 Modified measurement methods DIALOGUE WITH PARTNERS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-40 List of partners p. 20-21 102-42 Selection-basis p. 20-21 102-43 Description of dialogue p. 20-21 102-44 Topics p. 20-21 ABOUT THE REPORT STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-50 Applies to 2018 102-51 Previous report 2017 102-52 Interval Annual 102-53 Contact post@avinor.no 102-54 Type of GRI-report GRI Standards/Core 102-55 GRI indicator overview p. 60-65 102-56 Revision The annual report has been audited by ERNST & YOUNG AS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-18 Corporate governance and p. 10-13 company management ETHICAL GUIDELINES STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 102-16 Ethics guidelines p. 12, 56 https://avinor.no/konsern/om-oss/konsernet/visjon-og-verdier 62 AVINOR AS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 10-13 (The Board of Director’s report) 103-2 p. 15-19 (Corporate governance and company 103-3 management) 201-1 Financial performance p. 4, 70-126 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 26-30 103-2 103-3 203-1 Infrastructure-investments p. 26-29 203-2 Indirect economic impact p. 26-29 ENERGY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 45-47 103-2 103-3 302-1 Energy consumption p. 45, 50 302-4 Energy conservation p. 45-47, 50 BIODIVERSITY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 47-48 103-2 103-3 304-1 Property adjoining areas with high biodiversity value p. 47-48 304-2 Impact of biodiversity p. 47-48 304-3 Improvement – habitat p. 47-48 AIR EMISSIONS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 36-41 103-2 103-3 AO5 Air quality p. 45 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions p. 37, 50 305-2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 38-41 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions p. 40 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 63 EMISSIONS AND WASTE STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 42-44, 47 103-2 103-3 306-2 Waste p. 47, 50 306-3 Accidental emissions p. 42 AO6 De-icing fluid p. 42, 51 COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION – ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 36 103-2 103-3 307-1 Fines/sanctions No fines or similar (p. 51) NOISE STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 44 103-2 103-3 AO7 Noise p. 44-45 MONITORING OF SUPPLIERS/ENVIRONMENT STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Monitoring of suppliers/environment p. 48 103-2 103-3 308-1 Screening suppliers p. 48 308-2 Monitoring existing suppliers p. 48 HSE IN AVINOR STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 54-55 103-2 103-3 403-1 HSE-organization p. 54-55 403-2 Sick leave/H-value p. 55 64 AVINOR AS INTERNAL COMPETENCE BUILDING STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 52-53 103-2 103-3 404-1 Who is offered training? p. 52-53 EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES IN AVINOR STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 54 103-2 103-3 405-1 Equal opportunity on the Board, in management, among employees p. 54-55 MONITORING OF SUPPLIERS/WORKING CONDITIONS AND HUMAN RIGHTS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 57 103-2 103-3 NOTIFICATION CHANNELS STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-2 Policy/management system p. 57 NON-DISCRIMINATION STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 54 103-2 103-3 406-1 Discrimination-cases No cases LOCAL COMMUNITY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 8-9, 26-30 103-2 103-3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 65 CORRUPTION PREVENTION MEASURES STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 56-57, 59 103-2 103-3 205-2 Anti-corruption training initiatives p. 57 205-3 Corruption cases No cases ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR PREVENTION MEASURES STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 57 103-2 103-3 206-1 Cases, violation of regulations No cases REGULATORY COMPLIANCE – FINANCES AND SOCIETY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 56-59 103-2 103-3 419-1 Fines, sanctions No cases PRODUCT LIABILITY – SAFETY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 32-35 103-2 103-3 416-1 Product safety survey p. 32-35 416-2 Violation of regulations No cases REGULATORY COMPLIANCE – PRODUCT LIABILITY STANDARD-STATEMENT INDICATOR-KEYWORDS PAGE NUMBER OR URL 103-1 Policy/management system p. 32-35 103-2 103-3 419-1 Fines, sanctions No cases 66 AVINOR AS Executive management DAG FALK-PETERSEN ANDERS KIRSEBOM ØYVIND HASAAS ANETTE SIGMUNDSTAD CEO Managing Director Airport Director Airport Director Avinor Flysikring AS Oslo airport Stavanger airport, Sola MARIT HELENE STIGEN THORGEIR LANDEVAAG PETTER JOHANNESSEN MARGRETHE Airport Director Division Director national, Executive Vice President SNEKKERBAKKEN Trondheim airport, Værnes regional, and local airports economy and finance Executive Vice President strategy, safety, and the environment EGIL THOMPSON MARI HERMANSEN STINE RAMSTAD WESTBY Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President communication and marketing HR, legal and business support operations and infrastructure Leif Anker Lorentzen stood down as Airport Director for Stavanger Airport, Sola on 1 March 2019 and was replaced by Anette Sigmundstad. Aslak Sverdrup stood down as Airport Director for Bergen Airport, Flesland on 1 March 2019. A recruitment process for a replacement will take place in March 2019. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 67 Board of Directors ANNE CARINE TANUM OLA HENRIK STRAND LINDA BERNANDER HERLOF NILSSEN Chair Vice Chair SILSETH Board member CEO, BluWrap Board member Managing Director, Helse Vest RHF ELI SKRØVSET BJØRN TORE MIKKELSEN HEIDI ANETTE SØRUM OLAV AADAL Board member Board member, Board member, Board member, Executive Vice President employee representative employee representative employee representative operations management, Team leader, Kirkenes airport Head safety deputy Supervisor, Værnes TWR/APP BaneNOR Avinor Flysikring AS 68 AVINOR AS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 69 Financial statements and notes 70 AVINOR AS INCOME STATEMENT All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2018 NOTE 2018 2017 Operating income 4 337.3 4 392.0 Traffic income 3, 4 5 513.1 5 472.8 5 882.0 6 004.6 Other operating income 3, 4 6 211.1 6 053.2 10 219.3 10 396.6 Total operating income 11 724.2 11 526.0 Operating expenses 450.5 207.7 Raw materials and consumables used 3 262.0 497.6 2 085.7 2 181.7 Employee benefits expense 3, 5, 8 3 665.8 3 483.1 4 570.4 4 368.2 Other operating expenses 3, 7, 8 3 795.4 4 016.7 170.1 -66.1 Other expenses 3, 9 -199.8 402.2 7 276.7 6 691.5 Total operating expenses 7 523.4 8 399.6 2 942.6 3 705.1 EBITDA 4 200.8 3 126.4 1 744.6 1 944.4 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges 8, 12 2 103.4 1 889.1 1 198.0 1 760.7 Operating profit/(loss) 2 097.4 1 237.3 1 068.6 39.9 Finance income 10 32.8 88.1 692.3 635.8 Finance costs 10 633.7 685.6 376.3 -595.9 Net finance costs -600.9 -597.5 1 574.3 1 164.8 Profit before income tax 1 496.5 639.8 138.8 254.3 Income tax expense 11 326.8 140.5 1 435.5 910.5 Profit for the year 1 169.7 499.3 Attributable to: 1 435.5 910.5 Owners of the parent 1 169.7 499.3 The notes (note 1 to 25) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 71 STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2018 NOTE 2018 2017 1 435.5 910.5 Profit for the year 1 169.7 499.3 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss -385.9 -485.6 Actuarial gains/(losses) on post employment benefit obligations 16 -666.3 -901.8 92.6 111.7 Tax effect 11 152.9 216.3 -58.6 -66.6 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -82.4 -72.9 -351.9 -440.5 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax -595.8 -758.4 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss -109.4 186.3 Cash flow hedges 14 211.9 -97.3 26.3 -42.9 Tax effect 11 -48.7 23.4 -83.1 143.4 Total items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss, net of tax 163.2 -73.9 -435.0 -297.1 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -432.6 -832.3 1 000.5 613.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 737.1 -333.0 Attributable to: 1 000.5 613.4 Owners of the parent 737.1 -333.0 The notes (note 1 to 25) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 72 AVINOR AS STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 NOTE 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 ASSETS Non-current Assets Intangible assets 1 151.7 1 141.2 Deferred tax assets 11 1 497.4 1 511.2 35.4 30.9 Other intangible assets 12 103.4 112.8 0.0 0.0 Assets under construction, intangible 12 332.3 245.1 1 187.1 1 172.1 Total intangible assets 1 933.1 1 869.1 Property, plant and equipment 32 481.6 32 747.3 Property, plant and equipment 12 34 426.4 34 142.9 2 473.2 2 025.6 Assets under construction 12 2 496.1 2 948.0 34 954.8 34 772.9 Total property, plant and equipment 36 922.5 37 090.9 Financial assets 1 141.5 1 161.6 Investments in subsidiaries 19 0.0 0.0 120.0 190.0 Loans to group companies 23 0.0 0.0 1 215.7 1 506.2 Derivative financial instruments 14 1 506.2 1 215.7 260.1 87.2 Other financial assets 14 88.3 260.1 2 737.3 2 945.0 Total financial assets 1 594.5 1 475.8 38 879.2 38 890.0 Total non-current assets 40 450.1 40 435.8 Current Assets 12.9 13.2 Inventories 27.6 23.6 1 214.5 1 356.6 Trade and other receivables 14 1 418.8 1 400.1 4.1 53.5 Derivative financial instruments 14 53.5 4.2 2 071.8 1 721.6 Cash and cash equivalents 14 1 739.8 2 071.8 3 303.3 3 144.9 Total current assets 3 239.7 3 499.7 42 182.5 42 034.9 Total assets 43 689.8 43 935.5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 73 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 NOTE 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity 5 400.1 5 400.1 Share capital 20 5 400.1 5 400.1 5 400.1 5 400.1 Total restricted equity 5 400.1 5 400.1 Retained earnings 8 173.1 8 536.9 Other equity 15 9 140.8 8 653.4 8 173.1 8 536.9 Total retained earnings 9 140.8 8 653.4 13 573.2 13 937.0 Total equity 14 540.9 14 053.5 Provisions and liabilities Provisions 2 265.3 2 789.4 Pension liabilities 16 4 633.4 4 025.9 183.5 167.3 Other provisions 17 174.0 189.1 2 448.8 2 956.7 Total provisions 4 807.4 4 215.0 Non-current liabilities 2 083.0 1 638.6 State loan 14 1 638.6 2 083.0 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 14 0.0 25.6 19 553.7 18 570.6 Other non-current liabilities 14 18 570.6 20 097.1 21 636.7 20 209.2 Total non-current liabilities 20 209.2 22 205.7 Current liabilities 439.6 477.4 Trade payables 536.1 521.3 43.2 241.3 Tax payable 11 290.9 115.4 208.1 233.7 Public duties payable 361.6 313.3 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 14 6.2 4.9 579.0 1 531.5 First annual instalment on long-term liabilities 14 1 531.5 631.3 3 253.9 2 448.1 Other current liabilities 17, 18 1 406.0 1 875.1 4 523.8 4 932.0 Total current liabilities 4 132.3 3 461.3 28 609.3 28 097.9 Total liabilities 29 148.9 29 882.0 42 182.5 42 034.9 Total equity and liabilities 43 689.8 43 935.5 The notes (note 1 to 25) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. Oslo, 3 April 2019 Board of Directors of Avinor AS Anne Carine Tanum Ola H. Strand Eli Skrøvset Linda Bernander Silseth Chair of the Board Vice Chair Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Heidi Anette Sørum Olav Aadal Dag Falk-Petersen CEO 74 AVINOR AS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS SHARE CAPITAL OTHER RESERVES OTHER EQUITY TOTAL EQUITY Balance at 1 January 2017 5 400.1 -331.8 8 049.5 13 117.8 Profit for the year 0.0 0.0 1 435.5 1 435.5 Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension liabilities net of tax 0.0 -293.3 0.0 -293.3 Cash flow hedge 0.0 -83.1 0.0 -83.1 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.0 -9.9 -48.7 -58.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -386.3 1 386.8 1 000.5 Transactions with owners: Merger 0.0 0.0 5.1 5.1 Demerger -6.0 0.0 -55.5 -61.5 Non-cash share capital contribution 6.0 0.0 55.5 61.5 Dividends relating to 2016 0.0 0.0 -550.0 -550.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -545.0 -545.0 Balance at 1 January 2018 5 400.1 -718.1 8 891.3 13 573.2 Profit for the year 0.0 0.0 910.5 910.5 Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension liabilities net of tax 0.0 -373.9 0.0 -373.9 Cash flow hedge 0.0 143.4 0.0 143.4 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.0 -12.3 -54.3 -66.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -242.8 856.2 613.4 Transactions with owners: Merger 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Demerger -6.5 0.0 6.4 0.0 Non-cash share capital contribution 6.5 0.0 -6.4 0.0 Dividends relating to 2017 0.0 0.0 -249.7 -249.7 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -249.7 -249.7 Balance at 31 December 2018 5 400.1 -960.9 9 497.8 13 937.0 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 75 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY All amounts in MNOK AVINOR GROUP SHARE CAPITAL OTHER RESERVES OTHER EQUITY TOTAL EQUITY Balance at 1 January 2017 5 400.1 -362.4 9 898.8 14 936.6 Profit for the year 0.0 0.0 499.3 499.3 Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension liabilities net of tax 0.0 -685.5 0.0 -685.5 Cash flow hedge 0.0 -73.9 0.0 -73.9 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.0 -15.8 -57.1 -72.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -775.2 442.2 -333.0 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2016 0.0 0.0 -550.0 -550.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -550.0 -550.0 Balance at 1 January 2018 5 400.1 -1 137.6 9 791.0 14 053.5 Profit for the year 0.0 0.0 1 169.7 1 169.7 Actuarial gain/(loss) on pension liabilities net of tax 0.0 -513.4 0.0 -513.4 Cash flow hedge 0.0 163.2 0.0 163.2 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.0 -19.6 -62.8 -82.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -369.8 1 106.9 737.1 Transactions with owners: Dividends relating to 2017 0.0 0.0 -249.7 -249.7 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 -249.7 -249.7 Balance at 31 December 2018 5 400.1 -1 507.4 10 648.2 14 540.9 For specification of other reserves, see note 15. The notes (note 1 to 25) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 76 AVINOR AS STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2018 NOTE 2018 2017 Cash flow from operating activities 2 318.2 3 325.0 Cash generated from operations 1) 4 202.5 3 740.6 58.2 37.0 Interest received 37.4 59.4 -82.3 -43.4 Income tax paid -115.6 -147.5 2 294.1 3 318.6 Net cash generated from operating activities 4 124.3 3 652.5 Cash flow from investing activities -3 045.6 -2 264.6 Investments in property, plant and equipment (PPE) 12 -2 523.5 -3 414.0 15.9 21.8 Proceeds from sale of PPE, including assets under construction 26.4 16.3 20.0 -70.0 Group loans 0.0 0.0 -26.3 -9.4 Group interests 0.0 0.0 1 000.0 0.9 Net group contribution/dividend 0.0 0.0 -57.3 134.6 Change in other investments 153.8 19.9 -2 093.3 -2 186.7 Net cash used in investing activities -2 343.3 -3 377.8 Cash flow from financing activities 4 439.5 0.0 Proceeds from borrowings 14 0.0 4 439.5 -964.7 -579.0 Repayment of borrowings 14 -1 174.7 -1 016.9 -1 400.0 0.0 Net proceeds/repayment of short term borrowings (commercial papers) 14 0.0 -1 400.0 -543.2 -652.8 Interest paid -688.0 -575.9 -48.7 -0.6 Other borrowing charges -0.6 -48.7 -550.0 -249.7 Dividends paid to owner -249.7 -550.0 932.9 -1 482.1 Net cash generated/used in financing activities -2 113.0 848.0 1 133.7 -350.2 Net (decrease)/increase in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts -332.0 1 122.7 938.1 2 071.8 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 14 2 071.8 949.1 2 071.8 1 721.6 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 1 739.8 2 071.8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 77 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS All amounts in MNOK 1) CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2017 2018 2018 2017 1 574.3 1 164.8 Profit before income tax 1 496.5 639.8 1 744.6 1 944.4 Depreciation 2 103.4 1 889.1 -0.3 -8.6 (Profit)/loss on disposals of non-current assets -8.5 -0.5 -4.4 -49.4 Changes in value and other losses/(gains) net (unrealised) -47.9 0.2 -376.3 595.9 Net finance costs 600.9 597.5 -158.7 49.5 Change in inventories, trade receivables and trade payables 15.4 -161.2 228.0 38.5 Difference between pension cost and amount paid/received -58.8 536.6 267.5 56.7 Change in other working capital items 101.5 239.1 -956.5 -466.8 Change in group receivables and payables 0.0 0.0 2 318.2 3 325.0 Cash generated from operations 4 202.5 3 740.6 In the cash flow statement, proceeds from sale of PPE comprise: 15.6 13.2 Net book amount 17.9 15.8 0.3 8.6 Profit/(loss) on disposals of PPE 8.5 0.5 15.9 21.8 Proceeds from disposal of PPE 26.4 16.3 The notes (note 1 to 25) are an intergral part of these consolidated financial statements. 78 AVINOR AS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 General information 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 3 Segment information 4 Operating income and other income 5 Salaries and personnel costs, number of employees, remunerations 6 Declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration for the CEO and other executive employees 7 Other operating expenses 8 Impact on earnings – Terminal 2 project 9 Other expenses 10 Finance income and costs 11 Income tax expense and deferred income tax 12 Intangible asstes, property, plant and equipment 13 Financial risk factors 14 Financial assets and liabilities 15 Other reserves 16 Pension obligation 17 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 18 Other short-term liabilities 19 Subsidiaries 20 Share capital, shareholder information, dividend and results 21 Contingencies and uncertainties 22 Commitments 23 Related-party transaction 24 Events after the reporting period 25 New and future accounting standards COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 79 NOTE 1 General information Avinor AS and its subsidiaries (together 'the group') own, manage the group's main business, including commercial development. and develop aviation infrastructure and systems by facilitating The Avinor group's headquarters are located in Oslo, Dronning safe and efficient aviation. The group also renders services Eufemias gate 6. within the same areas together with other activities that add to NOTE 2 Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions consolidated financial statements are set out below and in each note and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial to the financial statement. These policies have been consistently statements are disclosed in particular. applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated. The company's most significant accounting estimates and The accounting policies set out below do also apply to the judgements are related to the following items, specified further in preparation of the financial statements of Avinor AS. each individual note: ·· Deferred taxes BASIS OF PREPERATION ·· Estimated impairment of property, plant and equipment ·· Depreciation of property, plant and equipment The consolidated financial statements of Avinor AS and Avinor ·· Net pension obligation Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by financial assets and Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) recognised currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the partly at fair value through profit or loss and partly (cash flow transaction. hedges) in other comprehensive income. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies The whole of Avinor group's operations are defined as two are translated using the exchange rate at the balance sheet cash-generating unit (CGU), one air navigation service unit and one date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical airport operation unit including property development and hotels. cost denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction. Non-monetary assets and For the airport operation unit, the group's economic model is based liabilities measured at fair value denominated in foreign currencies on the assumption that there is full cross-subsidisation between are translated using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date. profitable and unprofitable airports as well as all areas of operations (overall system). The group has a distinct expressed objective Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the income to develop, within the overall system, commercial activities in statement. The functional currency of the group companies is NOK. order to provide capital for unprofitable activities (social considerations/responsibilities) and reduce the level of traffic charges. Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to receivables, Due to this the group assess that a solution where the group's liabilities, cash and cash equivalents are considered to be operoperations, exclusive of the Air Navigation Services, are evaluated ational and have been classified as changes in value and other as a whole, presents a true and fair view of the operations. losses/(gains) net, presented within 'other expenses'. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires managment to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the group's accounting policies. Areas involving a higher 80 AVINOR AS NOTE 3 Segment information All amounts in MNOK Operating segments are reported consistent with the internal For management purpose the group is organised in one air navreporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The igation service unit and one airport operation unit according to chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating the group’s cash generating units. To better the evaluation of the resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, airport operation unit, the management has choosen to present has been identified as the group management. the airports in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and the rest inn addition to property development and hotels separately. The Avinor group operates 44 airports in Norway including Oslo Property developments and hotels consists of office buildings Airport. Operations also include air traffic control towers, control and hotels. centres and technical infrastructure for aircraft navigation. The operating segments are determined based on the reports The segment information provided to the group management for used by the group management to evaluate presentations and the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2018 is profitability at a strategic level. The segment information shows as follows: the operating profit/(loss) distributed according to the internal organising of the group. AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 TOTAL OSLO BERGEN STAVANGER TRONDHEIM OTHER AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORTS OPERATIONS Traffic income 2 144.2 561.2 411.6 366.1 923.2 4 406.4 Other operating income 3 772.8 609.4 445.2 330.1 663.8 5 821.2 Inter-segment income 1.7 3.9 5.0 2.2 62.1 74.9 Total income 5 918.7 1 174.5 861.8 698.4 1 649.1 10 302.6 Employee benefits expense 505.2 129.5 106.9 92.2 815.0 1 648.7 Other operating expenses 1 467.7 231.6 180.6 136.8 965.2 2 981.9 Inter-segment expenses 369.1 145.7 114.6 93.4 659.5 1 382.3 Total expenses 2 342.0 506.7 402.0 322.4 2 439.7 6 012.9 EBITDA 3 576.8 667.8 459.8 376.0 -790.6 4 289.7 Depreciation and amortisation 942.4 276.6 121.2 101.5 447.2 1 888.9 Operating profit/(loss) 2 634.4 391.1 338.6 274.5 -1 237.8 2 400.8 Assets 17 537.1 5 697.0 1 893.1 1 739.4 5 869.8 32 736.4 AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONTINUED TOTAL AIR PROPERTY AIRPORT NAVIGATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS SERVICES AND HOTELS OTHERS ELIMINATION TOTAL Traffic income 4 406.4 1 106.7 0.0 0.0 5 513.1 Other operating income 5 821.2 151.4 108.2 130.2 6 211.1 Inter-segment income 74.9 849.1 21.3 609.5 (1 554.9) 0.0 Total income 10 302.6 2 107.2 129.5 739.7 -1 554.9 11 724.2 Employee benefits expense 1 648.7 1 457.6 0.1 559.4 3 665.8 Other operating expenses 2 981.9 222.2 5.8 647.7 3 857.6 Inter-segment expenses 1 382.3 89.6 1.4 81.6 (1 554.9) 0.0 Total expenses 6 012.9 1 769.4 7.3 1 288.7 -1 554.9 7 523.5 EBITDA 4 289.7 337.8 122.2 -549.0 4 200.8 Depreciation and amortisation 1 888.9 104.3 36.0 74.1 2 103.4 Operating profit/(loss) 2 400.8 233.4 86.2 -623.1 0.0 2 097.4 Assets 32 736.4 760.0 795.8 237.6 34 529.8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 81 The segment information provided to the group management for the reportable segments for the year ended 31 December 2017 is as follows: AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017: TOTAL OSLO BERGEN STAVANGER TRONDHEIM OTHER AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORT AIRPORTS OPERATIONS Traffic income 2 100.7 548.7 408.8 368.3 924.0 4 350.5 Other operating income 3 730.1 558.8 439.7 324.4 645.2 5 698.2 Inter-segment income 17.0 2.8 5.3 2.7 85.6 113.4 Total income 5 847.7 1 110.3 853.8 695.4 1 654.9 10 162.1 Employee benefits expense 534.9 137.9 100.7 88.0 784.4 1 645.9 Other operating expenses 1 938.2 312.5 175.3 136.3 1 021.3 3 583.5 Inter-segment expenses 339.4 137.9 115.9 89.2 682.0 1 364.4 Total expenses 2 812.6 588.3 391.9 313.5 2 487.6 6 593.9 EBITDA 3 035.2 522.0 462.0 381.9 -832.8 3 568.2 Depreciation and amortisation 862.1 238.8 116.7 96.2 402.5 1 716.4 Operating profit/(loss) 2 173.0 283.1 345.2 285.7 -1 235.3 1 851.9 Assets 17 753.6 5 190.6 1 798.3 1 773.4 6 052.0 32 567.9 AVINOR GROUP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 CONTINUED TOTAL AIR PROPERTY AIRPORT NAVIGATION DEVELOPMENT OPERATIONS SERVICES AND HOTELS OTHERS ELIMINATION TOTAL Traffic income 4 350.5 1 122.3 0.0 0.0 5 472.8 Other operating income 5 698.2 148.8 109.2 97.0 6 053.2 Inter-segment income 113.4 814.2 21.0 600.5 (1 549.1) 0.0 Total income 10 162.1 2 085.2 130.2 697.5 -1 549.1 11 526.0 Employee benefits expense 1 645.9 1 368.6 0.0 468.6 3 483.1 Other operating expenses 3 583.5 593.2 10.4 729.4 4 916.5 Inter-segment expenses 1 364.4 105.0 (1.0) 80.6 (1 549.1) 0.0 Total expenses 6 593.9 2 066.8 9.5 1 278.6 -1 549.1 8 399.6 EBITDA 3 568.2 18.4 120.7 -581.1 3 126.4 Depreciation and amortisation 1 716.4 90.3 36.4 46.1 1 889.1 Operating profit/(loss) 1 851.9 -71.9 84.4 -627.2 0.0 1 237.3 Assets 32 567.9 705.0 830.1 152.7 34 255.7 Sales between segments are according to the arm's length principle. The revenue from external parties reported to group management is measured consistent with that in the income statement. Revenue of approximately 2.6 billions, 1.7 billions and 1.5 billions, total 5.8 billions (2017: NOK 2.5 billions, 1.6 billions and 1.4 billions, total 5.6 billions) and 49 per cent (2017: 49 per cent) of total operating income are derived from three main customers. Revenue from the first customer is attributable to Oslo Airport, Bergen Airport, Stavanger Airport and Trondheim Airport. Revenue from the two other customers are attributable to all segments. 82 AVINOR AS NOTE 4 Operating income and other income All amounts in MNOK REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS regulations. The take-off charge is calculated based on the weight of the air craft, the terminal charge on the number of passengers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was implemented departed and the security charge on the number of passenger on 1 January 2018 using the full retrospective method. The impleon the actual flight less passengers in transit. Air navigation mentation of the standard has not led to changes in the company charges includes en route charges for services provided during or the group's recognition of revenues in 2018, see note 25. the in-flight/en route stage of the flight in Norwegian air space of which Avinor is responsible, and terminal navigation charges for Traffic income, income from sale of goods and services and services related to monoring and control during take-off, landing income from sale of property is recognized to reflect the transfer and movement to/from gate. The en route charge is calculated of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that based on the weight of the air craft in combination with the disreflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be tans travelled, while the terminal navigation charge is calculated entitled in exchange for those goods or services. based on the weight of the air craft. The traffic charges are invoiced when the actual flight is carried RENTAL INCOME out, in accordance with regulations set by the Ministry of Transport and Communication. Normally the charges are invoiced weekly Revenue from property leases with fixed lease payment is recogwith payment terms of 30 days. The en route charges are collected nised in the period the services are provided, using a straight-line by Eurocontrol on behalf of the member countries. basis over the term of the contract. Revenue from property leases with revenue-based lease payments is recognised when it is earned. Other operating income Avinor AS and the group have income from sale of goods and Traffic income services directly to the customer or through rental income from Traffic income encompasses all charges related to infrastructure the same use ot the areas. Encompasses duty free, kiosk, parking, and services necessary to carry out flights to/from Norway as shops, services, refreshments, advertising, aviation fuel, handling well as domestic flights and is considered as a whole as one delivservices, hotels and infrastructure etc. ery obligation. En route charges will in addition also encompass flights across Norwegian air space. The delivery obligation is Revenue from contracts with customers satisfied when actual the flight is carried out. Includes both cash and credit sale. The credit sale is invoiced consecutivly with payment term 30 days from invoice date. Traffic income encompasses airport charges and air navigation charges. Airport charges includes takeoff charges for essential Rental income services/infrastructure for operating a departure from one of Includes fixed lease paymets and revenue-based lease payments, Avinor’s airports, terminal charges for essential infrastructure and based on lease agreements entered into, and consecutivly reports provision of services to passengers on arrival, at departure, during of revenue. Fixed lease payments are invoiced in advance and transit, or corresponding flight services at Avinor’s airports and recognised when earned. Revenue-based lease payments are security charges for essential services/infrastructure for carrying reported and invoiced weekly. Payment term is normally 30 days out security checks at Avinor’s airports in line with applicable from invoice date. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 83 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Traffic income Takeoff charges 1 158.0 1 120.0 1 162.3 1 123.7 Terminal charges 1 237.0 1 238.5 1 241.4 1 242.6 En route charges 0.0 0.0 1 106.7 1 122.3 Security charges 1 400.8 1 390.2 1 406.5 1 395.6 Terminal navigation charges 596.2 588.6 596.2 588.6 Total traffic income 4 392.0 4 337.3 5 513.1 5 472.8 Other operating income Revenue from contracts with customers: Duty free 141.0 140.5 141.0 140.5 Parking 35.6 124.0 35.7 124.1 Other 659.9 886.0 770.2 959.4 Total 836.5 1 150.5 946.9 1 224.0 Rental income: Duty free 2 708.6 2 522.7 2 708.6 2 522.7 Parking 931.6 814.6 931.6 814.6 Other 1 527.9 1 394.2 1 624.0 1 491.9 Total 5 168.1 4 731.5 5 264.2 4 829.2 Total other operating income 6 004.6 5 882.0 6 211.1 6 053.2 Total income from contracts with customers 5 228.5 5 487.8 6 460.0 6 696.8 Total rental income 5 168.1 4 731.5 5 264.2 4 829.2 Total operating income 10 396.6 10 219.3 11 724.2 11 526.0 84 AVINOR AS NOTE 5 Salaries and personnel costs, number of employees, remunerations All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Salaries and personnel costs Salaries 1 535.2 1 507.2 2 586.2 2 521.0 Payroll tax 236.5 230.2 377.3 377.5 Pension costs 328.2 271.8 577.6 460.0 Other personnel costs 81.8 76.5 124.7 124.6 Total 2 181.7 2 085.7 3 665.8 3 483.1 Reduction of total salaries and personnel costs: Salaries and personnel costs recognised in the balance sheet 70.2 50.3 156.8 128.6 Average number of man-years employed 2 072 2 128 3 179 3 185 Group management: The group management consists of the group CEO and the managing director of each division and the largest subsidiary in addition to the managing directors of each corporate staff. 2018 OTHER ESTIMATED AMOUNT IN NOK BOARD FEE SALARY BENEFITS PENSION COST TOTAL Group management Dag Falk-Petersen 0 2 840 958 26 779 853 857 3 721 594 Øyvind Hasaas 0 2 164 490 23 156 778 307 2 965 954 Aslak Sverdrup 0 1 758 589 13 728 322 070 2 094 387 Leif Anker Lorentzen 0 1 717 919 11 956 431 467 2 161 342 Marit Helene Stigen (from 01.02.2018) 0 1 517 681 19 039 286 585 1 823 305 Mari Hermansen 0 1 771 431 33 507 485 937 2 290 874 Petter Johannessen 0 1 886 115 34 172 601 899 2 522 185 Anders Kirsebom 0 2 122 586 18 610 471 686 2 612 882 Thorgeir Landevaag (from 01.08.2018) 0 1 723 598 10 012 238 438 1 972 048 Jon Sjølander (until 01.08.2018) 0 1 915 225 24 306 461 706 2 401 237 Margrethe Snekkerbakken 0 2 086 933 15 052 504 826 2 606 812 Egil Thompson 0 1 780 232 25 155 463 043 2 268 431 Stine Ramstad Westby 0 1 769 988 17 696 345 126 2 132 811 Total 0 25 055 746 273 168 6 244 947 31 573 861 Board Anne Carine Tanum (from 01.07.2018) 239 000 0 0 0 239 000 Ola Mørkved Rinnan (until 30.06.2018) 217 250 365 0 0 217 615 Ola H. Strand 271 750 3 709 0 0 275 459 Herlof Nilssen 261 000 0 0 0 261 000 Linda Bernander Silseth 234 500 374 0 0 234 874 Eli Skrøvset 285 750 0 0 0 285 750 Olav Aadal 219 000 1 602 019 5 242 281 749 2 108 010 Heidi Anette Sørum 258 500 814 269 10 012 146 468 1 229 249 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen 231 250 1 005 604 10 012 295 159 1 542 025 Total 2 218 000 3 426 341 25 266 723 376 6 392 983 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 85 2017 OTHER ESTIMATED AMOUNT IN NOK BOARD FEE SALARY BENEFITS PENSION COST TOTAL Group management Dag Falk-Petersen 0 2 764 454 26 551 752 481 3 543 487 Øyvind Hasaas 0 2 216 518 29 234 669 043 2 914 795 Aslak Sverdrup 0 1 807 918 16 202 265 140 2 089 259 Leif Anker Lorentzen 0 1 708 024 22 364 345 686 2 076 073 Lasse Bardal (until 11.08.2017) 0 1 716 722 23 534 390 697 2 130 953 Thomas Wintervold (from 11.08.2017) 0 1 211 550 10 160 226 278 1 447 987 Mari Hermansen 0 1 709 300 27 369 428 943 2 165 612 Petter Johannessen (leave of absence from 20.08.2017) 0 1 828 981 33 490 480 666 2 343 137 Thomas Rønning Øyn (acting CFO from 20.08.2017) 0 1 221 851 10 160 221 758 1 453 770 Anders Kirsebom 0 2 047 973 20 458 405 654 2 474 085 Jon Sjølander 0 1 872 016 14 634 436 582 2 323 232 Margrethe Snekkerbakken 0 1 884 101 16 446 458 075 2 358 622 Egil Thompson 0 1 717 910 27 234 429 159 2 174 303 Stine Ramstad Westby 0 1 698 541 19 832 291 659 2 010 032 Total 0 25 405 858 297 670 5 801 820 31 505 348 Board Ola Mørkved Rinnan 430 750 0 0 0 430 750 Ola H. Strand 278 000 0 0 0 278 000 Tone Merethe Lindberg (until 29.05.2017) 112 250 0 0 0 112 250 Herlof Nilssen 261 500 0 0 0 261 500 Linda Bernander Silseth 223 000 0 0 0 223 000 Eli Skrøvset 280 500 0 0 0 280 500 Per Erik Nordsveen (until 26.09.2017) 147 583 751 373 5 768 88 602 993 326 Grete Ovnerud (until 26.09.2017) 168 666 979 045 5 417 251 437 1 404 566 Olav Aadal (from 26.09.2017) 2 500 1 530 170 5 417 181 691 1 719 778 Heidi Anette Sørum 237 000 745 047 10 160 127 844 1 120 050 Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen 219 750 962 332 10 160 234 444 1 426 686 Total 2 361 499 4 967 968 36 922 884 018 8 250 406 On termination or changes in conditions of employment or board appointment no obligations exist to give the group management or the board any distinct compensation, beyond what is stated in note 6. Nor are there any arrangements concerning bonuses, profit sharing or share-based payments. No loans or guarantees have been given to the members of the group management or the board. None of the members of the group management have received any remunerations or economic benefits from other companies in the group, other than shown in the table above. There is no additional remuneration to executives for special services other than normal operations, see note 6. 86 AVINOR AS NOTE 6 Declaration on the determination of salaries and other remuneration for the CEO and other executive employees THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS' DECLARATION ON ·· Marisa Luisa Ruiz Retamar, Director HR and Competence THE DETERMINATION OF SALARIES AND OTHER ·· Kresten Lyngstad, CFO REMUNERATION FOR THE CEO AND OTHER EXECUTIVE ·· Anne-Kr. Aagaard Chavez, Director Safety and Quality EMPLOYEES OF THE AVINOR GROUP 2018 ·· Geir Ove Heir, Director Remote Tower Center According to article 8 of the company's articles of association, Svalbard Lufthavn AS: the Board of Directors shall prepare a declaration concerning the ·· Carl Einar Ianssen, Managing Director determination of salaries and other remuneration for the senior management. This declaration shall be included as a note in the 2. Declaration's validity annual accounts. The declaration shall contain the contents The declaration applies for the coming financial year, ref. article specified in section 6-16a of the Public Limited Companies Act, 8 of the articles of association and section 6-16a (2) of the Public and shall in addition give an account of how the 'Government's Limited Companies Act. The Group's Board of Directors will policy for the remuneration of leading personnel in state-owned use the principles described in this declaration as the basis for enterprises and companies' is followed up in the company's determining the remuneration of the CEO and in its assessment wholly owned subsidiaries. The declaration shall be handled at the and monitoring of the CEO's determination of remuneration of company's ordinary general meeting. Reference is made to section executive employees. 5-6 third paragraph of the Public Limited Companies Act and the Government's policy for the remuneration of leading personnel in 3. The main principles of the Group's state-owned enterprises and companies, as set out by the Ministry executive employee remuneration policy of Industry and Fisheries, effective as from 13.2.2015. Avinor's executive remuneration policy has to comply with the Government's policy for the remuneration of leading personnel 1. Employees covered by the declaration in state-owned enterprises and companies (as set out by the This declaration covers executive employees of the Group; Avinor Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, effective as from 13.2.2016). AS and the wholly owned subsidiaries Avinor Flysikring AS and Executive remuneration in the Group should comprise a competSvalbard Lufthavn AS. At 1 January 2019 , the Group's executive itive but not leading salary when compared to similar companies. management team comprised the following employees, who are covered by this declaration: 3.1 Salary The main element of the Group's remuneration packages must be Avinor AS: a fixed basic salary. ·· Dag Falk-Petersen, CEO ·· Petter Johannessen, CFO 3.2 Directors' remuneration ·· Mari Hermansen, Executive Vice President HR, No remuneration is paid to executive employees for board Legal and Business support appointments in other companies in the Avinor Group. ·· Egil Thompson, Executive Vice President Communications, Brand and Public Relations 3.3 Benefits in kind ·· Margrethe Snekkerbakken, Executive Vice President Strategy, Executive employees shall receive the benefits in kind that are Safety and Environment common for comparable positions. These may include a car ·· Thorgeir Landevaag, Executive Vice President allowance, free newspapers/magazines, free phone, laptop, Regional and Local Airports Division printer and free broadband service. ·· Øyvind Hasaas, Airport Director Oslo Airport ·· Marit Helene Stigen, Airport Director In the CEO's agreement, a car allowance may be replaced with a Trondheim Airport Værnes company car within the framework set by the Board. ·· Leif A. Lorentzen, Airport Director Stavanger Airport Sola ·· Aslak Sverdrup, Airport Director Bergen Airport Flesland 3.4 Performance pay ·· Stine R. Westby, Executive Vice President A performance pay scheme may be established for executive Operations and Infrastructure employees based on individual targets. There must be a clear correlation between performance pay targets and the Group's Avinor Flysikring AS: targets. Any scheme will be structured in accordance with the ·· Anders Kirsebom, Managing Director guidelines specified in the owner’s statement. ·· Jan-Gunnar Pedersen, Director Business Area En-Route ·· Snorre Andresen, Director Business Area Tower 3.5 Extraordinary lump sum payment and Approach Services for exceptional performance ·· Ellen Lystad, Director Technology Services A lump sum payment may be awarded to executive employees ·· Håkan Olsson, Director Projects following exceptional performance beyond what may be ·· Tor-Øivind Skogseth, Assistent Managing Director expected in the relevant position, in connection with defined and Director Customers and Public Relations activities of major strategic importance. ·· Jan Østby, Director Remote Services COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 87 There must be a clear connection between the exceptional For senior executives aged up to 50: performance which have caused the lump sum payment and ·· 15 per cent of pensionable income from 12G to 18G and the company’s goals. The scheme is time limited in the sense ·· 10 per cent of pensionable income over 18G that it concerns a concrete lump sum payment. The lump sum payment must be approved by the group’s Board of Directors When moving up to a new rate following a birthday, this takes following nomination by the CEO and after discussion in the effect from the first date of the month following the birthday. HR, Compensation and HSE committee. The scheme is not an ordinary bonus plan, in which the management may expect The employer has the full right to manage their pension scheme bonus payments if certain milestones or criteria are met. General for salaries exceeding 12G. guidelines have been established for the scheme in which maximum amounts for such payments are set. Executive employees appointed after 13.2.2015 are only entitled to be a member of the Group’s general pension plan. As at 31.12.2018 4. Options and share programmes this applies to three members of the Group executive management. No options or similar schemes will be established in the company. No share programme involving share-based remuneration Annual disability pension amounts to (100 per cent disability) will be established in the company. 38.4 per cent of salaries between 12G and 27G. The full annual disability pension presupposes that the insured at retirement will 5. Pension plans get a service period of at least 20 years. If the length of services is Executive employees shall participate in the Group's general less, the disability pension will be reduced proportionally. pension plan, a defined benefit plan in Statens Pensjonskasse (the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund)(closed as at 1 January 6. Termination and severance pay 2019) or the new defined contribution pension scheme. The basis There is a three-month notice period applicable to both parties for calculating pension entitlements shall not exceed 12G (where G calculated from the first day of the month after notice is given. = National Insurance Scheme's basic amount). The terms shall be Notice shall be given in writing. similar to the terms that apply for other company employees. The age limit is 70 years. For most of the executive employees; members The CEO and Managing Directors of subsidiaries have waived of the Group's executive management and Managing Director of their employment protection under the Norwegian Working Avinor Flysikring AS the age limit is 67 years. For newer members Environment Act. For these people severance pay equivalent to of the executive management the age limit is 70 years. 12 months' fixed salary may be agreed, including the salary of any notice period. Severance pay is calculated on the basis of the In the Agreement with the Group’s executive management and employee's regular monthly salary at the time of termination. No Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring AS concluded before the holiday pay is accrued on the basis of the severance pay beyond guidelines from 15.2.2015, a defined-contribution retirement penthe salary during the notice period. sion scheme for salaries exceeding 12G have been established, inclusive a disability pension scheme. The severance package, for those employed after 01.01.2015, will be reduced by a proportional amount calculated on the basis of For this group the retirement pension is contribution-based for the new annual income in the event of appointment to a new salaries exeeding 12G with different rates dependent on age and position or if an income is received from an enterprise of which are administered through the company's operating budget until the employee concerned is an active owner. further notice. Current personnel are divided into four age groups. The pension basis for contributions is the agreed fixed salary, and The employee is only entitled to severance pay in excess of their payment will commence once the retirement age has been reached salary during the notice period if they accept the termination, in accordance with the individual agreement. Payment of the leave at the request of the employer, and do not submit any claim supplementary pension is executed by Avinor's payroll department in relation to the rules of the Norwegian Working Environment monthly once the age limit of 67 is reached. A condition of payAct with regard to protection against dismissal, etc. ment is that the employee has resigned from their position in the company. If the employee retires from the Group before reaching Severance pay may be withheld if there are ground for dismissal, or their pensionable age, the severance agreement is to include a date if irregularities or omissions are found during the period in which for when payment of the pension is to start. severance pay is to be given, which may result in liability for damages or the employees being prosecuted for violation of the law. The following contribution plan applies: The CEO has concluded such an agreement dated 14 January For senior executives aged 60 and over: 2011. A notice period of three months and a severance payment ·· 30 per cent of pensionable income from 12G to 18G and of 12 months have been agreed, which become payable upon ·· 25 per cent of pensionable income over 18G termination by the Company. The agreement contains provisions for the deduction of income from a new employer, and ceases if For senior executives aged 55 to 60: the employee is entitled to a disability benefit or retirement pen·· 25 per cent of pensionable income from 12G to 18G and sion under the agreement. The CEO is not entitled to pay after ·· 20 per cent of pensionable income over 18G termination of employment if the employment is terminated due to circumstances which may result in grounds for dismissal. For senior executives aged 50 to 55: ·· 20 per cent of pensionable income from 12G to 18G and ·· 15 per cent of pensionable income over 18G 88 AVINOR AS Members of the Group’s executive management have agreed final The base salary of the Managing Director of Avinor Flysikring AS remuneration figures in their contracts of employment should was adjusted by 3.4 per cent. Other senior personnel in Avinor their employment be terminated by the employer. For those Flysikring AS was adjusted in average 3.4 per cent. The wage members of the of the Group’s executive management employed settlement is based on evaluation of performance. before the scheme was established in 2015, this has been defined as 12 months of their regular fixed salary. For three members The fixed salary of the managing director of Svalbard Lufthavn of the Group’s executive management, remuneration has been AS was adjusted by 11.5 per cent. The adjustment was due to defined as “reasonable final remuneration determined at the time approval as operational manager and performance rating. of termination” based on their regular monthly salary. Final remuneration will only be paid if the director accepts the termination The total cost of the contribution-based pension scheme for and does not commence proceedings under the termination salary exceeding 12G for senior personnel before 13 February regulations of the Norwegian Working Environment Act, etc. 2015 was NOK 2,692,045 in 2018. The scheme is administered by Avinor through day-to-day operations. The premium is not taxaFor other executive employees, an advanced agreement for sevble and dutiable. The scheme is closed for new senior personnel erance pay with finally determined compensation at retirement, after 13 February 2015. can not be entered into. Instead, an advance agreement with a reasonable severance pay may be agreed on, effective only if the The individual's total pension cost is stated in the notes to the employee is not contesting dismissal. These agreements apply financial statements. correspondingly to the agreements applicable to the CEO and Managing Directors of subsidiaries. The Managing Director of Lump sum payments of NOK 150,000 have been awarded for Svalbard Lufthavn AS has ordinary protection against dismissal exceptional performance in connection with project manageand no clause regarding severance pay. ment. This concern Margrethe Snekkerbakken. 7. Executive remuneration policy and implementation of The Board's declaration concerning the determination of salaries the guidelines in the preceding year and other remuneration was published for the first time in The salary policy for executive employees in 2018 has been the 2011 financial year. Executive remuneration packages are conducted in accordance with the above guidelines and the reviewed by the Board on an annual basis. Executive remuneraguidelines discussed at the Annual General Meeting on 13 June tion agreements entered into before this point in time shall not 2018. This applies both to Avinor AS, Avinor Flysikring AS and be negatively affected by this declaration. Svalbard Lufthavn AS. The remuneration and other benefits received by executive In connection with the wage settlement, the CEO's fixed salary employees in 2018 are provided in note 5 of the annual financial was adjusted by 3.4 per cent. The basic salary of other senior statement for 2018. personnel in Avinor AS was adjusted in average by 3.4 per cent. NOTE 7 Other operating expenses All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Rent buildings/land 55.2 72.2 44.9 58.4 Management/maintenance buildings 749.2 745.5 786.1 791.9 Repairs, maintenance operational materials 390.7 400.2 434.8 450.6 Control/security/guard services 902.5 939.1 909.0 945.5 Meteorological services 3.5 3.2 43.7 43.3 Consulting services 273.2 310.9 289.1 345.5 Other external services 662.1 695.9 692.0 724.2 Other operating expenses 1 331.8 1 403.4 595.8 657.3 Total 4 368.2 4 570.4 3 795.4 4 016.7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 89 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS AVINOR AS: REMAINING PERIOD LESS THAN BETWEEN OVER INTRA-GROUP 1 YEAR 1-5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL INCLUDED IN TOTAL 31 December 2018 Rental agreement HQ Oslo 21.8 88.8 206.7 317.3 0.0 Rental agreement Bodø Airport 18.0 75.7 40.2 133.9 0.0 Rental agreements other premises 22.5 93.9 109.0 225.4 195.2 Other rental agreements 3.6 6.0 17.6 27.2 6.2 Total rental payments at nominal value 65.9 264.4 373.5 703.8 201.4 Total rental payments at present value 65.1 242.4 288.0 595.5 175.3 AVINOR GROUP: REMAINING PERIOD LESS THAN BETWEEN OVER 1 YEAR 1-5 YEARS 5 YEARS TOTAL 31 December 2018 Rental agreement HQ Oslo 28.2 115.9 232.3 376.4 Rental agreement Bodø Airport 18.0 75.7 40.2 133.9 Rental agreements other premises 6.2 22.0 26.5 54.7 Other rental agreements 2.2 6.3 15.3 23.8 Total rental payments at nominal value 54.6 219.9 314.3 588.8 Total rental payments at present value 54.0 202.0 240.7 496.7 For accounting policies concerning operating leases, see note 12. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Auditor's fees Auditor's fee fixed charge (VAT not included): Statutory audit fee 1.7 1.4 2.2 1.8 Other auditors's fees charged to profit and loss (VAT not included): Other attestation services 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 Tax advisory services 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other services 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Total 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.3 90 AVINOR AS NOTE 8 Impact on earnings – Terminal 2 project All amounts in MNOK As a result of the development of Gardermoen (Terminal 2 project) the income statement includes charges for extra costs related to the maintenance of normal operations during the construction period, as well as costs related to the scrapping of assets, including higher depreciation as a result of a re-assessed economic life. The new terminal areas were fully operational as from April 2017. SPECIFICATION 2018 2017 Employee benefits expense Payroll and other personnel expenses for operating personnel 0.0 20.6 Total 0.0 20.6 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges Higher depreciation as the result of scrapping portions of the terminal 0.0 4.5 Total 0.0 4.5 Other operating expenses Operational coordination 0.0 35.9 Security 0.0 5.4 More bussing 0.0 0.8 Consulting services 0.0 1.2 Staff/support 0.0 27.5 Demolishing expenses existing plant 0.0 35.3 Additional contract costs related to maintenance of normal operations during the construction period 0.0 29.2 Other 0.0 0.4 Total 0.0 135.7 Total 0.0 160.8 NOTE 9 Other expenses All amounts in MNOK The group uses derivative financial instruments related to the purchase of energy and foreign currency. For energy, forward energy contracts are purchased at Nasdaq OMX. None of these derivatives qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are, depending on whether the derivative is related to operating or financing activities, recognised in the income statement within 'changes in value and other losses/gains net' or within 'finance cost'. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2018 2017 2018 2017 Other expenses Pension see note 16 0.0 170.0 -128.8 415.0 Changes in value and other losses/gains net -66.1 0.1 -71.0 -12.8 Total -66.1 170.1 -199.8 402.2 Changes in value and other losses/gains net: Changes in value unrealised (note 14) -49.4 -4.4 -47.9 0.2 Changes in value realised energy contracts -20.9 2.8 -22.7 2.9 Foreign currency translation gains/losses 4.2 1.7 -0.4 -15.9 Total -66.1 0.1 -71.0 -12.8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 91 NOTE 10 Finance income and costs All amounts in MNOK Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Accounting principles regarding finance items are described in note 14. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2018 2017 2018 2017 Finance income Interest income on short-term bank deposits 28.4 58.3 31.6 59.7 Interest income on loans to group companies 10.6 6.2 0.0 0.0 Group contributions and dividends received 0.9 1 000.0 1.2 6.0 Gains on financial instruments 0.0 4.1 0.0 22.4 Total 39.9 1 068.6 32.8 88.1 Finance costs Interest expense on bank borrowings 630.0 650.1 640.0 680.4 Interest expense on loans from group companies 19.9 28.0 0.0 0.0 Interest expense on others 1.3 3.8 1.4 4.2 Other borrowing expenses 9.7 37.2 10.0 37.3 Borrowing costs capitalised (note 12) -24.8 -38.2 -37.8 -47.7 Foreign currency translation gains/losses -0.3 -3.2 -0.3 -3.2 Net fair value gains/losses on bank borrowings including derivatives 22.5 -14.5 22.5 -14.5 Fair value loss on financial instruments (note 14) interest rate swaps: cash flow hedges, transfer from equity 0.0 14.6 20.4 14.6 interest rate swaps: fair value hedges -22.5 14.5 -22.5 14.5 Total 635.8 692.3 633.7 685.6 Finance income/(costs) net -595.9 376.3 -600.9 -597.5 92 AVINOR AS NOTE 11 Income tax expense and deferred income tax All amounts in MNOK The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred Net deferred tax asset tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the The group has significant temporary differences between the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and its tax base. This income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised has resulted in a significant deferred tax asset. An analysis made in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. of the group's tax position shows that it is probable that this asset may be utilised by the group. Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of Loss carried forward assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial Svalbard Lufthavn AS have a loss carried forward of MNOK 120,0. statements. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates The tax effect of the loss is not included owing to the uncertainty and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the regarding the utilization of the loss. balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax Change in tax rate liability is settled. The tax rate was changed from January 1 2019 from 23 per cent to 22 per cent. Correspondingly, the change from 2017 to 2018 was Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that from 24 per cent to 23 per cent. it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred income tax assets are assessed against future taxable income and are evaluated separately. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP SPECIFICATION 2018 2017 2018 2017 Income tax expense Current tax on profit for the year 241.3 42.7 290.9 115.4 Current tax on adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 10.8 0.3 10.8 Current tax on group contributions 0.4 4.6 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax on origination and reversal of temporary differences 27.0 89.2 50.2 21.7 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -14.6 -8.5 -14.6 -7.4 Total 254.3 138.8 326.8 140.5 Effective tax rate reconciliation 23 (24)% of profit before tax 267.9 377.8 343.3 152.1 Effect of adjustments prior years 0.2 -4.2 -2.9 -7.7 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -14.6 -8.5 -14.6 -7.4 Group contribution received (not subject to tax ) 0.0 -235.4 0.0 0.0 Dividends received 0.8 0.0 1.0 -1.4 Permanent differences 23 (24)% 0.0 9.0 0.0 4.9 Income tax expense 254.3 138.8 326.8 140.5 Effective tax rate 21.8 % 8.8 % 21.9 % 22.2 % COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 93 AVINOR AS: DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ADAPTED TO CHARGED/ ADAPTED TO NEW ANNUAL CHARGED/ CREDITED TO NEW ANNUAL TAX RATE AT CREDITED OTHER COMAT TAX RATE AT 31 DECEMBER TO THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 31 DECEMBER 2017 STATEMENT INCOME 2018 2018 Receivables -1.7 -0.7 0.0 -2.4 -2.3 Non-current assets -540.3 48.2 0.0 -492.1 -470.7 Borrowings -307.5 -23.9 0.0 -331.4 -317.0 Provisions -47.8 -26.4 0.0 -74.1 -70.9 Pension benefits -521.0 -8.9 -111.7 -641.6 -613.7 Group contributions (payables) 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.4 0.4 Profit and loss account -13.8 3.2 0.0 -10.6 -10.2 Derivative financial instruments 280.6 35.3 42.9 358.7 343.1 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 151.7 27.0 -68.4 -1 193.1 -1 141.2 Change in tax rate, deferred tax asset reduction 50.1 52.0 Presented as: Other comprehensive income expense 58.6 66.6 Profit and loss expense -8.5 -14.6 CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED TO AT CREDITED OTHER COMAT 1 JANUARY MERGER/ TO THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2017 DEMERGER STATEMENT INCOME 2017 Receivables 0.0 0.0 -1.8 0.0 -1.8 Non-current assets -689.4 0.3 125.3 0.0 -563.8 Borrowings -121.2 0.0 -199.7 0.0 -320.9 Provisions -74.2 0.0 24.4 0.0 -49.9 Pension benefits -396.4 -0.1 -54.6 -92.6 -543.7 Group contributions (payables) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Profit and loss account -8.4 0.0 -6.0 0.0 -14.4 Derivative financial instruments 117.4 0.0 201.6 -26.2 292.8 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 172.2 0.2 89.2 -118.9 -1 201.7 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months -1 411.6 -1 382.8 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months -73.2 -49.5 -1 484.8 -1 432.3 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 343.1 280.6 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.4 0.0 343.5 280.6 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 141.2 -1 151.7 94 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP: DEFERRED TAX ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ADAPTED TO CHARGED/ ADAPTED TO NEW ANNUAL CHARGED/ CREDITED NEW ANNUAL TAX RATE AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT TAX RATE AT 31 DECEMBER TO THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 31 DECEMBER 2017 STATEMENT INCOME 2018 2018 Receivables -2.0 -2.0 0.0 -4.0 -3.8 Non-current assets -484.7 51.5 0.0 -433.3 -414.5 Borrowings -307.5 -23.9 0.0 -331.4 -317.0 Provisions -51.0 -27.0 0.0 -78.0 -74.6 Pension benefits -925.1 13.7 -152.9 -1 064.5 -1 018.2 Profit and loss account -14.3 3.0 0.0 -11.3 -10.8 Derivative financial instruments 273.5 35.0 48.7 357.3 341.7 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 511.2 50.2 -104.2 -1 565.2 -1 497.6 Change in tax rate, deferred tax asset reduction 65.5 67.8 Presented as: Other comprehensive income expense 72.9 82.4 Profit and loss expense -7.4 -14.6 CHARGED/ CHARGED/ CREDITED AT CREDITED TO OTHER COMAT 1 JANUARY TO THE INCOME PREHENSIVE 31 DECEMBER 2017 STATEMENT INCOME 2017 Receivables -0.1 -2.0 0.0 -2.1 Non-current assets -635.8 130.0 0.0 -505.8 Borrowings -121.2 -199.7 0.0 -320.9 Provisions -80.9 27.7 0.0 -53.2 Pension benefits -620.5 -128.4 -216.4 -965.3 Profit and loss account -8.6 -6.3 0.0 -14.9 Derivative financial instruments 108.3 200.4 -23.3 285.4 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 358.8 21.7 -239.7 -1 576.8 2018 2017 Deferred tax assets Deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than 12 months -1 819.4 -1 797.5 Deferred tax asset to be recovered within 12 months -78.5 -53.0 -1 897.9 -1 850.5 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax liability to be recovered after more than 12 months 400.5 339.3 Deferred tax liability to be recovered within 12 months 0.0 0.0 400.5 339.3 Deferred tax asset(-)/liability (net) -1 497.4 -1 511.2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 95 NOTE 12 Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment All amounts in MNOK INTANGIBLE ASSETS straight-line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives. Method of amortisation and estimated useful life is reviewed at Separately acquired intangible assets are shown at historical cost. least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in method and/or Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised estimated useful life is accounted for as changes in estimates. at fair value at the acquisition date. Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortisation. Computer software Costs associated with purchasing new computer software are Internally generated intangible assets, with the exception of develrecognised as an intangible asset, unless it is a part of the acquiopment costs that are recognised as intangible assets, are recogised sition of hardware. Amortisation is calculated using the straightas an expense as incurred. Development costs are recognised as an line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful life, intangible asset when all the criterias in IAS 38 are met. normally 5 years. Cost associated with maintaining computer software programs or maintaining future usage of computer The useful life of an intangible asset is either finite or indefinite. software programs are expensed unless the changes enchance the Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortised using the future usage of the program. AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS, AIRSPACE ORGANIZATION AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP At 1 January 2017 Cost 80.5 303.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -40.5 -194.9 Net book amount 39.9 108.8 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book amount 39.9 108.8 Additions 0.0 17.2 Amortisation charge -4.5 -13.2 Closing net book amount 35.4 112.8 At 31 December 2017 Cost 80.5 321.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -45.0 -208.1 Net book amount 35.4 112.8 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book amount 35.4 112.8 Additions 0.0 6.9 Amortisation charge -4.5 -16.3 Closing net book amount 30.9 103.4 At 31 December 2018 Cost 80.5 327.9 Accumulated amortisation and impairment -49.5 -224.4 Net book value 30.9 103.4 Estimated useful life 10 years 10 years Method of depreciation Straight-line Straight-line 96 AVINOR AS PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Operating leases: Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownProperty, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less depreership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. ciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributPayments made under operating leases are charged to the income able to the acquisition of the items. Cost may also include transfers statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. from equity of any gains/losses on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment. The group as a lessor Operating leases: Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying amount A substantial part of Avinor’s commercial income consists of or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it rental income , which are accounted for according to IAS 17. is probable that that future economic benefits associated with The rental income consists of fixed amounts as well as revenue the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be based parts, which are recognized based on the time of delivery measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance are charged during the period of the lease. The group presents rental assets as to the income statement during the financial period in which non-current assets in the balance sheet. they are incurred. Borrowing costs incurred for the construction of any qualifying GOVERNMENT GRANTS asset are capitalised during the period of time that is required to complete and prepare the asset for its intended use. Each A government grant is recognised at fair value when there is reamaterial component of an asset is evaluated separately for the sonable assurance that the group will comply with the conditions object of depreciation. The materiality is assessed from the cost attached to it, and that the grant will be received. Government of a component in relation to the cost of the whole asset. Land grants are recognised as income over the periods necessary to and housing are not depreciated. Depreciation on other assets is match them with the related costs which they are intended to calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their cost to compensate, on a systematic basis. Government grants related their residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows: to assets are presented in the statement of financial position by deducting the grant to arrive at the carrying amount of the asset. Buildings 10 50 years Infrastructure 5 40 years Runways and other related assets 15 50 years IMPAIRMENT OF NON-FINANCIAL ASSETS Vehicles 10 20 years Other non-current assets 5 15 years Assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and recoverable. The difference between the carrying amount and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. recoverable amount is recognised as an impairment loss in the Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the income statement. The recoverable amount is the highest of the proceeds with the carrying amount. cash-generating unit's fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairimpairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment ment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that at each reporting date. the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the purpose of assessing impairment the whole group is defined as two cash generating units (CGU’s), see note 2. The LEASES assessment requires a great degree of professional judgement. Among other things, an assessment has to be made of how long The group as a lessee a period of time the impairment may last and the difference Finance leases: between the fair value and the carrying amount, in addition to Leases where the group has substantially all the risks and the financial position and expected development in the market, rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. The group including operating and financing cash flows. have no Finance leases. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 97 AVINOR AS RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS VEHICLES EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2017 Cost 1 176.2 19 141.0 12 246.7 1 319.3 6 065.7 3 017.1 42 966.0 Accumulated depreciation -1.7 -5 806.3 -3 629.3 -585.4 -3 844.8 -1 270.8 -15 138.3 Net book amount 1 174.5 13 334.7 8 617.4 733.9 2 220.9 1 746.3 27 827.7 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book amount 1 174.5 13 334.7 8 617.4 733.9 2 220.9 1 746.3 27 827.7 Additions 26.7 3 979.8 754.6 108.5 1 166.4 373.9 6 409.9 Disposals -0.4 -4.6 -0.3 -2.3 -8.3 0.0 -15.9 Depreciation charge 0.0 -681.2 -404.3 -65.5 -464.2 -124.9 -1 740.1 Closing net book amount 1 200.8 16 628.7 8 967.4 774.6 2 914.8 1 995.3 32 481.6 At 31 December 2017 Cost 1 202.5 23 114.2 12 988.7 1 389.1 7 137.2 3 334.0 49 165.7 Accumulated depreciation -1.7 -6 485.5 -4 021.3 -614.5 -4 222.4 -1 338.7 -16 684.1 Net book amount 1 200.8 16 628.7 8 967.4 774.6 2 914.8 1 995.3 32 481.6 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book amount 1 200.8 16 628.7 8 967.4 774.6 2 914.8 1 995.3 32 481.6 Additions 119.3 655.5 841.6 87.7 435.2 105.5 2 244.8 Reclassification -222.8 0.0 222.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -1.5 -1.3 0.0 -4.3 -31.5 -0.5 -39.1 Depreciation charge 0.0 -784.0 -461.7 -69.8 -515.6 -108.8 -1 939.9 Closing net book amount 1 095.8 16 498.9 9 570.1 788.2 2 802.9 1 991.5 32 747.3 At 31 December 2018 Cost 1 097.5 23 693.7 14 053.0 1 401.8 7 355.1 3 396.4 50 997.5 Accumulated depreciation -1.7 -7 194.8 -4 482.9 -613.6 -4 552.2 -1 404.9 -18 250.1 Net book amount 1 095.8 16 498.9 9 570.1 788.2 2 802.9 1 991.5 32 747.3 98 AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP RUNWAYS FURNITURE, AND OTHER FITTINGS AND INFRALAND BUILDINGS RELATED ASSETS VEHICLES EQUIPMENT STRUCTURE TOTAL At 1 January 2017 Cost 1 838.4 19 633.8 11 752.6 1 401.6 7 283.5 2 656.9 44 566.8 Accumulated depreciation -1.2 -5 647.1 -3 169.6 -634.0 -4 594.2 -1 018.9 -15 065.0 Net book amount 1 837.2 13 986.7 8 583.0 767.6 2 689.3 1 638.0 29 501.8 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book amount 1 837.2 13 986.7 8 583.0 767.6 2 689.3 1 638.0 29 501.8 Additions 26.7 4 001.6 754.6 112.6 1 262.1 375.3 6 532.9 Disposals 0.0 -4.6 -0.3 -2.7 -8.3 0.0 -15.9 Depreciation charge 0.0 -724.0 -409.5 -70.2 -546.4 -125.8 -1 875.9 Closing net book amount 1 863.9 17 259.7 8 927.8 807.3 3 396.7 1 887.5 34 142.9 At 31 December 2017 Cost 1 865.1 23 628.8 12 494.7 1 473.3 8 440.1 2 975.2 50 877.2 Accumulated depreciation -1.2 -6 369.1 -3 566.9 -666.0 -5 043.4 -1 087.7 -16 734.3 Net book amount 1 863.9 17 259.7 8 927.8 807.3 3 396.7 1 887.5 34 142.9 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book amount 1 863.9 17 259.7 8 927.8 807.3 3 396.7 1 887.5 34 142.9 Additions 123.5 703.9 844.5 97.8 535.9 108.6 2 414.2 Reclassification -222.8 0.0 222.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -5.3 -1.6 0.0 -4.5 -31.7 -0.5 -43.6 Depreciation charge 0.0 -828.7 -467.0 -74.9 -606.6 -109.9 -2 087.1 Closing net book amount 1 759.3 17 133.3 9 528.1 825.7 3 294.3 1 885.7 34 426.4 At 31 December 2018 Cost 1 760.5 24 256.3 13 562.0 1 491.1 8 751.7 3 040.7 52 862.3 Accumulated depreciation -1.2 -7 123.0 -4 033.9 -665.4 -5 457.4 -1 155.0 -18 435.9 Net book amount 1 759.3 17 133.3 9 528.1 825.7 3 294.3 1 885.7 34 426.4 Estimated useful life 10 50 years 15 50 years 10 20 years 5 15 years 5 40 years Method of depreciation NA Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line Straight-line COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 99 ASSETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP At 1 January 2017 Cost 6 250.9 6 717.1 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 6 250.9 6 717.1 Year ended 31 December 2017 Opening net book amount 6 250.9 6 717.1 Additions 2 632.2 3 008.9 Reclassification -6 409.9 -6 532.9 Closing net book amount 2 473.2 3 193.1 At 31 December 2017 Cost 2 473.2 3 193.1 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 2 473.2 3 193.1 Year ended 31 December 2018 Opening net book amount 2 473.2 3 193.1 Additions 1 797.2 2 305.5 Reclassification -2 244.8 -2 670.2 Closing net book amount 2 025.6 2 828.4 At 31 December 2018 Cost 2 025.6 2 828.4 Accumulated depreciation 0.0 0.0 Net book amount 2 025.6 2 828.4 Classified as intangible 0.0 332.3 Borrowing costs fair value and value in use based on the present value of future Property plant and equipment includes borrowing costs when cash flows. Value in use is the present value of future cash flows the construction period of major asset is longer than one year. derived from existing assets (without improving or enhancing the Capitalised borrowing costs amounted to MNOK 38.2 in 2018 and performance of these assets). MNOK 47.7 in 2017. The group operates in its entirety in Norway and the present The average capitalisation rate for 2018 was 2.96 per cent value of future cash flow is therefore estimated in NOK. The (2017: 2.69 per cent). future cash flow is then discounted based on an weighted average discount rate relevant for the group's type of operations. The rate Security of return is based on 10-year Norwegian government securities Under Avinor AS's Articles of Association, assets from basic adjusted for the group's business risk. The expense related to the operations cannot be pledged as security. debt ratio part of the weighted average rate of return is based on the average market rate for the group. In the present value Basis for the measurement of estimate for 2018 the discount rate is 6.7 per cent before tax. recoverable amount – impairment evaluation Due to the materiality of the group's assets and a future high As at 31 December 2018 the measurement of recoverable amount investment level, impairment tests are carried out regularly. for the whole group is estimated based on fair value less cost to sell. Fair value is estimated based on future cash flows from The whole of Avinor group's operations have been defined as two operations, including future capacity increasing activities. cash-generating units (CGU’s), see basic principles note 2. An impairment loss is recognised if the recoverable amount of the group's assets is less than its carrying amount. The recoverable amount is the highest of the cash-generating unit's fair value less cost to sell and its value in use. The group estimates both 100 AVINOR AS The valuation is based on several assumptions. The main assumptions used in the estimation of recoverable amount are (2017 figures in brackets): 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Passenger growth (%) 2.8 (3.9) 3.5 (3.5) 4.4 (4.0) 2.4 (2.4) 2.4 (2.4) 2.2 (2.3) Consumer price index (%) 1.5 (2.0) 1.9 (2.0) 2.1 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2034 Passenger growth (%) 2.3 (2.3) 2.2 (2.2) 2.2 (2.2) 2.2 (2.2) 2.2 (2.2) 2.0-2.2 (2.0-2.2) Consumer price index (%) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) 1.5 (1.5) There is close correlation between GDP (Norwegian mainland) and passenger growth. The estimates are based on real growth in expenses. The estimates include expected investments based on the group's long-term investment plan, including existing public regulations. The expected value of operations past fifteen years is determined as a terminal value. The terminal value is based on the assumption of a constant growth of 0.0 per cent and an estimated normalised investment level. As at 31 December 2018 there are no indications that the recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount. NOTE 13 Financial risk factors All amounts in MNOK The group’s activities exposes it to a variety of financial risks: The group’s income from en route charges is exposed to foreign Market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, exchange risk. For Avinor Flysikring AS the risk is connected cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity to the transfer of the revenue to Norway. The period from the risk. The group’s overall rsik management programme seeks to determination of the exchange rate to the actual payment is minimise the volatility of the group’s financial performance. The about three months. group uses derivative financial instruments in addition to borrowings with fixed interest rates to hedge certain risk exposures. Revenue in foreign currency is sold forward to the extent that it is not hedged by cash outflow in the same currency. The group also Financial risk management is carried out by a central treasury has foreign exchange risk connected to contractual payments in department under policies approved by the board of directors. foreign currency. Group treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the group’s operating units. The board Avinor AS has as part of the hedging of larger aquisitions, entered provides written principles for overall risk management, as into forward foreign exchange contracts in connection with the well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign development of the airport terminals. These are contracts in exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative EUR for the payment of luggage handling systems, navigation financial instruments, and investment of excess liquidity. equipment, vehicles and others. Foreign exchange rate derivatives do not normally qualify for hedge accounting. For details about financial assets and liabilities including hedging, see note 14. The group has issued bond loans denominated in EUR. The loans is hedged by a combined interest rate and forward foreign exchange contract in which Avinor receives coupon payment and MARKET RISK principle amount in EUR and pay a predetermined amount in NOK at the same point in time. (i) Foreign exchange risk The group and Avinor AS are exposed to foreign exchange risk As the foreign exchange risk in overall is assessed to be limited, with respect to the value of NOK against currencies caused by the group has not estimated any sensitivities. For the notional income and expenses in foreign currency. The group uses forward principal amount of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts, contracts to reduce the foreign exchange risk in cash flow nomisee note 14. nated in foreign currency. The group and Avinor AS are primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to EUR. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 101 (ii) Interest rate risk At 31 December 2018 the group had interest rate swaps at a The group are exposed to interest rate risk through its financial face value of MNOK 8,194 (2017: MNOK 8,194), where the group activities (see note 14). Parts of the borrowings are issued at receives a variable rate and pays a fixed average rate of 3.15 per variable rates, which means that the group is influenced by the cent of face value. The group also have interest rate swaps at face changes in the interest rates. value of MNOK 1,265 (2017: MNOK 1,265) where the group pays a floating interest rate of NIBOR and fixed Euro interest rate. The objective of the group’s interest rate management is to keep The duration of the interest rate swaps are MNOK 2,490 till 2021, the volatility of future interest costs within acceptable limits. MNOK 2,530 till 2025 and MNOK 4,439 till 2027. The interest rate Group policy is to interest rate hedge all long-term loans till at least swaps are used to hedge against volatility in the P&L reportings 60 per cent of total debt at all time is hedged for at least 12 months. as a result of changes in the interest levels. The group manages its effective interest exposure risk by using All interest swaps are made as a hedge against financial risk various interest rate swaps. caused by cash flow interest rate risk. All interest swaps are carried at their fair value in the balance sheet. At 31 December 2018 approximately all interest rate swaps are adopted to the terms of specific loans and other conditions. The following table presents the group’s sensitivity to a defined When the interest rate swaps are taken into consideration, the interest rate shift as at 31 December. The simulation take into group has 85 per cent of its long-term borrowings at a fixed rate consideration all interest rate derivatives. of interest for at least 12 months. AVINOR AS CHANGES IN IMPACT ON INTEREST LEVELS IN PRE-TAX PROFIT IMPACT ON BASIS POINTS (MNOK) EQUITY (MNOK) 2018 +50 -8.0 -48.3 -50 8.0 48.3 2017 +50 -8.0 -48.3 -50 8.0 48.3 AVINOR GROUP CHANGES IN IMPACT ON INTEREST LEVELS IN PRE-TAX PROFIT IMPACT ON BASIS POINTS (MNOK) EQUITY (MNOK) 2018 +50 -8.0 -48.3 -50 8.0 48.3 2017 +50 -8.7 -45.1 -50 8.7 45.1 Based on the financial instruments at 31 December 2018, the simulation shows that if the interest rate had been 0.5 per cent higher, pretax profit for the group for the year would have been MNOK 8.0 lower (2017: MNOK 8.7). The average yield on financial instruments were as follows: 2018 (%) 2017 (%) Overdraft NA NA State Loan 1.61 1.64 Bonds 3.22 3.13 Bank Loan 3.21 3.30 The figures include interest hedging derivatives. At 31 December 2018 Avinor AS had total borrowings amounting to MNOK 21,740.7 (2017: MNOK 22,208.1) in addition to a overdraft of MNOK 0.0 (2017: MNOK 0.0). 102 AVINOR AS (iii) Power price risk The fair value of power contracts is estimated at MNOK 53.4 The group is a consumer of electrical power. Avinor AS has (2017: MNOK 3.8) based on the exchange rate at year-end. entered into financial power contracts via Nasdaq OMX to hedge parts of it’s power consumption. Sensitivity analysis of electrical power contracts at 31 December (impact on pre-tax profit (MNOK) as a consequense of a 20 per At 31 December 2018 approximately 100 per cent of 2019’s esticent increase in power price): mated consumption is covered by such contracts. The group does not apply hedge accounting to these contracts. Power purchases are made in EUR. AVINOR AS AND AVINOR GROUP MARKET VALUE IMPACT ON 31 DECEMBER PRE-TAX PROFIT 2018 53.4 43.1 2017 3.8 21.2 CREDIT RISK Classification of historical information (unimpaired trade receivables): The group’s credit risks are mainly connected to airlines and air traffic-related industries. ·· Group 1 – new customers/related parties (in the last six months) The group has credit risks attached to three main customers. ·· Group 2 – existing customers/related parties The group assesses the risk that customers cannot fulfil their ( for more than six months) with no history of default obligations as moderate. ·· Group 3 – existing customers/related parties ( for more than six months) with a history of default. All The group has guidelines to limit exposure to possible losses. amounts have been paid in full after the default. The group has not made any third-party guarantees. All intra-groups accounts and the major part part of customer receivables are classified in group 2. No financial assets have been Maximum risk exposure is illustrated by the carried amount of renegotiated during the last financial year. No part of the loans to the financial assets, including derivatives in the balance sheet. related parties is overdue or impaired. Since the opposite party in derivatives trading is normally banks and the power trade exchange, the credit risk connected to derivatives is assessed as small. The group’s assessment is that LIQUIDITY RISK the group’s maximum credit exposure is illustrated by the carried amounts of trade receivables and other short-term assets (see Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its note 14). The group does not have any material overdue trade financial obligations when they are due. The group strategy is to receivables (see note 14). meet the risk by having sufficient funds available at anytime to be able to fulfil the financial obligations when they are due, both The group’s main bank connexion has external credit rating A-1 under normal or extraordinary circumstances, without risking (short term) and A+ (long term) (Standard & Poors). unacceptable losses. The group shall have a liquidity reserve sufficient, at anytime, to maintain business for at least twelve Creditworthiness in trade receivables months without raising new loans. Unused credit facilities are and intra-group accounts in detail described in note 14. Credit risk in non-due financial instruments which have not been written down, may be evaluated by external sources (if available) The table below analyses the maturity structure of the group’s or based on previous negative credit records. financial obligations, based on contracual undisconted cash-flow. In the case where the opposite party may demand an earlier payment, the amount is presented in the earliest period the payment may be demanded. If payment may be demanded on request, the obligations are included in the first column (less than 1 month): COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 103 AVINOR AS REMAINING PERIOD 1) LESS THAN BETWEEN 1-3 BETWEEN 3-12 BETWEEN 1-5 OVER 5 1 MONTH MONTHS MONTHS YEARS YEARS TOTAL 31 December 2018 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 9.4 221.2 1 919.0 8 349.9 13 887.6 24 387.1 Other commitments 0.1 0.1 0.5 167.4 0.0 168.1 Trade payables 319.9 157.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 477.4 Other current liabilities 277.0 136.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 413.5 Total 606.4 515.3 1 919.5 8 517.3 13 887.6 25 446.1 31 December 2017 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 5.7 221.3 963.3 9 277.3 15 032.8 25 500.4 Other commitments 0.6 1.2 2.2 183.5 0.0 187.5 Trade payables 294.5 145.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 439.6 Other current liabilities 212.5 104.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 317.1 Total 513.3 472.2 965.5 9 460.8 15 032.8 26 444.6 1) Derivatives included AVINOR GROUP REMAINING PERIOD 1) LESS THAN BETWEEN 1-3 BETWEEN 3-12 BETWEEN 1-5 OVER 5 1 MONTH MONTHS MONTHS YEARS YEARS TOTAL 31 December 2018 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 9.4 221.2 1 919.0 8 349.9 13 887.6 24 387.1 Other commitments 0.8 1.7 7.6 174.0 0.0 184.1 Trade payables 359.2 176.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 536.1 Other current liabilities 279.1 137.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 416.5 Total 648.4 537.3 1 926.6 8 523.9 13 887.6 25 523.8 31 December 2017 State, bond and bank borrowings 1) 14.8 225.3 1 030.3 9 550.4 15 399.1 26 219.9 Other commitments 1.0 2.0 9.3 189.1 0.0 201.4 Trade payables 349.3 172.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 521.3 Other current liabilities 221.4 109.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 330.4 Total 586.4 508.4 1 039.6 9 739.5 15 399.1 27 273.0 1) Derivatives included See note 14 for information about long term loans. CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND EQUITY In addition to refinancing of the borrowings described above, the The main objective of the group’s management of capital group will, the next few years, require financing of new infrastructure is to ensure that the group’s main business objectives structure in the form of capacity expansion measures. The gross are reached within sound financial limits. financing requirement includes refinancing of existing borrowings as described above and other plenned investment activities. The paramount financial objectives (sound financial limits) are the following: OTHER INFORMATION 1. Equity ratio: 40 per cent (according to article 5 of the company's Articles of Association) The fair value of derivatives designated as hedging instruments 2. Net asset value shall minimum be equal is presented as a current asset/short-term debt or financial to the carried value of equity asset/long-term debt depending upon the maturity date of the corresponding hedged item. The group manages its capital structure and makes necessary adjustments based on a continuing evaluation of the existing The interest swaps have terms between 2.2 and 8.1 years as at 31 economic business climate and the outlook in the shortand December 2018 (0.2 and 9.1 years as at 31 December 2017). medium-term. 104 AVINOR AS Article 5 of the company's Articles of Association lays down the Existing borrowings have covenants regarding amount of equity. following financial limitation: Long-term borrowings for the There are no equity requirement for the bonds. funding of long-term assets may only be raised within a limit The loan agreements with EIB and NIB requires equity of miniwhich ensures that the group's equity does not fall at any time mum 30 per cent of equity pluss net interest-bearing debt. below 40 per cent of the carrying amount of the group's longterm interest-bearing debt plus equity. AVINOR AS 2018 2017 Interest-bearing debt including interest rate swaps 20 234.5 20 999.9 Cash and cash equivalents 1 721.6 2 071.8 Net interest-bearing debt 18 512.9 18 928.1 Equity 13 937.0 13 573.2 Total equity and net interest-bearing debt 32 449.9 32 501.3 Net debt to equity ratio 1) 42.9 % 41.8 % AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 Interest-bearing debt including interest rate swaps 20 234.5 21 621.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1 739.8 2 071.8 Net interest-bearing debt 18 494.7 19 549.5 Equity 14 540.9 14 053.5 Total equity and net interest-bearing debt 33 035.6 33 603.0 Net debt to equity ratio 1) 44.0 % 41.8 % 1) Equity as a percentage of total equity and net interest-bearing debt. According to article 5 of the company's Article of Association. FAIR VALUE ESTIMATION The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and financial power forward contracts is based on market value at the balance sheet date. The fair value of all interest rate swaps is confirmed by the financial institutions which are the company's opposite party in the financial contracts entered into. The carrying amount of cash and bank overdrafts is approximately equal to the fair value of these instruments as they fall due in a short period of time. Similarly, the carrying amount of receivables and payables is approximately equal to fair value as they are entered into under normal conditions. The fair value of long-term debt is based on quoted market prices or on the interest rates for debt with corresponding terms and similar credit margin. The fair value of commercial papers equals principal amount. Below is a comparison of the carrying amounts and fair values of Avinor AS and the group's interest-bearing debt. AVINOR AS 2018 2017 CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR SPECIFICATION AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE Interest-bearing debt: State loan 2 083.0 2 090.5 2 527.3 2 551.5 Bonds 14 050.3 14 690.8 13 946.3 14 560.5 Bank borrowings 5 607.4 6 041.7 5 734.5 6 267.2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 105 AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 CARRYING FAIR CARRYING FAIR SPECIFICATION AMOUNT VALUE AMOUNT VALUE Interest-bearing debt: State loan 2 083.0 2 090.5 2 527.3 2 551.5 Bonds 14 050.3 14 690.8 13 946.3 14 560.5 Bank borrowings 5 607.4 6 041.7 6 330.2 6 949.0 The table below shows financial instruments at fair value by level of the following fair value measurement hierarchy: ·· Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1). ·· Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly (that is, derived from prices) (level 2). ·· Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is, unobservable inputs) (level 3). The following table presents the group’s, and also in all essentials the company’s, assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, and assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed at 31 December 2018: AVINOR GROUP LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 Power contracts 53.4 0.0 0.0 53.4 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 1 506.2 0.0 1 506.2 Total assets 53.4 1 506.3 0.0 1 559.7 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 6.2 0.0 6.2 Bonds 0.0 1 493.9 0.0 1 439.9 Total liabilities 0.0 1 500.1 0.0 1 500.1 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Interest-bearing debt State loan 0.0 2 090.5 0.0 2 090.5 Bonds 0.0 14 690.8 0.0 14 690.8 Bank borrowings 0.0 6 041.7 0.0 6 041.7 Total 0.0 22 823.0 0.0 22 823.0 There were no transfers between levels during the year. 106 AVINOR AS The following table presents the group’s, and also in all essentials the company’s, assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, and assets and liabilities for which fair values are disclosed at 31 December 2017: AVINOR GROUP LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL Assets Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.4 Power contracts 3.8 0.0 0.0 3.8 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 1 215.7 0.0 1 215.7 Total assets 3.8 1 216.1 0.0 1 219.9 Liabilities Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange contracts 0.0 4.9 0.0 4.9 Bonds 0.0 1 460.2 0.0 1 460.2 Derivatives used for hedging Interest rate contracts 0.0 25.6 0.0 25.6 Total liabilities 0.0 1 490.7 0.0 1 490.7 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed Interest-bearing debt State loan 0.0 2 551.5 0.0 2 551.5 Bonds 0.0 14 560.5 0.0 14 560.5 Bank borrowings 0.0 6 949.0 0.0 6 949.0 Total 0.0 24 061.0 0.0 24 061.0 There were no transfers between levels during the year. Interest-bearing debt and derivatives in level 2. The fair value estimation of derivatives is collected from the groups treasury system and checked against fair value estimates from the main bank connections. The fair value estimation of interest-bearing debt is collected from the groups treasury system and is estimated based on the difference between the coupon/fixed rate of interest on the interest-bearing debt compared with relevant NIBOR interest rate swaps and and implicit funding spread from the market. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 107 NOTE 14 Financial assets and liabilities All amounts in MNOK FINANCIAL ASSETS The Group has established a provision model that is based on historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward-looking IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was implemented on 1 January factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment. 2018, using the prospective method. The implementation of the The Group has historical had minor losses on trade receivables. standard has not had any significant effect on the company or the group's reporting, see note 25. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVIES Classification The group classifies its financial assets in the following cateDerivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivgories: At fair value through profit or loss and amortised cost. ative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured The classification is determined based on the contractual cash at their fair value. The method of recognising the resulting gain or flow characteristic of the instrument and the business model loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging the instrument is held within. Management determines the instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged. classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. The group designates certain derivatives as either: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are derivatives (a) Hedges of the fair value of recognised assets, liabilities or a firm with a positive fair value. Assets in this category are classified as commitment ( fair value hedge) current if expected realisation is within 12 months after the end of the reporting period. (b) Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction (cash flow hedge) Amortised cost Financial assets at amortised cost are assets where both the The assesment of the hedge effectiveness is based on the following conditions are met: The financial asset is held within economic relationship between the hedging instrument and a business model with the objective to hold financial assets in the hedged item, and that the credit risk is not dominant in order to collect contractual cash flows, and the contractual terms the change in fair value of the hedging instrument. The hedge of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows effectiveness is assessed prospectively. that are solely payment of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The full fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item The group's financial assets at amortised cost comprise 'trade and is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when other receivables' in the balance sheet. the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability. Other receivables consists of accruals of rental income. The group normally defines derivatives related to borrowings as Recognition and measurement hedging derivatives and as designated and qualified for hedge Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on accounting. the trade-date the date on which the group commits to purchase or sell the assets. Investments are initially recognised at fair value The group uses derivative financial instruments related to the plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair purchase of energy and foreign currency. For energy, forward value through profit or loss, with the exception of trade receivables energy contracts are purchased at Nasdaq OMX. None of these which are initially recognised at transaction price in accordance derivatives qualify for hedge accounting. with IFRS 15. Thereafter they are carried at amortised cost. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for Financial assets carried at fair value through profit and loss hedge accounting are, depending on whether the derivative is are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are related to operating or financing activities, recognised in the expensed in the income statement. Financial assets are derecincome statement within 'changes in value and other losses/gains ognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investnet' or within 'finance cost'. ments have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and Impairment of financial assets qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, With the exception of trade receivables, the Group do not have together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or any financial assets covered by the impairment rules. For trade liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The group only receivables without a significant financing component, the Group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest risk has applied the standard’s simplified approach and measure the on borrowings. The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit loss interest rate swaps hedging fixed rate borrowings is recognised for the asset from initial recognition. in the income statement within 'finance costs'. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income 108 AVINOR AS statement within 'changes in value and other losses/(gains) net'. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Changes in the fair value of the hedge fixed rate borrowings attributable to interest rate risk are recognised in the income The group classifies its financial liabilities in the following statement within 'finance costs'. categories: At fair value through profit or loss and amortised cost. The classification is determined based on the contractual cash Cash flow hedge flow characteristic of the instrument and the business model The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives the instrument is held within. Management determines the that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 'net finance costs'. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are derivatives with a negative fair value. Derivatives are initially recognised Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss at fair value. Subsequent changes in fair value are recorded in in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss ( for the income statement. Assets in this category are classified as example, when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place). The current if expected realisation is within 12 months after the end gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps of the reporting period. hedging variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement within 'finance costs'. Amortised cost Financial liabilities at amortised cost are non-derivative financial When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge liabilities with fixed or determinable payments that are not no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulaquoted in an active market. Financial liabilities at amortised tive gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity cost are recognised intially at fair value and subsequently and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction They are included in current liabilities, unless the group has an is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income 12 months after the balance sheet date. These are classified as statement. non-current liabilities. Categories of financial instruments in the balance sheet: AVINOR AS ASSETS AT ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES AMORTISED THROUGH USED FOR COST PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2018 Assets as per balance sheet Loans and receivables to group companies 376.6 0.0 0.0 376.6 Derivative financial instruments 0.0 53.5 1 506.2 1 559.7 Other financial assets 87.2 0.0 0.0 87.2 Trade receivables 899.2 0.0 0.0 899.2 Other receivables 230.3 0.0 0.0 230.3 Cash and cash equivalents 1 721.6 0.0 0.0 1 721.6 Total 3 314.9 53.5 1 506.2 4 874.6 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LIABILITIES THROUGH USED FOR AT AMORTISED PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING COST TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 0.0 0.0 1 638.6 1 638.6 Loans and payables to group companies 0.0 0.0 1 280.9 1 280.9 Other long-term liabilities 0.0 0.0 18 570.6 18 570.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 0.0 0.0 2 422.4 2 422.4 Total 0.0 0.0 23 912.5 23 912.5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 109 ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2017 Assets as per balance sheet Loans and receivables to group companies 172.1 0.0 0.0 172.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.0 4.1 1 215.7 1 219.8 Other financial assets 260.1 0.0 0.0 260.1 Trade receivables 942.1 0.0 0.0 942.1 Other receivables 176.8 0.0 0.0 176.8 Cash and cash equivalents 2 071.8 0.0 0.0 2 071.8 Total 3 622.9 4.1 1 215.7 4 842.7 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 0.0 0.0 2 083.0 2 083.0 Loans and payables to group companies 0.0 0.0 1 613.2 1 613.2 Other long-term liabilities 0.0 0.0 19 553.7 19 553.7 Trade payables and other liabilities 0.0 0.0 1 335.7 1 335.7 Total 0.0 0.0 24 585.6 24 585.6 AVINOR GROUP ASSETS AT ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES AMORTISED THROUGH USED FOR COST PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2018 Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 0.0 53.5 1 506.2 1 559.7 Other financial assets 88.3 0.0 0.0 88.3 Trade receivables 1 130.7 0.0 0.0 1 130.7 Other receivables 245.6 0.0 0.0 245.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1 739.8 0.0 0.0 1 739.8 Total 3 204.4 53.5 1 506.2 4 764.1 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LIABILITIES THROUGH USED FOR AT AMORTISED PROFIT OR LOSS HEDGING COST TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 0.0 0.0 1 638.6 1 638.6 Derivative financial instruments 6.2 0.0 0.0 6.2 Other long-term liabilities 0.0 0.0 18 570.6 18 570.6 Trade payables and other liabilities 0.0 0.0 2 484.1 2 484.1 Total 6.2 0.0 22 693.3 22 699.5 110 AVINOR AS ASSETS AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES LOANS AND THROUGH THE USED FOR RECEIVABLES PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING TOTAL 31 December 2017 Assets as per balance sheet Derivative financial instruments 0.0 4.2 1 215.7 1 219.9 Other financial assets 260.1 0.0 0.0 260.1 Trade receivables 1 153.7 0.0 0.0 1 153.7 Other receivables 193.5 0.0 0.0 193.5 Cash and cash equivalents 2 071.8 0.0 0.0 2 071.8 Total 3 679.1 4.2 1 215.7 4 899.0 LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE DERIVATIVES OTHER THROUGH THE USED FOR FINANCIAL PROFIT AND LOSS HEDGING LIABILITIES TOTAL Liabilities as per balance sheet State loan 0.0 0.0 2 083.0 2 083.0 Derivative financial instruments 4.9 25.6 0.0 30.5 Other long-term liabilities 0.0 0.0 20 097.1 20 097.1 Trade payables and other liabilities 0.0 0.0 1 483.0 1 483.0 Total 4.9 25.6 23 663.1 23 693.6 For information about the credit quality of financial assets see note 13. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 MOVEMENT 2018 2017 MOVEMENT Assets Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 1 283.3 1 026.7 256.6 1 283.3 1 026.7 256.6 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 222.9 189.0 33.9 222.9 189.0 33.9 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 0.3 -0.2 0.1 0.4 -0.3 Forward energy contracts 53.4 3.8 49.6 53.4 3.8 49.6 1 559.7 1 219.8 339.9 1 559.7 1 219.9 339.8 Liabilities Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 25.6 -25.6 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.2 4.9 1.3 Forward energy contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.2 30.5 -24.3 Net movement 339.9 364.1 Details of net movement: Changes in value and other losses/(gains) net (note 9) 49.4 47.9 Interest rate swaps recognised in other comprehensive income 186.3 211.9 Interests rate swaps changes in value 103.9 103.9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 111 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 1) AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 TOTAL HEDGING MOVEMENT RECOGNISED GAIN/LOSS(-) CARRYING IN CARRYING IN OCI RECOGNISED AVINOR AS AND AVINOR GROUP AMOUNT AMOUNT 2018 2018 IN OCI Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 1 283.3 256.6 186.1 52.1 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 222.9 33.9 0.2 -4.1 Total 1 506.2 290.5 186.3 48.0 1) Line item in the statement of financial position These derivative financial instruments are also cash flow hedges exchange contracts at 31 December 2018 was MNOK 203 (2017: of foreign exchange loans in EUR to fixed NOK. There has been no MNOK 200). ineffectivity in these hedging instruments. The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward energy All interest rate swaps, with the exception of one fair value hedge, contracts at 31 December 2018 was MNOK 162 (2017: MNOK 102). are designated as cash flow hedges. The notional principal amount of the outstanding interest rate Forward foreign exchange and energy contracts are not defined swaps contracts at 31 December 2018 were MNOK 9,459 (2017: as hedge accounting and are classified as a current asset and/or MNOK 9,459). At 31 December 2018, the fixed interest rates vary liability. from 1.11 per cent to 4.58 per cent (2017: 1.11 per cent to 5.56 per cent). The main floating rate is NIBOR and fixed Euro interest rate. Interest rate swaps are defined as hedge accounting instruments and the fair value of the hedging instrument is classified as a Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in other comnon-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the prehensive income (note 15) on interest rate swap contracts as hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or of 31 December 2018 will be continuously released to the income liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less statement until the repayment of the bank borrowings. than 12 months. The ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the derivative assets in the balance sheet. The notional principal amount of the outstanding forward foreign AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Other financial assets Other non-current receivables 87.2 260.1 88.3 260.1 Total 87.2 260.1 88.3 260.1 Other non-current receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed payments that are not quoted in an active market. Fair value of other financial assets are substantially identical with book value. TRADE RECEIVABLES, OTHER SHORT TERM RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in one year or less, they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as non-current assets. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Trade receivables Trade receivables 911.3 950.4 1 149.7 1 163.1 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables -12.1 -8.3 -19.1 -9.4 Trade receivables net 899.2 942.1 1 130.7 1 153.7 Receivables written off during the year 7.9 0.4 7.9 0.4 The fair value of trade receivables is approximately equal to the carrying amount. 112 AVINOR AS Loss on trade receivables is classified as other operating expense in the income statement. MOVEMENT IN THE PROVISION FOR IMPAIRMENT OF TRADE RECEIVABLES: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 At 1 January 8.3 1.7 9.4 2.1 This years provisions for receivables impairment 12.1 8.3 19.1 9.4 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible -7.9 -0.4 -7.9 -0.4 Unused amounts reversed -0.4 -1.3 -1.5 -1.7 At 31 December 12.1 8.3 19.1 9.4 Credit risk and foreign exchange risk are described in note 13. AT 31 DECEMBER THE AGING OF THE COMPANY'S RECEIVABLES WAS AS FOLLOWS: TOTAL NOT DUE <30 D 30-60D 60-90D >90D 2018 911.3 753.5 121.5 5.4 10.5 20.4 2017 950.4 734.2 133.0 7.8 2.7 72.7 AT 31 DECEMBER THE AGING OF THE GROUP'S RECEIVABLES WAS AS FOLLOWS: TOTAL NOT DUE <30 D 30-60D 60-90D >90D 2018 1 149.7 991.7 121.6 5.4 10.6 20.4 2017 1 163.1 942.7 136.0 7.9 2.7 73.8 SPECIFICATION OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Specification of trade and other receivables Trade receivables 899.2 942.1 1 130.7 1 153.7 Intra-group accounts 186.6 52.1 0.0 0.0 Accrued income 199.0 148.4 199.7 149.3 Prepaid expenses 40.5 43.4 42.5 52.9 Other short-term assets 31.3 28.5 45.9 44.2 Total 1 356.6 1 214.5 1 418.8 1 400.1 Fair value of trade and other receivables is approximately equal to the carrying amount. THE CARRYING AMOUNT OF TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY IS: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Euro 0.0 0.0 98.9 104.8 Total 0.0 0.0 98.9 104.8 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 113 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and bank overdrafts. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash and bank at hand 1 721.6 2 071.8 1 739.8 2 071.8 Short-term bank deposits 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 1 721.6 2 071.8 1 739.8 2 071.8 Cash and cash equivalents include the following for the purposes of the statement of cash flows: Cash and cash equivalents 1 721.6 2 071.8 1 739.8 2 071.8 Bank overdrafts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 1 721.6 2 071.8 1 739.8 2 071.8 Avinor AS has a credit facility of MNOK 4,000 and a overdraft limit of MNOK 600 in a bank. Group bank account system: The Avinor bank accounts are organised as a group bank account system. Avinor AS is the formal holder of the bank account. The bank accounts of all subsidiaries are therefore formally receivables from Avinor AS, and these companies are jointly responsible for the withdrawals that the Avinor group has made. BORROWINGS Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value. Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, except for borrowings hedged with a derivative fair value hedge, which is also carried at fair value in subsequent periods. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Non-current borrowings State loan 1 638.6 2 083.0 1 638.6 2 083.0 Bonds 13 350.3 13 946.3 13 350.3 13 946.3 Bank borrowings 5 220.3 5 607.4 5 220.3 6 150.8 Total long-term 20 209.2 21 636.7 20 209.2 22 180.1 Current borrowings First year instalment on long-term debt 1 531.5 579.0 1 531.5 631.3 Total current 1 531.5 579.0 1 531.5 631.3 Total current and long-term borrowings 21 740.7 22 215.7 21 740.7 22 811.4 114 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Movement in borrowings Opening net book amount at 1 January 22 215.7 19 308.7 22 811.4 19 956.6 Proceeds from borrowings 0.0 4 439.5 0.0 4 439.5 Repayment of borrowings -579.0 -964.7 -1 174.7 -1 016.9 Net proceeds/repayment of short term borrowings (commercial papers) 0.0 -1 400.0 0.0 -1 400.0 Changes in value 103.9 832.2 103.9 832.2 Closing net book amount at 31 December 21 740.7 22 215.7 21 740.7 22 811.4 EFFECTIVE INTEREST RATE INFORMATION ABOUT STATE LOAN AND BANK BORROWINGS CURRENCY (%) State loan NOK 1.61 % Bonds, inclusive commercial papers NOK/EUR 3.22 % Bank borrowings NOK 3.21 % The figures include interest hedging derivatives. The effective interest rate is calculated as a weighted average depending the relative size of the borrowings. See note 13 for a description of interest risk. INSTALMENT PROFILE: 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 THEREAFTER TOTAL State loan 444.4 444.4 444.4 250.0 55.5 0.0 1 638.6 Bonds 450.0 2 970.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 9 930.1 13 350.3 Bank borrowings 447.1 447.1 447.1 527.1 527.1 2 824.8 5 220.3 State loan Bank borrowings The loan is divided into six equal debentures with different Bank borrowings in Avinor AS, as at 31 December 2018, interest terms. Debentures one to five have interest rates equal to are as follows: the interest rate used by the State when lending to public sector enterprises (average interest rate on five-year government bonds ·· Loan of NOK 1.5 billion from the Nordic Investment Bank in the period October-September) plus 30 basis points. The inter(NIB). The loan, disbursed in December 2011, has a term of 20 est on one of the debentures is renewed each year. The interest years and is irredeemable for 8 years. is payable in arrears at 31 December. The loan had originally a ·· Loan of MNOK 1525.3 from the European Investment Bank payment period of 20 years starting 2002. The term of the loan (EIB). The loan, disbursed in June 2012, has a term of 16 years has subsequently been extended so that the final maturity date is and is irredeemable for 4.5 years. in 2024. The first instalment was paid 30 June 2002. ·· Loan of NOK 1.0 billion from the Nordic Investment Bank (NIB). The loan, disbursed in November 2016, has a term of 20 Bonds years and is irredeemable for 8 years. The loans, as at 31 December 2018, are as follows: ·· Loan of MNOK 1899.9 from the European Investment Bank (EIB). The loan, disbursed in April 2017, has a term of 12 years ·· Face value MNOK 450, maturity date 8 May 2020, and is irredeemable for 3 years. interest rate 3.75 per cent ·· Face value MNOK 2,000, maturity date 8 May 2028, According to its Articles of Association the company is not interest rate 4.45 per cent allowed to pledge assets connected to the core business of the ·· Face value MEUR 300, maturity date 20 March 2021, group as security. interest rate 1.75 per cent ·· Face value MNOK 700, maturity date 30 October 2019, Drawing rights interest rate 3 months NIBOR pluss 0.37 per cent The group has an unused bank credit facility of MNOK 4,000 at a ·· Face value MEUR 300, maturity date 29 April 2025, floating interest rate, expiring in 2020. interest rate 1.00 per cent The group also has an unused bank overdraft limit of MNOK ·· Face value MEUR 500, maturity date 9 February 2027, 600 at a floating interest rate. This overdraft facility is part of the interest rate 1.25 per cent group’s cash management agreement. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 115 NOTE 15 Other reserves All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS PENSIONS HEDGES TOTAL At 1 January 2017 -320.2 -11.7 -331.8 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -385.9 0.0 -385.9 Tax effect 92.6 0.0 92.6 Fair value change cash flow hedge 0.0 -109.4 -109.4 Tax effect 0.0 26.3 26.3 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -8.7 -1.2 -9.9 At 31 December 2017 -622.2 -96.0 -718.1 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions 0.0 Tax effect -485.6 0.0 -485.6 Fair value change cash flow hedge 111.7 0.0 111.7 Tax effect 0.0 186.3 186.3 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities 0.0 -42.9 -42.9 At 31 December 2018 -12.9 0.6 -12.3 Balanseført verdi 31.12.2018 -1 009.0 48.0 -960.9 AVINOR GROUP PENSIONS HEDGES TOTAL At 1 January 2017 -321.9 -40.3 -362.4 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -901.8 0.0 -901.8 Tax effect 216.3 0.0 216.3 Fair value change cash flow hedge 0.0 -97.3 -97.3 Tax effect 0.0 23.4 23.4 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -14.2 -1.6 -15.8 At 31 December 2017 -1 021.6 -115.8 -1 137.6 Actuarial gains/(losses) on pensions -666.3 0.0 -666.3 Tax effect 152.9 0.0 152.9 Fair value change cash flow hedge 0.0 211.9 211.9 Tax effect 0.0 -48.7 -48.7 Change in tax rate, effect deferred tax assets/-liabilities -20.2 0.6 -19.6 At 31 December 2018 -1 555.2 48.0 -1 507.4 116 AVINOR AS NOTE 16 Pension obligation All amounts in MNOK DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN STATENS PENSJONSKASSE (SPK) market prices and the historical development in the company and in the rest of society. Changes in the assumptions will have The pension schemes are generally funded through payments to material effect on the estimated pension obligation-/cost. Statens Pensjonskasse (the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund, SPK), determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The Defined benefit plan group has a defined benefit plan. A defined benefit plan is a The group is required by law to have a pension plan. The pension pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an plan of the group satisfies these requirements. employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more factors such as years of service and compensation. The pension plan includes pension benefits in accordance with the act relating to the Norwegian Public Service Fund (SPK). The The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefits are retirement pension, disability pension and dependbenefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit ent pension. In addition, the calculations do include a contracobligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of tual pension right, which is a tariff regulated early retirement plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually scheme from 62 years of age. by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined The benefits are coordinated with the National Insurance Scheme by discounting the estimated future cash outflow using interest and any previous membership periods with service pensions fund rates of high-quality corporate bonds (or long-term treasury within the public sector. The pensions have a guaranteed level of bonds) that are denominated in the currency in which the benegross payment independent of the National Insurance Scheme. fits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating About 50 per cent of the employees have an ordinary retirement to the terms of the related pension liability. age of 62 or 65 years. Changes in assumptions, basic data and the benefits of the penWith effect from 1 January 2018, new rules were introduced that sion plan which have as an effect an accounting loss or gain will transferred the obligation to pay for the adjustment premium be set off against equity through other comprehensive income in on pension liabilities related former employees from the state to the period they occur. the individual company. The increase in the pension liability as of the second quarter of 2017 as a result of this was recognized in A change in the benefits which refers to previous periods of earnthe income statement for 2017 (MNOK 415.0 in the Group and ing implies a change in the pension plan which is a cost related MNOK 170.0 in the parent). to previous periods of earning. A negative cost occurs when the benefits are changed in such a way that the present value of the Actuarial loss in 2018 (MNOK 666.3 for the group and MNOK projected benefits are reduced. 485.6 for the parent) is due to changes in financial and actuarial assumptions. The pension scheme is not directly funded. The pension payments are guaranteed by the Norwegian government (Section New Act on public occupational pension schemes and 1 of the Pensions Act). Management of the allocated fund change of the group's pension scheme ( fictitious fund) is simulated as if the funds were invested in long The new Act on public occupational pension schemes will, term government bonds. Three per cent of the fund related to according to the plan, come into force from 2020. The Act is Avinor Flysikring AS is simulated as invested in the Government expected to be adopted in 2019. New regulations for coordination Pension Fund Global. The pension scheme is not movable in the between the public occupational pension schemes and the same way as private pensions schemes and it is assumed that the National Insurance Scheme have been adopted but not implepension scheme will be continued in SPK. In the simulation it is mented pending the new Act. assumed that the bonds are held to maturity. The pension fund is therefore estimated at nominal value plus the return on the fund. The public occupational pension scheme in the Group is closed with effect from 1 January 2019. From the same date, a defined Net pension obligation contribution pension is introduced in accordance with the Act The value of net pension obligations is determined on an actuaron Contribution Pension. In Avinor Flysikring AS, it is agreed that ial basis using a number of assumptions. These include, among all employees under the age of 53 as of 31 December 2018 will others, the discount rate, future salary increases, regulation of be transferred to the defined contribution plan. Employees over pensions and demographic assumptions about disability and the age of 53 in Avinor Flysikring AS and employees of Avinor AS mortality experience. The assumptions are based on verifiable and Svalbard Lufthavn AS may choose to continue in the public COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 117 occupational pension scheme or change to the defined contribuThe AFP scheme is based on a tripartite collaboration between tion pension scheme introduced. (A defined contribution pension employer organizations, employee organizations and the state. scheme is a scheme whereby the employer commits to paying The state covers one third of the pension expenses of AFP, while an agreed premium to the scheme and where the premium affiliated companies cover two thirds. For accounting purposes, payments are recognized in statement of income.) the scheme is regarded as a defined benefit multi enterprise scheme. It is not yet, with sufficient degree of reliability, possible As a consequence of the closure of the public occupational pension to calculate the Group's share of the liability in the scheme. The scheme in Avinor Flysikring AS and the transition to a privat scheme is therefore accounted for as a defined contribution plan pension scheme for all employees under the age of 53 as of 31 where the premium payments are recognized in the income December 2018, a new scheme has been established relating to statement. There is a significant underfunding in the APF special-age pensions. The Group will also, as from 1 January 2019, scheme. In addition, companies participating in the AFP scheme be affiliated with the private early retirement scheme (AFP) for are jointly and severally liable for two thirds of future pension employees that have transitioned to the new pension scheme. The payments. An increase in the premiums for the AFP scheme is changes in special-age pension and AFP are considered as a change therefore expected in the future. The premium for 2019 will be to the defined benefit plan causing a recognized profit in the 2018 2.5 per cent of a salary basis which is defined in more detail in the income statement of MNOK 128.8. Additional accounting conseAFP scheme's articles of association. quences of the changes described above are not reflected in the financial statements as of 31 December 2018 due to uncertainty The tariff K2013 have been used for calculating life and mortality regarding the scope of the transition to the new pension scheme expectancy, while the tariff K1963 multiplied by 200 per cent have and the accounting consequences of the changes. been used for determination of disability risk. As of 1 January 1 2019 the Group will be affiliated with the private early retirement pension scheme (AFP), which is a collective pension scheme for the tariff based sector in Norway. LIFE EXPECTANCY MORTALITY EXPECTANCY DISABILITY EXPECTANCY AGE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE 20 81 85 0.023 % 0.009 % 0.115 % 0.172 % 40 82 86 0.058 % 0.034 % 0.264 % 0.524 % 60 84 87 0.428 % 0.288 % 1.406 % 2.404 % 80 89 91 4.304 % 2.947 % IA IA The amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current service cost 265.3 369.7 449.7 737.9 Plan amendment 0.0 0.0 -113.0 0.0 Interest cost 136.9 135.1 229.3 218.4 Return on plan assets -93.5 -98.0 -151.4 -156.5 Contribution from the employees -28.4 -27.6 -47.3 -45.8 Administration fee 4.0 4.8 6.7 7.9 Payroll tax, employers contribution 43.9 57.7 74.8 113.0 Total pension cost (Note 5, 9) 328.2 441.8 448.8 874.9 118 AVINOR AS Pension obligation and plan assets: AVINOR AS 2018 2017 FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL Pension obligations and plan assets: Change in gross pension obligation: Obligation at 1 January 5 817.8 27.6 5 845.4 5 158.3 25.3 5 183.6 Current service cost 268.2 1.1 269.3 372.2 2.3 374.5 Interest cost 136.9 0.0 136.9 135.1 0.0 135.1 Merger/demerger 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.7 0.0 8.7 Actuarial losses/(gains) 371.5 0.0 371.5 306.2 0.0 306.2 Benefits paid -162.7 0.0 -162.7 -162.7 0.0 -162.7 Gross pension obligation at 31 December 6 431.7 28.7 6 460.4 5 817.8 27.6 5 845.4 Change in pension funds: Fair value at 1 January 3 853.0 0.0 3 853.0 3 727.9 0.0 3 727.9 Expected return on plan assets 93.5 0.0 93.5 98.0 0.0 98.0 Merger/demerger 0.0 0.0 0.0 8.2 0.0 8.2 Employer contributions 282.4 0.0 282.4 213.6 0.0 213.6 Actuarial (losses)/gains -54.1 0.0 -54.1 -32.1 0.0 -32.1 Benefits paid -162.7 0.0 -162.7 -162.7 0.0 -162.7 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 4 012.1 0.0 4 012.1 3 853.0 0.0 3 853.0 Net pension obligation 2 419.6 28.7 2 448.3 1 964.9 27.6 1 992.4 Payroll tax, employers contribution 341.1 0.0 341.1 272.9 0.0 272.9 Net pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2 760.7 28.7 2 789.4 2 237.7 27.6 2 265.3 Actual return on plan assets last year 69.6 69.6 65.5 65.5 Expected employer contribution next year 245.4 245.4 202.6 202.6 Expected payment of benefits next year -175.0 -175.0 -165.1 -165.1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 119 AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL FUNDED UNFUNDED TOTAL Pension obligations and plan assets: Change in gross pension obligation: Obligation at 1 January 9 706.7 28.1 9 734.8 8 195.5 25.6 8 221.1 Current service cost 455.1 1.3 456.4 743.3 2.5 745.8 Plan amendment -370.4 257.4 -113.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest cost 229.3 0.0 229.3 218.4 0.0 218.4 Actuarial losses/(gains) 542.3 0.0 542.3 743.4 0.0 743.4 Benefits paid -204.8 0.0 -204.8 -193.9 0.0 -193.9 Gross pension obligation at 31 December 10 358.2 286.8 10 645.0 9 706.7 28.1 9 734.8 Change in pension funds: Fair value at 1 January 6 195.4 0.0 6 195.4 5 943.5 0.0 5 943.5 Expected return on plan assets 151.4 0.0 151.4 156.5 0.0 156.5 Employer contributions 478.7 0.0 478.7 336.5 0.0 336.5 Actuarial (losses)/gains -42.4 0.0 -42.4 -47.3 0.0 -47.3 Benefits paid -204.8 0.0 -204.8 -193.9 0.0 -193.9 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 6 578.3 0.0 6 578.3 6 195.4 0.0 6 195.4 Net pension obligation 3 779.9 286.8 4 066.7 3 511.4 28.1 3 539.5 Payroll tax, employers contribution. 530.3 36.3 566.6 486.4 0.0 486.4 Net pension obligation recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 4 310.2 323.1 4 633.4 3 997.8 28.1 4 025.9 Actual return on plan assets last year 121.6 121.6 102.3 102.3 Expected employer/employee contribution next year 251.5 251.5 340.1 340.1 Expected payment of benefits next year -217.9 -217.9 -196.8 -196.8 Movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year: Obligation at 1 January 1 992.4 1 455.6 3 539.4 2 277.5 Pension cost charged to the income statement 312.7 411.6 421.3 807.9 Employer/employee contribution -286.4 -218.4 -485.4 -344.4 Administration fee 4.0 4.8 6.7 7.9 Merger/demerger 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 Actuarial (gains)/losses recognised in other comprehensive income 425.6 338.3 584.7 790.7 Liability in the balance sheet at 31 December 2 448.3 1 992.4 4 066.7 3 539.5 Actuarial (gains)/losses on post-employment benefit obligations Actuarial (gains)/losses 425.6 338.3 584.7 790.7 Effect change in payroll tax rate 60.0 47.7 81.6 111.2 Total actuarial (gains)/losses on post-employment benefit obligations 485.6 386.0 666.2 901.9 The calculation of pension cost and net pension obligation are made based on a set of assumptions. The discount rate is based on Norwegian covered bond interest rates. The pension obligation's weighted average duration is 24 years for the Group and 21 years for the parent. Assumptions regarding future salary and pension increases in addition to official pension benefit adjustments are based on updated recommendations from the The Norwegian Accounting Standards Board (NASB). 120 AVINOR AS 2018 2017 Discount rate 2.60 % 2.40 % Future salary increases 2.75 % 2.50 % Future pension increases 1.75 % 1.50 % Early retirement scheme 15.00 % 15.00 % Average turnover rate (under 50 years of age) 3.00 % 3.00 % Average turnover rate (over 50 years of age) 0.20 % 0.20 % The probability of retiring by use of special age pensions in Avinor AS and Svalbard Lufthavn AS is estimated at 50 per cent if >50 years, 35 per cent if 55-40 years and 10 per cent if <40 years. For Avinor Flysikring AS, corresponding estimates are 90 per cent if >55 years, 40 per cent if 55-40 years and 10 per cent if <40 years. Determination of premium levels The determination of premium levels and the calculation of provisions for pension obligations are based on ordinary actuarial principles. PENSION OBLIGATION SENSITIVITIES 2018 2017 CHANGE IN PENSION OBLIGATION AS A RESULT OF ONE PERCENTAGE POINT CHANGES IN WEIGHTED FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS: +1 -1 +1 -1 Discount rate -1 879 2 535 -1 541 2 055 Future salary increase 970 -1 125 744 -853 Pension regulation 1 001 -1 167 905 -984 NOTE 17 Provisions for other liabilities and charges All amounts in MNOK PROVISIONS Provisions are recognised when: the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount has been reliably estimated. When the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. AVINOR AS EARLY ENVIRONSEVERANCE RETIREMENT MENTAL PAY PAY POLLUTION OTHER TOTAL At 1 January 2017 3.9 18.2 156.3 0.0 178.5 Additional provision 0.0 1.1 40.0 0.0 41.1 Reversed -0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.9 Used -1.2 -16.0 -14.0 0.0 -31.2 At 1 January 2018 1.8 3.3 182.3 0.0 187.5 Additional provision 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Reversed 0.0 -2.1 0.0 0.0 -2.1 Used -0.7 -1.2 -15.5 0.0 -17.4 At 31 December 2018 1.2 0.0 166.8 0.0 168.1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 121 AVINOR GROUP EARLY ENVIRONSEVERANCE RETIREMENT MENTAL PAY PAY POLLUTION OTHER TOTAL At 1 January 2017 3.9 37.7 158.4 0.2 200.2 Additional provision 0.0 6.3 40.0 0.0 46.3 Reversed -0.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.9 Used -1.2 -28.9 -14.0 -0.2 -44.3 At 1 January 2018 1.8 15.1 184.4 0.0 201.4 Additional provision 0.1 10.4 0.0 0.0 10.5 Reversed 0.0 -2.1 0.0 0.0 -2.1 Used -0.7 -9.5 -15.5 0.0 -25.7 At 31 December 2018 1.2 13.9 168.9 0.0 184.1 The short-term part of provisions for other liabilities and charges are included in other short term liability. See note 13. Severance pay Until 31.12.2005, employees were entitled to severance pay pursuant to the Civil Service Act on involuntary termination. The carrying amount of the severance pay liability is defined as the present value of the defined benefits at the balance sheet date. On 4 December 2003, the board of directors approved a substantial restructuring of the group, called Take-off-05. One of the consequences of this decision was a substantial cut in the workforce. Part of the cut was carried out by use of redundancy pay. Redundancy pay is still covered by the company. The period of time for the right to redundancy pay depends on age and seniority at time of resignation. The provision for redundancy pay is based on expectations about the redundancy pay period based on the above-mentioned rules. Early retirement pay air navigation management The group has entered into individual early retirement pay agreements covering 72 per cent of normal wages in the period 60-62 years. After this period the individuals will be covered by ordinary pension plans. Early retirement pay others This include optional retirement pay in accordance with the group's policy related to restructuring. Environmental pollution A provison is made for cost related to surveys and mapping, as well as handling of contamined land (see note 21). NOTE 18 Other short-term liabilities All amounts in MNOK AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Holiday allowance 180.3 176.2 307.2 299.7 Advance from customers 135.4 126.1 161.4 130.7 Wages and social security 57.9 58.5 92.0 95.9 Accruals 380.0 962.8 428.9 1 018.4 Intra-group liability 1 280.9 1 613.2 0.0 0.0 Other short-term liability 413.5 317.1 416.5 330.4 Total 2 448.1 3 253.9 1 406.0 1 875.1 122 AVINOR AS NOTE 19 Subsidiaries All amounts in MNOK AVINOR GROUP The consolidated financial statements encompasses Avinor AS and all entities over which Avinor AS has control. The group controls an entity when the group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. As at 31 December 2018 all subsidiaries are wholly owned. Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains/losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group. AVINOR AS Shares in subsidiaries are recognised at cost at the acquisition date and are classified as a long-term investment. The shares are assessed whether there is any indication that their carrying amount exceeds the amount to be recovered through use or sale. The consolidated financial statement of the group includes the following subsidiaries as at 31 December 2018: BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK TOTAL EQUITY PROFIT/ DIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES HOME OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.2018 LOSS 2018 Airport Svalbard Lufthavn AS Norway Longyearbyen operations 100 % 104.3 142.2 13.9 Air navigation Avinor Flysikring AS Norway Oslo services 100 % 367.2 304.2 184.4 Avinor Utvikling AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 670.0 1 105.8 4.9 Sjømatterminalen AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 20.0 20.0 -1.4 Total 1 161.6 1 572.2 201.8 BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK TOTAL EQUITY PROFIT/ INDIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES: HOME OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.2018 LOSS 2018 Flesland Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 108.0 147.8 6.9 Værnes Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 132.8 109.1 -0.2 Sola Hotel Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 86.7 118.6 3.9 Hell Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 24.6 18.8 0.3 Hotell Østre AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 171.2 265.0 26.4 Flyporten AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 61.7 95.7 9.9 Total 585.1 755.0 47.2 The consolidated financial statement of the group includes the following subsidiaries as at 31 December 2017: BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK TOTAL EQUITY PROFIT/ DIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES HOME OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.2017 LOSS 2017 Airport Svalbard Lufthavn AS Norway Longyearbyen operations 100 % 104.3 132.3 18.4 Air navigation Avinor Flysikring AS Norway Oslo services 100 % 367.2 271.1 -26.6 Avinor Utvikling AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 670.0 1 100.9 8.3 Total 1 141.5 1 504.3 0.1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 123 BUSINESS MAIN OWNERSHIP/ BOOK TOTAL EQUITY PROFIT/ INDIRECTLY OWNED SUBSIDIARIES: HOME OFFICE BUSINESS VOTING SHARES VALUE 31.12.2017 LOSS 2017 Flesland Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 108.0 140.9 7.2 Værnes Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 132.5 102.7 1.2 Sola Hotel Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 86.7 110.0 5.2 Hell Eiendom AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 24.6 18.6 0.3 Hotell Østre AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 171.2 231.5 24.9 Flyporten AS Norway Oslo Real estate 100 % 61.7 84.3 11.2 Total 584.7 688.0 50.0 NOTE 20 Share capital, shareholder information, dividend and results All amounts in MNOK SHARE CAPITAL AND PREMIUM RESERVE Ordinary shares are classified as equity. DIVIDEND DISTRUBUTION Dividend distribution to the company's shareholders is recognised as a liability in the group's financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the company's shareholders. NUMBER OF SHARES FACE VALUE SHARE-CAPITAL Ordinary shares 540 010 0.01 5 400.1 Total 540 010 0.01 5 400.1 The company has paid the following dividend on ordinary shares: 2018 2017 NOK 1018.5 per share in 2016 0.0 550.0 NOK 462.3 per share in 2017 249.7 0.0 Total 249.7 550.0 Proposed dividend for approval in the general assembly (Not presented as a liability at 31 December) 2018 2017 NOK 462.3 per share 0.0 249.7 NOK 1083 per share 584.9 0.0 Total 584.9 249.7 All shares are owned by the Norwegian State, represented by the Ministry of Transport and Communication. 124 AVINOR AS NOTE 21 Contingencies and uncertainties Norwegian Defence The external environment There is a cooperation agreement between Norwegian Defence and It has been uncovered that the environmental pollutant PFOS Avinor with corresponding local agreements concerning allocation ( fire foam) is spread at several airports. Risk assessments have of responsibilities and expenses for airports where both parties have been carried out to identify possible injuries these pollutants activities. Based on a mandate from the Ministry of Transportation have for human health and the environment. Efforts are being and the Ministry of Defence a new agreement was established and made to clarify the scope of measures that are necessary to approved by the government in February 2011, with effect from 1 implement. The economic consequences of this work depend January 2010. The agreement establishes principles for allocation on the extent of the localities on which measures need to be of investment and operational expenses between the parties at taken, as well as regulatory requirements and available measures. the airports owned by Avinor and the Norwegian Defence, and the The Norwegian Environment Agency has given Avinor a an Defence’s payment for air navigation services. assignment to compile available data for each airport, prepare proposals for measures and cost calculations. Except are Evenes There is still no clarification of the level of payment for the airport, Oslo airport, Kristiansand airport and Svalbard airport Norwegian Defence’s use of Avinor's airports, which also entails where there are already ongoing cases. uncertainty in relation to the Norwegian Defence’s payment to Avinor back in time, until 2010. Avinor expects that the regulaPensions tions for airport charges and aviation charges will be changed, The new Act on public occupational pension schemes is schedso that the Norwegian Defence will pay according to the same uled to come into force from 2020. In addition, new regulations regulations. This is dependent on a political clarification. have been adopted for the coordination of public occupational pension schemes and the National Insurance Scheme. The Air stations owned by the Defence Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs has prepared a consultation The Storting decided, in 2012, that Bodø's main air station, will be paper with proposals for necessary legislative amendments. The closed down, while Evenes will be the advanced base for fighter consultation memorandum does not contain legislative proposplanes in the north. Bodø airport shall function as an advanced als for a new early retirement scheme (“AFP”) or terms related to base after the close-down of Bodø main air station. This will be an special-age pensions. The regulations for the coordination have intermediate solution until the new fighter planes are operational not been implemented and are therefore not reflected in the and have replaced the existing planes. This is estimated to come financial statements as of 31 December 2018. into effect in 2022. The cost picture may also be affected by the construction of a new airport in Bodø which is included in the The public occupational pension schemes in Avinor in the National Transport Plan 2018-2029 during the first six-year period. Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund (SPK) closes with effect from 1 January 2019 and the employees with membership of The Storting decided on November 15, 2016, that Andøya military the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund will on this date be aircraft station will be shut down when today's P-3 Orion surveiloffered membership in a defined contribution pension scheme. lance aircraft are phased out and that a main base for surveillance/ This means that the pension scheme in the Group gradually advanced base for fighter aircraft at Harstad/Narvik airport, changes from a defined benefit pension scheme where the Evenes, will be established, estimated to 2022. This will mean pension is based on final salary at the time of retirement to an changes in operational responsibility at Andøya airport. Changes in arrangement with approximate balance earnings. This will have operational responsibility mean that the Norwegian Defence are no consequences for the accounting treatment of pension costs and longer the airport manager and airport operator. This means that obligations in Avinor, but as of today there are insufficient basis the airport operation must be taken care of by another party, and for calculating the effects. Accounting effects will be taken into then a party in civil aviation. The consequence is that the company account when the new scheme is adopted or introduced. that receives the operational responsibility also receives responsibility for all revenues and costs. This entails a risk of increased deficits, and then an increased cost burden on the parties in civil aviation. There is a high probability that Avinor will be subject to this operational responsibility, with associated consequences. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 125 NOTE 22 Commitments All amounts in MNOK The parent company and the group have contracted for capital expenditure not yet incurred at the end of the reporting period as follows: AVINOR AS AVINOR GROUP 2018 2017 2018 2017 Property, plant and equipment 716.6 564.7 729.1 611.0 Total 716.6 564.7 729.1 611.0 NOTE 23 Related-party transactions All amounts in MNOK The Ministry of Transport and Communication airport or other material changes in the airport structure shall be As the sole owner of Avinor AS the Norwegian State represented presented to SD. The final decision is made by the Storting. The by the Ministry of Transport and Communication (SD) is a charges regulation which decides the setting of air traffic charges related party. shall be sanctioned by SD. SD has the principal authority regarding the structure of the Group companies airport network and the traffic charges. Any closing down of an Outstanding accounts between companies in the group: AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 SVALBARD AVINOR SJØMATAVINOR FLESLAND VÆRNES LUFTHAVN AS FLYSIKRING AS TERMINALEN AS UTVIKLING AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS Loans to group companies 120.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 45.0 Intra-group receivables 2.5 161.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 Total 122.5 161.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 45.3 Other short-term intra-group liability 65.7 601.5 0.0 522.5 21.7 -2.1 Total 65.7 601.5 0.0 522.5 21.7 -2.1 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2018 CONT. SOLA HOTEL HELL HOTELL EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS ØSTRE AS FLYPORTEN AS TOTAL Loans to group companies 25.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 190.0 Intra-group receivables 0.2 0.0 17.6 4.3 186.6 Total 25.2 0.0 17.6 4.3 376.6 Other short-term intra-group liability 1.9 17.3 29.0 23.5 1 280.9 Total 1.9 17.3 29.0 23.5 1 280.9 126 AVINOR AS AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 SVALBARD AVINOR AVINOR FLESLAND VÆRNES LUFTHAVN AS FLYSIKRING AS UTVIKLING AS EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS Loans to group companies 120.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Intra-group receivables 6.1 24.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 126.1 24.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other short-term intra-group liability 24.1 526.4 519.1 113.2 62.6 Total 24.1 526.4 519.1 113.2 62.6 AVINOR AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 CONT. SOLA HOTEL HELL HOTELL EIENDOM AS EIENDOM AS ØSTRE AS FLYPORTEN AS TOTAL Loans to group companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 120.0 Intra-group receivables 0.0 0.0 17.6 4.0 52.1 Total 0.0 0.0 17.6 4.0 172.1 Other short-term intra-group liability 94.4 17.0 177.8 78.6 1 613.2 Total 94.4 17.0 177.8 78.6 1 613.2 NOTE 24 Events after the reporting period New information after the reporting period about conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period is recognised in the financial statement. Events after the reporting period affecting the group's future financial position are disclosed if material. Avinor and the Norwegian Defence have in March 2019 reached an agreement which regulates payments from Avinor for the use of the Defence – owned airports from 2017 until 2022 , and a rental agreement with the Norwegian Defence Estates Agency for the rent of land and infrastructure at Bodoe airport until 2021. This have been reflected in the accounts. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 127 NOTE 25 New and future accounting standards New and amended standards adopted by the group The standard is effective from 1 January 2019 and will be impleThere are several changes that came into force for the financial mented according to a modified retrospective method where the year 2018 that are relevant to the Group. right to use assets equals the obligations (no restatement of earlier comparative periods in the year-end accounts of 2019). The IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was implemented on 1 January company and the Group will apply the recognition exemptions 2018, using the prospective method. The implementation of the for immaterial lease agreements (IFRS 16.5 b.) and short-term standard has not had any significant effect on the company or lease agreements (IFRS 16.5 a.). The company and the Group will the group's reporting. Financial instruments are mainly discussed also choose not to apply IFRS 16 to intangible assets (IFRS 16.4). in notes 13 and 14. Recognized assets and liabilities under IFRS 16 will be presented separately in the company's and the Group's balance sheet. IFRS 15 Revenue Recognition was implemented on 1 January 2018 using the full retrospective method. The implementation Estimated lease obligation is calculated as the present value of of the standard has not led to changes in the company or the expected rental payments over the lease term. Expected rental group's recognition of revenues in 2018. Revenues are mainly payments are index-adjusted where applicable. A discount rate discussed in note 4. similar to the Group's incremental borrowing rate has been used. New standards, amendments and The company's and the Group's lease obligations as of 1 January interpretations not yet adopted 2019 as a result of this are mainly related to office rent, including A number of new standards and amendments to standards and the head office in Oslo (Bjørvika), the lease of Bodø Airport from interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after the Norwegian Defence and various lease agreements related to 1 January 2019, and have not been applied in preparing these machinery, equipment, etc. The total calculated lease obligation/ consolidated financial statement. right of use for the Group is MNOK 497, of which MNOK 420 relates to the parent company Avinor AS. In addition, intra-group Avinor has chosen not to early implement any of these standards. leases are estimated at MNOK 176. IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17. There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretation that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on IFRS 16 addresses the principles of recognition, measurement, the group. presentation and disclosure of lease agreements for both parties in the agreement, the customer (lessee) and the offerer (lessor). The new standard demands that the lessee recognise assets and obligations for the majority of lease agreements, which is a material change from today’s rules. For the lessor the accounting treatment will mainly remain unchanged, which implies that the asset is derecognized in the case of financial lease and a profit or loss is recognized. The classification of operational and financial leases are described in note 12 (Intangible assets, property, plant and equipment). 128 AVINOR AS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE CEO We confirm, to the best of our knowledge that the financial statements for the period 1 January to 31 December 2018 have been prepared in accordance with current applicable accounting standards, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the entity and the group taken as a whole. We also confirm that the Board of Directors' Report includes a true and fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position of the entity and the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the entity and the group. Oslo, 3 April 2019 Board of Directors of Avinor AS Anne Carine Tanum Ola H. Strand Eli Skrøvset Linda Bernander Silseth Chair of the Board Vice Chair Herlof Nilssen Bjørn Tore Mikkelsen Heidi Anette Sørum Olav Aadal Dag Falk-Petersen CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 129 Statsautoriserte revisorer Foretaksregisteret: NO 976 389 387 MVA Ernst & Young AS Tlf: +47 24 00 24 00 Fax: +47 24 00 24 01 Dronning Eufemias gate 6, NO-0191 Oslo www.ey.no Postboks 1156 Sentrum, NO-0107 Oslo Medlemmer av Den norske revisorforening INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of Avinor AS Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion We have audited the financial statements of Avinor AS, which comprise the financial statements for the parent company and the Group. The financial statements for the parent company and the Group comprise the balance sheets as at 31 December 2018, income statement, statement of comprehensive income, the statements of cash flows and changes in equity for the year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with laws and regulations and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2018 and their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with laws, regulations, and auditing standards and practices generally accepted in Norway, including International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company and the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Norway, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities as required by law and regulations. We have also complied with our other ethical obligations in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements for 2018. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the financial statements. Pensions The parent company and the Group have significant pension obligations recognized in the balance sheet. At the end of the accounting year, gross pension obligations amounted to MNOK 6 460.4 and MNOK 10 645 respectively, for the parent company and the Group. The valuation of the pension obligations requires a considerable degree of judgment and technical competence, including the use of an external actuary to calculate the obligations. Even small changes in the most important assumptions applied in the valuation of the Group’s pension obligations including salary growth, inflation, discount interest, mortality and withdrawals from the early retirement scheme (AFP) and special age arrangements can significantly impact the calculation of the obligation. Avinor Flysikring, a subsidiary of Avinor AS, has in 2018 changed the pension scheme, resulting in that all employees under the age of 53 will be transferred to a defined A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 130 AVINOR AS 2 contribution pension scheme and a private AFP scheme. Overall, these conditions are of great importance to the financial accounts, hence this issue have been a key audit matter. Our audit of the parent company and Group’s treatment of pensions has included assessments of assumptions used as a basis in the calculation of the pension obligations, control procedures of input data, effects of the transition to a new scheme for employees in Avinor Flysikring and an evaluation of external expertise used in the estimation of the obligations. We have, in particular: ► verified that assumptions related to inflation, discount interest and mortality are based on external and publicly available data from acknowledged organizations ► compared assumptions related to salary growth against the Group’s historical and expected future development ► assessed changes in assumptions for withdrawals of the early retirement scheme (AFP) and special age arrangement against historical information and expected future development ► considered the basis for increase in pension obligations related to future pension regulations and the accounting treatment of this change ► reviewed the data components used as a basis in the calculation of the pension obligations ► assessed basis and estimates for the exit of employees under the age of 53 from the Government Pension Fund ► evaluated the competence and objectivity of the Group’s external actuary ► considered whether the recognition of pensions complies with the relevant framework for financial reporting (IAS 19). Note 16 to the financial statements has additional information. Other information Other information consists of the information included in the Company’s annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (management) are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information, and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information, and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of management for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting, unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Independent auditor's report Avinor AS A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 131 3 Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with law, regulations and generally accepted auditing principles in Norway, including ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: ► identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; ► obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control; ► evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management; ► conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern; ► evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. ► obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on the Board of Directors’ report and on the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, it is our opinion that the information presented in the Board of Directors’ report and in the statements on corporate governance and corporate social responsibility concerning the financial statements, the going concern assumption and proposal for the allocation of the result is consistent with the financial statements and complies with the law and regulations. Independent auditor's report Avinor AS A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 132 AVINOR AS 4 Opinion on registration and documentation Based on our audit of the financial statements as described above, and control procedures we have considered necessary in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, it is our opinion that management has fulfilled its duty to ensure that the Company's accounting information is properly recorded and documented as required by law and bookkeeping standards and practices accepted in Norway. Oslo, 3 April 2019 ERNST & YOUNG AS Jan Wellum Svensen State Authorised Public Accountant (Norway) (This translation from Norwegian has been made for information purposes only.) Independent auditor's report Avinor AS A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 133 MORE ABOUT AVINOR Interim reports and annual reports Avinor publishes reports about its operations annually and quarterly. The interim reports present key figures and the financial statements, as well as a brief report on financial conditions. Avinor’s interim reports and annual reports are available on Avinor’s website. The Section 10 plan Section 10 of Avinor’s Articles of Association states that each year the board of directors must prepare a report to the Norwegian Ministry of Transport and Communications about the company’s overall operations, which include its plans for the future. The document is publicly available and is known as the Section 10 plan. At least once per parliamentary term (usually four years) Avinor’s Section 10 plan serves as the basis for a report to the Storting on Avinor’s operations. The last report to the Storting about Avinor was submitted in April 2017. Avinor’s contribution to the National Transport Plan The National Transport Plan (NTP) presents the Norwegian government’s transport policy. It lays the foundation for comprehensive political assessments, the efficient use of tools, and improved interaction between the different modes of transport. Aviation infrastructure forms part of the report. The NTP is discussed by the Committee for Transport and Communications, which presents its opinion to the Storting. The NTP for the period 2018 to 2029 was discussed in the Storting in the spring of 2017 and can be found at www.ntp.dep.no. Photo: Hans Olav Nygård (p. 21), AirBP (p.41), Fasett (p. 47), Catchlight Design and production: artbox.no Avinor is responsible for the 43 state-owned airports and air navigation services for civilian and military aviation in Norway. This network links Norway together – and links Norway to the world. Avinor is a driving force in environmental work in aviation and a driving force to reduce the combined greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian aviation. The company has a leading role in the work on developing and delivering biofuel for aircraft and the electrification of aviation. Every year, Avinor contributes to conducting safely and efficiently more than 50 million flights. About one half travel to and from Oslo airport More than 3,000 employees are responsible for planning, developing and operating airports and air navigation services. Avinor is funded by aviation fees and commercial sales at the airports. AVINOR AS Org.nr. 985 198 292 Dronning Eufemias gate 6 0191 Oslo Postboks 150 2061 Gardermoen avinor.no
