UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communications on Progress October 2019 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES WE Communications (WE) reaffirms its support of the company’s participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) initiative, as originally stated in our first Communication On Progress (COP) in 2011. As a company whose purpose is to use our gift of communications to move people to positive action in the world, we remain committed to responsible, sustainable business practices, contributing economically and socially to society, helping to conserve natural resources and positively contributing to the quality of life of our employees and communities. The company’s core values — imagination, courage, collaboration, purpose, excellence — are woven into the fabric of the company and align with the UNGC principles. WE has made steady and incremental advancements across the 10 principles and shown consistent support for initiatives that advance the shared interests and values outlined, including supporting the positive impact of our professionals through our volunteer and pro bono programs and educating and training employees on human-rights issues in the workplace. Within our influence, we remain committed to adhering to and advancing the Global Compact Ten Principles — with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption — and we are in it for the long term. Melissa Waggener Zorkin Global CEO and FounderWE Communications 2 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS; AND PRINCIPLE 2 MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES 3 3 WE promotes equal opportunities, diversity and a harassment-free workplace environment for all of our employees. WORK ENVIRONMENT WE is committed to creating and maintaining a safe, clean and healthy work environment. The company employs nondiscrimination personnel practices that promote equal opportunities, diversity and a harassment-free workplace environment for all our employees. WE provides professional development opportunities and industry-leading employment benefits to both full-time and part-time staff to support health, wellness and quality of life. The company tracks employee engagement, rates of injury and absenteeism and the number of work-related injuries and fatalities, and we have not registered any fatalities or injuries in the company’s history. COMMUNITY AND VOLUNTEERISM The company also protects and supports human rights through financial contributions, employee volunteering, community relations and pro bono services, with the goal of helping develop and sustain communities in partnership with nongovernmental organizations, especially those focused on education and economic empowerment. WE makes monetary and time-based donations to charitable organizations around the globe. WE continues to support and mobilize corporate volunteers to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the year 2030. The company is focused on these three SDGs: No Poverty (SDG1), Good Health (SDG3) and Quality Education (SDG4). WE employees are eligible to take up to 16 paid hours per year to volunteer for nonprofit organizations of their choosing. In 2018–2019, 48% of employees used all or part of their volunteer benefit and collectively spent more than 2,400 hours volunteering for causes that matter most to them. Employees use their volunteer hours via WE-facilitated team events and campaigns or individually via skilled or general service. In addition, this year we united a large representation of our offices worldwide for our Month of Giving. We supported education-focused nonprofits, and more than 300 of our employees spent more than 900 hours supporting after-school programs, STEM coding, financial literacy, and community environmental education programs and initiatives. For the third year, the company continues to partner with Pyxera Global to provide a Global Pro Bono Experience, a program that sends a small group of employees on a monthlong pro bono volunteering experience. This year employees will travel to Bogota, Colombia, where they will use their professional skills to benefit education organizations focused on basic literacy and numeracy skills, youth skills and job readiness or skilling or re-skilling adults—depending on the specific needs of the community. 4 EMPOWERMENT WE South Africa continues to support the WE Development Trust, which forms part of WE South Africa’s broader B-BBEE initiative, which represents an all-encompassing, 360 degree approach to empowerment built on the pillars of enterprise development, supplier development, skills development and social development. The WE Development Trust partners with the St Mary’s Foundation to educate previously disadvantaged black female scholars at one of the country’s leading private schools. SCHOLARSHIP The Pam Edstrom Scholarship Fund continues to be distributed in the form of scholarships to up to four students annually at the University of Washington (UW) and University of Oregon (UO). The initiative supports and promotes the company’s shared belief in the importance of education and will help those with passion to grow and find their own place in the world. Annually the company applies its strategic business insight and expertise to collaborate with NGOs on pro bono initiatives that address global and local issues. This translates into more empowered and healthier individuals, more educated children and stronger economic opportunity. 5 LABOR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING; PRINCIPLE 4 THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR; AND PRINCIPLE 6 THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT TO EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION. 6 6 LABOR AND ETHICS Working and living in accordance with strong ethical values is important to everyone working at WE. The company supports the right of employees to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining in adherence with local laws. Our business expansion strategy and process involves assessing local and national laws and norms to ensure compliance to, adherence to, and support of local cultures and labor laws. Child labor and forced, compulsory labor issues are not material risks to our business, and both are unacceptable to the company. EMPLOYEES AND CONDUCT All WE employees are employed of their own freewill; contracts state the terms and conditions pertaining to employment and provide for the parties’ rights to terminate the employment relationship (general procedures associated with departures are posted on the corporate intranet site). WE’s code of conduct incorporates references to key labor issues identified by the UNGC, including discrimination and harassment. Every employee is required to acknowledge the code and complete an online training to certify their understanding, and their commitment to comply with it. MANDATORY AND ELECTIVE TRAINING WE measures the outcomes of initiatives associated with labor rights by setting goals and measuring initiatives’ success against the goals for mandatory employee training about policies and procedures concerning labor rights and tracking gender metrics. As of June 30, 2019, 90% of North America employees completed Anti-Harassment training (up to two hours per employee depending on managerial responsibilities) and 90% of global employees completed Code of Conduct training. As of June 30, 2019, 76% of North America employees have completed the opt-in online unconscious bias training. DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION The company is committed to creating an inclusive workplace where differing perspectives, experiences, lifestyles and cultures are embraced and respected. The differences among individuals are valued, and diversity within our workforce is welcomed. We support and obey laws that prohibit discrimination everywhere we do business and are committed to ensuring opportunities for all employees to develop their abilities and contribute to WE’s success. WE has an equal opportunity hiring and recruiting policy to support the company’s commitment to attracting and retaining a diverse community of employees, a critical aspect of our business. The company’s diversity, inclusion and equity strategy is built around three-pillars: connection, culture and community. In March 2019, the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) designated WE Communications a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality in its 2019 Corporate Equality Index (CEI). The HRC evaluation looks at how companies support LGBTQ employees at work and in the community. The company achieved a 100 out of 100-point score rating, attributed to the companywide prioritization of equity, inclusion and justice. 7 The company is committed to creating an inclusive workplace where differing perspectives, experiences, lifestyles and cultures are embraced and respected. WE’s diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) strategies are designed to strengthen an inclusive and equitable workplace and society. The WE Employee Diversity and Inclusion Council is the core governance body, sponsored and led by our chief talent officer. The group is composed of representatives across all levels of the organization and serves as a brain trust for companywide initiatives. EMPLOYEE RESOURCE GROUPS The mission of our WE Pride employee resource group (ERG) is to foster a community among LGBTQ and ally employees of WE as well as partnerships with organizations that advocate for and advance social justice, diversity and inclusion. WE has also established a second ERG called WE Prism, designed to create a safe place where employees of different cultures, races and ethnic backgrounds and their allies can come together to learn, support and advocate for each other. TRACKING DIVERSITY WE tracks the ethnic and gender diversity of its employees. The company does not — and legally it cannot — require its employees to disclose their ethnicity, but the nondisclosed missing data is estimated by a human resources representative as required by U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission reporting guidelines, and for reporting purposes globally. Currently, 90% of WE’s U.S. diversity data is self-reported, and the remaining 10% is estimated. Globally, 32% is estimated. Global Gender Global Ethnic U.S. Ethnic DIVERSITY DIVERSITY DIVERSITY 75% WOMEN 40% NONWHITE 23% NONWHITE 25% MEN 60% WHITE 77% WHITE 8 THE ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES; PRINCIPLE 8 UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY; AND PRINCIPLE 9 ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES. 9 9 Since 2008, WE has measured its annual carbon footprint with the goal of identifying and tracking material aspects of its business and ways to continually reduce or minimize its impact on the environment and increase cost efficiencies. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTIONS In 2018–2019, WE achieved a 34% reduction in its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its 2008 baseline. Total GHG emissions were 2,804 metric tons of CO2 equivalents in 2018–2019, which equates to an average of 3.3 metric tons per employee (versus 5.1 metric tons per employee in 2008). MINIMIZING TRAVEL As WE relies heavily on travel to deliver services to our clients, we are committed to decreasing emissions while achieving revenue goals. This is a challenging area that WE continues to monitor and seek cost-effective, sustainable and alternate solutions for that would have a substantial impact on the environment while supporting the company’s positive bottom-line performance. Business travel accounts for 52% of the company’s emissions. The company promotes a work-from-home policy to maximize employee productivity, incentivizes the use of public transportation, and employs videoconferencing and audioconferencing services as a substitute for travel when appropriate. OFFICES AND FACILITIES The company’s leased offices and facilities are designed based on an eight-point metric to measure the general sustainability practices of our offices worldwide, make decisions, select vendors and balance costs. The company continues to integrate sustainable business practices into decisions about our operations, technology investments, travel options, partners and more. 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESSES SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY. 11 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION WE is committed to working against corruption in all its forms, including bribery and extortion, and is committed to being in compliance with all relevant laws in the countries where it operates. In addition to other policies, the company’s code of conduct sets clear standards that require employees’ acknowledgement and compliance. ENGAGING EMPLOYEES As a professional services company, employees have an active role in facilitating discussions and disseminating information between a variety of stakeholders on behalf of clients, including, but not limited to, media, online influencers, customers and nongovernmental organizations. Integrity shapes the services the company provides, supports the quality of the work we produce and drives the decisions we make. It is key to the relationships that WE and its employees maintain. CLEAN RECORD The company continues to pride itself on a clean record. Since the last COP, there have not been any recorded incidents of corruption involving WE employees, clients or stakeholder relationships; therefore, no actions were necessary. WE is equipped to respond if corruption, including extortion and bribery, occurs. The company has a disciplinary procedure in place should such a situation arise. Information about the handling and process of dealing with anti-corruption matters are addressed in the employee handbook and would be managed under the guidance of human resource business partners, who are assigned to each business group. ABOUT THIS REPORT The COP 2018–2019 provides brief highlights of actions that WE is taking on a global basis to address UNGC principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. For more details about WE, visit http://we-worldwide.com. This report will be published on the Global Compact website and the WE website. The report highlights relevant initiatives and progress between July 1, 2018, and June 30, 2019, with exceptions where noted. ABOUT WE WE works with some of the most innovative companies on the planet — those focused on delivering the next big thing. With a media landscape that is moving, pulsing and constantly evolving, brands must navigate everything from industry disruption and technology shifts to stakeholder mandates and political headwinds. In turn, brand stories have to move with new velocity and sync across every device and platform. Using our Momentum methodology, we partner with clients to create transformative communications that are rooted in insight and drive impact. Our fiercely independent mindset allows us the freedom to bring together the best talent, ideas and partners, through our revolutionary partnership approach, The PLUS Network, to create powerful, persuasive campaigns. http://www.we-worldwide.com Copyright © 2019 WE Communications (WE) Inc. All Rights Reserved. 12
