KSB Group Annual Report 2018 KSB Profile: KSB is a leading supplier of pumps, valves and ­related support services. Our reliable, high-efficiency products are used in applications worldwide where fluids need to be transported or shut off, covering everything from building services, industry and water transport to waste water treatment, power plant processes and mining. Wherever our customers are in the world, 170 service centres are on hand to provide local inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair services under the KSB SupremeServ brand. Innovative technology that is the fruit of KSB’s research and development activities forms the basis for the company’s success and that of our customers. Group Financial Highlights BU S I N E S S D E V E L O P MENT A ND EA R NINGS 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Order intake €m 2,303.5 2,265.3 2,156.6 2,261.2 2,321.2 Sales revenue €m 2,245.9 2,205.0 2,165.7 2,334.8 2,181.7 Orders on hand €m 1,353.9 1,260.8 1,200.6 1,209.7 1,283.3 Earnings before finance income / expense, income tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA ) €m 179.2 186.9 162.6 176.5 155.6 Earnings before finance income / expense and income tax (EBIT ) €m 74.7 116.4* 90.0* 103.7* 89.4#* Earnings before income tax (EBT ) €m 65.6 104.2 74.6 93.4 72.8# Earnings after income tax €m 23.9 52.1 47.8 52.2 46.3# Free cash flow (cash flows from operating ­a ctivities + cash flows from investing activities) €m – 29.1 112.5 20.5 82.1 – 9.3 BA L A N C E S H E E T 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Balance sheet total €m 2,242.2 2,253.4 2,350.2 2,291.1 2,277.9# Capital expenditure €m 79.6 101.9 82.2 82.8 85.1 Depreciation and amortisation €m 104.5 70.6 72.6 72.8 66.2 Net financial position €m 255.0 288.0 259.5 211.3 185.5 Equity (incl. non-controlling interests) €m 856.8 885.4 890.3 870.2 819.7# Equity ratio (incl. non-controlling interests) % 38.2 39.3 37.9 38.0 36.0# PR O F I TA B I L I T Y 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 EBT margin (return on sales) % 2.9 4.7 3.5 4.0 3.3 EBIT margin (sales revenue in relation to EBIT ) % 3.3 5.3 4.2 4.4 4.1 E M P L OY E E S 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Number of employees at 31 Dec. 15,713 15,455 15,572 16,196 16,309 SHARES 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Market capitalisation at 31 Dec. €m 491.3 884.4 637.7 659.2 735.7 Earnings per ordinary no-par-value share (EPS ) € 6.26 21.10 18.68 22.30 21.97# Earnings per preference no-par-value share (EPS ) € 6.64 21.36 18.94 22.56 22.23# Dividend per ordinary no-par-value share € 3.00 7.50 5.50 5.50 8.50 Dividend per preference no-par-value share € 3.38 7.76 5.76 5.76 8.76 In the current year, the following key indicators were included in the overview: orders on hand, earnings before finance income / expense, income tax, depreciation and amortisation, free cash flow, net financial position and EBIT margin. Cash flow, fixed assets, current assets, return on equity, return on capital employed and staff costs are no longer presented as key indicators. # Restated under IAS 8 * Restated retrospectively due to new definition of EBIT as earnings before finance income / expense and income tax (previously earnings before interest and income tax) Further information is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Fields of application for our products KSB pumps and valves are primarily used to transport or shut off all kinds of fluid. Their efficient and reliable operation is taken care of by 3,000 service specialists worldwide offering inspection, servicing, maintenance, repairs and consultancy services. The most important fields of application for our products are: Key Indicators / Markets GENERAL OIL & GAS WATER / INDUSTRY WASTE WATER ENERGY MINING CONSTRUCTION / BUILDING SERVICES The KSB SupremeServ brand is driven by the ambition to offer our customers the best quality service worldwide, including the prompt provision of all required spare parts. We develop innovative services based on digital technologies that increase the reliability and efficiency of systems for fluid transport. Global Reach. KSB is a leading supplier of pumps, valves and related support services – Global Reach around the world and in a wide variety of sectors. Whether used in industry and power plant engineering, water and waste water management, building services or mining: Group Management Report Our high-quality products and bespoke ­services support our customers in making everyday life easier for people all over the world. KSB is thus further expanding its ­leading position in attractive markets – for sustained profitable growth. Consolidated Financial Statements General Information 2 1 4 Management and Issues 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 4 Management 112 Balance Sheet 6 To Our Shareholders 113 Statement of Comprehensive Income 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 114 Statement of Changes in Equity 16 A Look Back at 2018 116 Statement of Cash Flows 20 Corporate Social Responsibility 117 Notes (Combined Separate Non-financial Report) 181 List of Shareholdings 185 Supervisory Board 2 186 Legal Representatives 187 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA Global Reach 36 38 44 Overview Industry in South East Asia Water for North Africa 5 50 Electricity for India General Information 56 Copper from Chile 62 Living in Dubai 190 Responsibility Statement 68 Oil and Gas Worldwide 191 Independent Auditor’s Report 203 Glossary 3 204 Contacts Cover Group Management Report Group Financial Highlights 76 Basic Principles of the Group Fields of Application for Our Products 76 Group Business Model Global Presence 77 Control System Financial Calendar 78 Research and Development 79 Economic Review 79 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View Key to Symbols 81 Business Development and Results of Operations Glossary 84 Financial Position and Net Assets Reference to table 88 Summary of the Performance in the Financial Year 89 Dependent Company Report 90 Report on Expected Developments 93 Opportunities and Risks Report 104 Acquisition-related Disclosures 106 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 315d HGB in Conjunction with Section 289f HGB) 107 Statement on the Non-financial Report (Sections 315b, 315c in Conjunction with Sections 289b to 289e HGB) 108 Remuneration Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 3 Management and Issues 2018 1 Global Reach Group Management Report Management Consolidated Financial Statements and Issues 2018 4 Management 6 To Our Shareholders 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 16 A Look Back at 2018 20 Corporate Social Responsibility General Information (Combined Separate Non-financial Report) 4 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management Ralf Kannefass Dr Matthias Schmitz In his role as Managing Director of KSB As Managing Director of KSB Management SE, ­Management SE, Ralf Kannefass is responsible Matthias Schmitz is in charge of Controlling, for Sales and Service worldwide and for the Finance, Information Technology and Global development of the KSB SupremeServ brand. Procurement. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 5 Management Management Dr Stephan Timmermann Dr Stephan Bross In his position as Managing Director of As Managing Director of KSB Management SE, KSB Management SE and CEO, Stephan Stephan Bross is responsible for Technology as Timmermann’s responsibilities include well as the Corporate Unit Pumps and the Strategy, Human Resources, Communications, Corporate Unit Valves. His areas of responsibility Legal and Compliance. also include Production. 6 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 To Our Shareholders Dr Stephan Timmermann Dear Shareholders and Business Partners, 2018 was the first year in which we, the new Management team of KSB, took charge of shaping the future of our company. Unfortunately the earnings achieved by our company remained significantly below the targets we had set ourselves and were also very disappointing with regard to our performance for shareholders. However, in view of the political and economic environment and the measures initiated, we are generally satisfied with the 2018 financial year. KSB’s order intake increased by € 38.2 million to € 2,303.5 million and sales revenue by € 41.0 million to € 2,245.9 million. Without currency translation effects, our order intake of € 2,399.5 million and sales revenue of € 2,338.5 million would have been significantly higher than in 2017 and in line with our forecasts. 2018 was also the year in which we had to make high provisions and write-downs to account for both impairment risks and and current political developments. In addition to the previously reported provisions for a large project in Great Britain, these included impairment losses on part of our activities in South Korea and France and provisions for the current Iran business. We are charting a course for sustainable growth. We are confident that by sharpening our focus as a company, we will be able to achieve longterm growth. Therefore, we are currently analysing our markets with the objective of better aligning our product portfolio with the segments that offer us the greatest potential for profitable growth. On this basis, we will develop an ambitious structural and growth programme in order to sustainably increase our profitability. This includes measures for improving our efficiency and quality as well as for modernising the image and appearance of our locations. By investing in our infrastructure, we are also making ourselves a more attractive employer. Our aim is for 2019 to be a year in which we can make further progress with our financial figures. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 7 To Our Shareholders We are improving structures and processes. We will initiate a series of measures to sustainably improve our cost situation. To this end, we will be continuing to consolidate our production network, streamline our production units and reduce the large variety of type series. Our goal is to scale down the high complexity of our product portfolio in order to cut costs, however without significantly limiting what we offer our customers. In the field of electronic sales, we already have a Web Shop which sets the standard in our ­industry. A 70-strong e-sales team is currently working on implementing an end-to-end sales process for our standard products which will cover the entire customer journey. From summer 2019, we will then have an integrated platform solution with product catalogues and configurators allowing our customers to easily and conveniently select and order their products, all in a digital environment. This system will put us in a leading position ahead of our competitors in the area of electronic sales. We offer innovative services. Under the KSB SupremeServ brand name, we are taking our global service to a new professional level that goes far beyond the standard services of inspection, maintenance and repair while placing a greater strategic focus on our spare parts business. Retrofit measures for high energy savings, reverse engineering solutions for efficiently reproducing components without design drawings, additive manufacturing of spare parts via 3D printing and data glasses for remote guidance with service work – these methods and processes are a testimony to our position as technology leader for activities in the Service segment. This is what our our new brand name, KSB SupremeServ, stands for. Our Business Innovation Lab , which was ranked by a German business magazine as one of the “Best German digital labs” in 2017, supports KSB SupremeServ with new product ideas and business models. Digital technologies and smart sensors provide the basis for our customers to check the status of their pumps and valves using cloud-based system data. They can then make informed decisions about scheduling professional service work and replacing spare parts. We work with the best worldwide. The KSB brand stands for technical excellence, but it is above all our employees that play the decisive role in customer satisfaction. Highly qualified and committed, they ensure that new customers become regular customers – and remain so. By pursuing this goal, we are stepping up our commitment to strengthening the professional qualifications and training of our employees around the world. At the same time, we are creating an inspiring and motivating work environment. This will also help us to recruit young skilled personnel to meet the challenges of the future. In 2018, our training programme once again resulted in us being ranked as one of “Germany’s best training companies” among 600 training companies. We intend to conquer the market with the best employees and the best products. Combined with our new growth programme, over the coming years we will expand our business worldwide and increase profitability. We would like to take this opportunity to show you – our shareholders and business partners – that it is clearly worth investing in KSB. We are confident that the measures initiated will ensure that our company continues to develop successfully and sustainably. Dr Stephan Timmermann, CEO 8 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Report of the Supervisory Board Report of the Supervisory Board Dr Bernd Flohr (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Following the conversion of KSB Aktiengesellschaft into a partnership limited by shares (KGaA) [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien], which was decided at the Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2017 and became effective on 17 January 2018, KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal (Pfalz), (hereinafter referred to as the “company” or “KSB”) can now look back on almost an entire year in the new legal form. The management is the responsibility of the general partner, KSB Management SE , Frankenthal (Pfalz), acting through its Managing Directors. After the change in legal form, the Supervisory Board continued to extensively monitor the position and development of the company. We performed our tasks as set out by the law, the Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure with the greatest of diligence. We advised the general partner on corporate management issues and monitored its work. The Managing Directors informed us about current developments, including but not limited to the company’s business, financial and staffing situation, planned investments, corporate planning and strategy via written and oral reports prepared regularly and on an ad hoc basis in a comprehensive and timely manner. We met regularly to discuss selected issues without the Management. We discussed all business transactions which were significant for the company in depth on the basis of reports from the Managing Directors. Any departures in business developments from the plans and targets were explored by us and commented on in detail by the Managing Directors. The Supervisory Board involved external consultants in the treatment and assessment of special matters, and all decisions made by the Supervisory Board were based on thorough review and consultation. Beyond the intensive work in plenary sessions and in the committees, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in particular and other members of the Supervisory Board KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 9 Report of the Supervisory Board were in constant contact with the Managing Directors. There was a regular exchange of information with the Administrative Board of KSB Management SE, including but not limited to its Chairman, on current business developments and significant transactions, as well as on questions of strategy, planning, risk situations, risk management and compliance. The Chairman of the Administrative Board also took part in some of the Supervisory Board meetings. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and his deputy were guests of the Administrative Board on selected issues. Conflicts of interest of the Supervisory Board members Klaus Kühborth and Monika Kühborth within the scope of the relations covering the supply of services of KSB AG to its majority shareholder, Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenthal (Pfalz), as well as to other related parties, as discussed in the previous year’s report, have been disclosed to the Supervisory Board; both did not participate in discussions and the taking of resolutions on this subject area. In the reporting period, no other conflicts of interest arose involving members of the Super­ visory Board or the Management that would have been subject to disclosure in the Report of the Supervisory Board. Main Focus of Work in the Supervisory Board Plenary Sessions In the 2018 financial year (“year under review”), four regular Supervisory Board meetings and a constituent meeting were held; in addition, the Supervisory Board met twice to discuss special topics. The performance of the company and the KSB Group was the subject of regular discussions, with a particular focus on their business and employment situation, major investment projects and the strategic direction. Key topics of our consultations with the Managing Directors were the analysis of business ­developments in the different segments and regions and the company’s economic position. Suitable measures to improve the net assets, financial position and results of operations and risk provisioning for major projects, and the growth initiatives presented by the Managing Directors were discussed. The Supervisory Board received regular reports on measures to increase efficiency, including expanding the group-wide shared services activities and harmonising the international accounting processes. The Managing Directors also provided information on the development of ongoing major investments in our production facilities at various sites, and on their completion, where applicable. For example, work on the second expansion phase of our new factory in Shirwal, India, is progressing well and the halls completed in the first expansion phase are already showing high capacity utilisation levels. The Supervisory Board was also involved in the decision on the acquisition of the US service company Dubric; the primary aim is that it will contribute to a stronger presence for the KSB range of services in the American Midwest. In line with the recommendations and suggestions of the German Corporate Governance Code, we looked into fundamental aspects of good corporate governance, which in the year under review included assessing the efficiency of the work of the ­Supervisory Board. Special emphasis was placed on the further development of our corporate culture; there are various initiatives which aim to help ensure that KSB is in a good position in the challenging competition for specialists and young talent. 10 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Report of the Supervisory Board Topics discussed at the individual Supervisory Board meetings included the following: The meeting in March 2018 focused on the audit and approval of the annual financial statements for the 2017 financial year, including the management report and the combined separate non-financial report for KSB and the KSB Group in accordance with Sections 315b, 315c and 289c to 289e HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] (“non-financial report”); the auditors explained the key audit areas and results. The Chairman of the Audit Committee produced an extensive report on the audit carried out on accounting processes for the period. We agreed to the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings presented by the general partner for the 2017 financial year. In May 2018, we consulted on the current business situation and discussed in detail the risk provisioning for a major project in Great Britain which includes the supply of pumps for a deep waste water tunnel in London. The agenda included the progress on preparations for the certification of a newly developed large pump for the Chinese energy market and the potential for follow-up orders. A successful market launch for this kind of pump would strengthen KSB’s position there on a sustainable basis. Given the increasing significance of digital technologies, the Supervisory Board was also informed about the business models which have ­already been successfully implemented by KSB, and promising future opportunities. The September meeting of the Supervisory Board was held at the Pegnitz site in Bavaria, Germany. The site manager and the Managing Directors reported on the financial situation at the factory there. We were able to gain our own impressions of the recent investments to modernise the foundry and of other production facilities at the site, which confirmed the high level of technical development of the plant. Our valves business was another subject of extensive discussion, as this market is much more fragmented than that for pumps. The planned project to review the company’s strategic direction, which will come into focus in the current 2019 financial year, was also discussed. The agenda for the September meeting also included the concept for the review of the efficiency of the Supervisory Board’s work, in the form of a self-evaluation which was subsequently implemented. As well as the report on specific measures with impact on income in the 2018 financial year, the December meeting focused on planning for the 2019 financial year. The ways in which KSB can achieve the planned growth and increase profitability were presented in detail by the Managing Directors, including the basic methodological and strategic considerations. In the two special meetings of the Supervisory Board, in particular, we covered the status on reviewing the company’s supply of services to its majority shareholder and other related parties. The relevant issues were clarified with the assistance of external solicitors and tax consultants. After preparation by the Audit Committee, they supported the Supervisory Board with the in-depth consultation and mandatory review of potential claims by the company and their assertion. Significant compensation payments for services which were not sufficiently remunerated were demanded from the relevant recipients of the services, and these were also paid. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 11 Report of the Supervisory Board We additionally decided to assert claims against individual former members of the Board of Management and have taken the necessary steps to do this. Main Focus of Work in the Committees In order to perform its duties efficiently, the Supervisory Board worked with four committees during the year under review. These prepared the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the special topics to be discussed in the plenary sessions. In addition, they also made their own decisions – to the extent legally permissible – within the scope of their areas of responsibility. This allocation has proved worthwhile in practice. The Chairs of the committees regularly and comprehensively reported in the plenary sessions on the content and results of the work carried out in the committees. The Nomination Committee prepared proposals for the appointment of shareholder representatives to the Supervisory Board, for example the Supervisory Board’s nominations for the election of Supervisory Board members by last year’s Annual General Meeting. It met once during the year under review. In looking for and evaluating suitable candidates with the requisite expertise and experience of the industry, long-term succession planning is a key factor. CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE: Until 31 Jan. 2018 Dr Bernd Flohr, Chairman: Oswald Bubel Klaus Kühborth SUPERV I S ORY B OA R D From 21 March 2018 Meetings: 1 COMMITTEES Klaus Kühborth and their Chairs, as well as Meetings: 4 number of meetings in the year under review PERSONNEL COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE: Chairman: Dr Bernd Flohr Chairman: Klaus Burchards Meetings: 3 Meetings: 9 12 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Report of the Supervisory Board The Corporate Development Committee deals with the strategic development in the fields of technology, production and sales, among other things. It had four meetings in the year under review. The opportunities presented by digitalisation were discussed in depth with a view to establishing and expanding relevant business models in order to leverage the potential with our customers and along our own value creation chain. Against the backdrop of the continued relevance of energy efficiency, the Committee dealt with drive technology and the increasing use of mechatronic solutions. The agenda also included considerations on the flexible use of manufacturing capacities so far reserved for serving the energy market. There was also extensive discussion of special sales initiatives in individual sales markets. These include the food and beverage industries, which have been recording high rates of growth. The pumps and valves employed in the production facilities in these industries have to comply with strict hygiene requirements and allow gentle transport of fluids. The Committee also heard reports on current strategic developments. The Managing Directors and the managers of the specialist departments responsible regularly attended the Committee meetings. The Personnel Committee held three meetings in the year under review. It focuses on subjects and challenges relating to Human Resources activities within the Group. It also decides on the approval of any internal transactions with KSB Management SE, its Administrative Board members and / or its Managing Directors, on the consent to other activities of these persons, the granting of loans to them and on any matters related to the remuneration of the Super­ visory Board members. In the year under review, the Committee discussed with the specialist department responsible the plan for and the approach to the group-wide introduction of personnel administration and management software as well as measures to further improve the corporate culture and employer attractiveness. It also reviewed and approved agreements for the provision and billing of services by the company to KSB Management SE. The nine meetings of the Audit Committee during the year under review were generally attended by the Managing Directors involved and the managers of the relevant specialist departments, plus, on multiple occasions, the auditors. The Audit Committee discussed the 2017 annual and consolidated financial statements and the relevant audit reports submitted by the auditors. The non-financial report was also discussed in detail. The Committee prepared the independent examination by the Supervisory Board of the financial statements, the management reports and the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings. The Committee also discussed the half-year financial report for the year under review with the Managing Directors. In addition, the Audit Committee submitted a recommendation for the selection of auditors by last year’s Annual General Meeting to the plenary session. The Audit Committee commissioned the auditors with auditing the annual and consolidated financial statements for the 2018 financial year and defined specific key areas for the audit. The declaration of independence by the auditors was obtained in accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (Section 7.2.1), and the auditors’ continued independence and performance of non-audit services were monitored. The Committee also focused on monitoring accounting, the accounting process, the risk management system – taking into account the relevant reports from Internal Audits – and the effectiveness of the internal control and auditing system, includKSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 13 Report of the Supervisory Board ing compliance and the auditing of the annual financial statements. In this context, the Committee dealt in detail with the company’s supply of services to its majority shareholder and other related parties and prepared decisions in this respect to be put forward to the Super­ visory Board. The agenda also included projects with a material impact on the net assets, financial position and results of operations as well as measures to increase efficiency. Corporate Governance and Statement of Compliance The Supervisory Board continuously monitored developments in corporate governance standards throughout the year under review. The general partner, acting through its Managing ­Directors, and the Supervisory Board reported on corporate governance at KSB in accordance with Section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code as part of the Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to Sections 289f (2 and 3) and 315d HGB. On 13 March 2019 they issued a joint updated Statement of Compliance in accordance with Section 161 AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] and made it permanently available to shareholders on the company’s web site. The company complied with the German Corporate Governance Code’s recommendations subject to a few justified exceptions. Audit of the 2018 Annual and Consolidated Financial Statements The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB SE & Co. KGaA for the year ended 31 December 2018, which were prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch (HGB), as well as the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2018, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), and the proposal by the general partner on the appropriation of the net retained earnings. This also applies to the non-financial report. PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, based in Frankfurt am Main with an office in Mannheim, audited the annual financial statements and the management ­report of KSB SE & Co. KGaA for the year ended 31 December 2018, as well as the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2018, and issued an unqualified opinion for each. The key audit areas defined for the auditors by the Audit Committee for the year under review mainly included the annual impairment test for goodwill and property, plant and equipment in the consolidated financial statements as well as the reporting on and presentation of transactions with related parties in the single-­ entity financial statements. The non-financial report was reviewed. The auditors reported on their findings on these key audit areas both orally and in writing. The accounting documentation, the proposal by the general partner on the appropriation of the net retained earnings, the non-financial report and the audit reports submitted by the ­auditors were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board. They were discussed in detail by the Audit Committee, especially on 13 March 2019, as well as in the 14 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Report of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board plenary session on 20 March 2019, and explained in depth by the Managing Directors of the general partner. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Following the final result of the examination by the Audit Committee and its own review, the Supervisory Board raised no objections to the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, management report and Group management report, as well as the non-financial report. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Supervisory Board approved the annual ­financial statements prepared by the general partner. The proposal of the general partner on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA, and in particular the reduction of the dividend to € 3.00 per ordinary no-par-value share and € 3.38 per preference no-par-value share, is deemed to be appropriate by the Supervisory Board in accordance with its own review; it concurs with the proposal. Dependent Company Report The general partner was obliged to produce a dependent company report in accordance with Section 312 AktG until the new legal form became effective on 17 January 2018. This obli­ gation no longer applies for the period starting on the effective date of the change of legal form. However, KSB decided to prepare this report beyond the statutory period for the full 2018 financial year in order to review and document the effectiveness of the measures taken in relation to business with dependent companies. The report was reviewed by the auditors, who issued the following unqualified opinion: “On completion of our audit and assessment in accordance with professional standards, we confirm that 1. The actual amounts and disclosures in the report are correct. 2. The consideration paid by the company for the transactions listed in the report was not inappropriately high.” The report of the general partner and the audit report were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board and were also discussed by the Audit Committee and in plenary sessions. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the material findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Both the recommendation by the Audit Committee and the final results of the Supervisory Board plenary session’s examination did not give rise KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 15 Report of the Supervisory Board to any objections to the dependent company report prepared by the general partner and to the statement by the general partner at the end of the dependent company report. Changes in the Supervisory Board and the Management In the year under review, Monika Kühborth and Oswald Bubel resigned from their office as members of the Supervisory Board as of the end of January in order to focus on their respon­ sibilities in the Administrative Board of KSB Management SE . In their place, Arturo Esquinca and Prof. Dr.-Ing. Corinna Salander were appointed to the Supervisory Board first by order of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein on 26 February 2018 and then by the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2018. Following the results of the election of new employee representatives to the Supervisory Board, the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2016 appointed Thomas Pabst and Claudia Augustin in place of the departing Dr H. Stefan Wiß and Wolfgang Kormann. At a constituent Supervisory Board meeting which immediately followed the Annual General Meeting, Dr Bernd Flohr was confirmed in his office as Chairman of the Supervisory Board and Alois Lautner in his office as Deputy Chairman. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Managing Directors and the Administrative Board of the general partner, the employees and employee representatives of all Group com­ panies for their continued constructive and committed work during the past financial year. Frankenthal, 20 March 2019 The Supervisory Board 16 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 A Look Back A Look Back at 2018 Q1 WASTE WATER PUMPS The demand for pumps for large-scale waste water treatment plants is increasing worldwide. KSB therefore decides to extend its Sewatec types series by adding 15 new sizes. The largest pump set handles 33,000 cubic metres of waste water per second and has a drive rating of over one megaCHANGE IN COMPANY NAME watt. KSB AG adopts a new legal form and a new name: KSB SE & Co. KGaA. The partnership limited by shares [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien (KGaA)] is operationally managed by four Managing Directors who organisationally belong to KSB Management SE. An Administrative Board sets the corporate and strategic guidelines and monitors their implementation. YOUNG RESEARCHERS At the KSB training workshop in Frankenthal (Pfalz), 95 school pupils present their projects for “Jugend forscht”, a regional competition for young researchers. This is the sixth time that KSB has hosted this event. PAKISTAN At its production site in Hassanabdal, KSB upgrades the foundry by adding a fully automatic and environmentally friendly system to increase its melting and moulding capacities. SERVICE EXPANSION IN THE USA In order to expand its service network, KSB acquires DUBRIC INVESTMENTS IN THE GROUP HEADQUARTERS Industries Inc. in the USA. The company’s headquarters are Extensive refurbishment and restructuring work begins at located in Comstock Park, Michigan, between Detroit and the Group headquarters in Frankenthal (Pfalz). KSB invests Chicago. Founded in 1974, the company specialises in suparound ten million euros to improve the building structure port services for pumps and other rotating equipment. and create an attractive work environment for employees. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 17 A Look Back Q2 SERVICE IN RIYADH KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., a joint venture of KSB and Abunayyan Holding, inaugurates its new service workshop in Riyadh on the occasion of the company’s 25th anniversary. Over the last three years, KSB has invested more than € 10 million in the expansion and renovation of the 600 m² service centre. Its employees service and repair pumps and valves for all areas of application. Many industrial companies are located in the Saudi Arabian capital. ACCOLADE FOR TRAINING KSB is ranked one of “Germany’s best training companies” ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING for the second time since 2017. A study commissioned by KSB commissions a large metal and laser melting system for Deutschland Test and the business magazine Focus Money additive manufacturing in Pegnitz. Based on specifications evaluated the training quality of 20,000 companies in difin a data record, a laser melts metal powder on a platform, ferent industries. KSB is ranked ninth out of 58 mechanical creating components layer by layer. Costing around € 2 milengineering companies. lion, the system unlocks new design possibilities for materials and foundry technology. AUGMENTED REALITY SERVICE At the ACHEMA industry trade fair in Frankfurt, KSB preTRADE FAIR FIRST sents a new service concept based on Augmented Reality . KSB positions itself at IFAT in Munich with smart products The concept involves visualising information in addition to and services for the water and waste water industry. One of electronic real-time images. Via data glasses, KSB service enthe highlights is the KSB Guard pump monitoring system gineers and operating staff receive remote guidance which which sends current operating data to the KSB Cloud. This enables them to carry out maintenance measures. They can data can then be used to check the status of a pump at any also identify spare parts and initiate the ordering process. time, for example via an app. 18 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 A Look Back Q3 DIGITAL COMMUNICATION KSB starts selling Bluetooth gateways. KSB service specialists use these devices for commissioning and service assignments. An app enables wireless communication with variable speed pump systems. Service engineers and operators can use the app to select their required settings and set up alert messages. The KSB product and spare parts catalogue can also be accessed via the app. NEW CHANNELS MAJOR ORDER To recruit creative minds for a successful digital future, KSB KSB lands an order worth several million euros for 280 directly addresses prospective applicants via social networks. high-pressure valves and spare parts for two steam power At a Talent Challenge Day at the beginning of July, KSB tests plants located in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India. The a new selection process for the first time in which applicants products will be supplied by KSB factories in Pegnitz (Gerare asked to find creative solutions to interesting problems. many), Coimbatore and Mala (both in India). Delivery will be completed by September 2019. VISIT BY MINISTER The Minister of Economic Affairs of the State of RhineDISASTER RELIEF land-Palatinate, Dr Volker Wissing, visits the Frankenthal After heavy rainfalls, the city of Alappuzha in the South site to find out about digitalisation at KSB . Members of Indian state of Kerala becomes severely flooded. KSB Management also report on how the company is advancing quickly provides help through the provision of water and its service portfolio and vocational training. waste water pumps. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 19 A Look Back Q4 MAINTENANCE INSPECTION KSB Service performs comprehensive maintenance inspection work on valves at two German plants of a mineral oil company. The work takes several weeks and is carried out in plants for manufacturing fuels and petrochemical base materials. Maintenance inspections are an important element in the broad range of services offered under the KSB SupremeServ brand. POLAND A PUMP OF SUPERLATIVES Since its foundation in 1993, KSB Polska Sp. z o.o. has KSB wins the contract to produce the world’s largest boiler developed into a company employing around 100 staff. feed pump for the new Pingshan II coal-fired power plant The company celebrates its 25th anniversary on 19 October. in Huaibei, China. Driven by two steam turbines, the pump KSB is represented in Poland with three sales branches and set will have an input power of more than 50 megawatts two service centres. A third service centre is currently being with a maximum pressure of 400 bar. The pump will transset up. port 5,150 cubic metres of water per hour. US PREMIERE WELL PUMPS FOR SUDAN KSB presents the new KSB SupremeServ service brand at In December KSB delivers the first of over 1,000 well pumps the Turbomachinery & Pump symposium in Houston. The to Sudan. The pump sets will be used for irrigation in agribrand name stands for services such as installation, comculture. The slim submersible borehole pumps transport missioning and inspection, fast spare parts delivery and groundwater from deep below ground. modernisation. 20 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Combined separate non-financial report We understand sustainability to mean a focus on environBy signing the UN Global Compact in 2010, we committed mental, economic and social values. As well as the responsiourselves to aligning our business activities with ten univerble use of resources and the environment, this also includes sal principles. But it is not only our managers and employees our responsibility to our employees and our social commitwho endorse the principles of the Global Compact – our ment. We present these issues in a combined separate non-­ suppliers and business partners also share these commitfinancial report pursuant to Sections 315b and 315c in conments. We ask our strategically most important business junction with Sections 289b to 289e HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch partners whether and to what extent they use these or com– German Commercial Code]. The report fulfils the requireparable standards as a source of orientation. ments of the CSR Directive Implementation Act [CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz] and combines the statement at comKSB ’s sustainability principles are binding for all locations pany level with the Group statement outside of the and companies of the KSB Group. These principles are set management report. forth in our sustainability policy which applies to the entire Group. A committee chaired by a member of Management The concepts outlined here apply to both the Group and to regularly reviews progress in these areas. Management also KSB SE & Co. KGaA; any instances where this is not the case receives a compliance report twice a year as well as an anare duly indicated. All information in the non-financial renual review of management issues relating to quality, the port relates to KSB SE & Co. KGaA and the Group in 2018. environment and occupational health and safety. References to information not included in the group management report and any captions in this section represent KSB operates a globally integrated management system in supplementary information and are not part of the separate order to fulfil the same high standards worldwide with renon-financial report. PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH gard to quality, risk, environment, occupational health and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft performed a limited assursafety, and sustainability. The management system is proance engagement on the information in this report in accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised) and issued an independent assurance report. In the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption, the concepts and activities set out 104 in this report follow the principles of the UN Global Compact . In accordance with our business model, we aim to supply customers worldwide with high-quality pumps and valves, as well as related support services. The vast majority of our products are developed in-house and are manufactured in factories on four continents. Our products are sold via our KSB has actively or financially contributed at own sales organisation, supported by dealer networks comleast € 5,000 each to 104 social projects. posed of selected partners. KSB’s business model is presented in our group management report on page 76. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Key sustainability topics for KSB Environment Society Business Very high Respecting human rights Resource efficiency Equal opportunities Energy-efficient products Emissions Relevance for stakeholders Compliance Education and training Sustainability in the supply chain Product reliability Social responsibility Occupational health and safety High Very high Relevance for KSB cess-oriented and complies with the requirements of the inprevious year. The aspects and factors necessary for underternational ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and ISO standing the development and performance of the business 26000 standards as well as the UN Global Compact . It and the position of the company as well as the impact of our governs the organisational processes and workflows, responactivities on the following issues remain the same: sibilities, procedures and processes at Group level and at our individual locations. Environment (resource efficiency, manufacturing of ­energy-efficient products, emissions and product safety) We continually assess the requirements and expectations of Combating corruption and bribery (compliance) the various stakeholders with regard to our company. In Respecting human rights (sustainability in the supply 2018, specialist departments and our sustainability commitchain) tee – with the involvement of Management – reviewed and Employee concerns (training and development, equal confirmed the key sustainability topics defined for KSB in the ­opportunities, occupational health and safety) 22 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility STATE OF THE ART: KSB takes ecological aspects into account when planning and building plants. The newly established production facility in Moscow meets the requirements for environmentally friendly construction. With modern insulation, an efficient heating system and insulated windows, we keep the new plant’s energy requirements to a minimum. This enables us to not only conserve resources but also to reduce our operating costs. KSB is currently carrying out energy-­ efficient refurbishments of its buildings to reduce energy consumption and CO² emissions. Regular energy audits of our European locations help to achieve this. New KSB plant in Moscow HEALTHY RIGHT FROM THE START: To promote health awareness of its youngest employees, KSB organises an annual AzubiFit seminar at its Halle location. Aimed at trainees in their first year at KSB, the seminar teaches junior staff how to stay healthy and fit. KSB takes a holistic approach to implementing its company health management system. We know that good physical and mental health are essential for our employees to deliver their very best performance for our clients. Apprentices from Halle in the fitness centre KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Energy consumption Total KSB SE & Co. KGaA Europe*** Asia / Pacific Americas Middle East / Africa Total energy consumption* 283,139 MWh 92,703 MWh 136,874 MWh 35,549 MWh 96,519 MWh 14,197 MWh Total electricity** 160,803 MWh 37,488 MWh 56,339 MWh 30,778 MWh 61,978 MWh 11,708 MWh Electricity from renewables 51,135 MWh 19,158 MWh 23,259 MWh 5,208 MWh 19,688 MWh 2,980 MWh CO ² emissions 101,339 t 21,215 t 29,555 t 28,139 t 35,860 t 7,785 t * Electricity, gas, fuel oil, district heating, wood, etc. ** Total deviates due to rounding *** Including KSB SE & Co. KGaA These issues are directly related to our manufacturing activThe non-financial report – unless otherwise stated – encomities, our products, our business partners and our employees. passes 28 key companies within the KSB Group. We have Our products also directly contribute towards protecting the chosen these companies due to their impact in terms of asenvironment, for example, by saving energy or through their pects such as energy consumption and the percentage of emuse in waste water treatment applications. ployees involved. The 28 Group companies include all consolidated subsidiaries with production plants and two service KSB’s corporate responsibility includes our commitment to companies with energy-intensive workshops. society. This section is an entirely voluntary report on our social engagement activities which do not have any direct or material impact on our business success. Environment As a manufacturing company, we act responsibly when using KSB does not see any material risks, as assessed based on the natural resources. Our goal is to minimise the impact on the net evaluation method, associated with our own business or environment and reduce energy consumption to a minimum. the business relations of the company, its products and serIn this way, we not only conserve natural resources, but also vices which have or could have a serious negative impact on increase the cost-effectiveness of our products through lownon-financial aspects, like the environment, anti-corruption, er raw material costs. Furthermore, we avoid economic and human rights, employee concerns and social issues. All other legal risks which could potentially result from environmental risks with an impact on our business activities are described damage and failure to comply with laws and regulations. in the group management report from page 96. 24 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Percentage of renewable energy & Co. KGaA: 51.0 %) of the energy we consumed came from in our power consumption: renewable sources. This percentage decreased by 1.5 for the entire Group compared with the previous year, a result which 31.8 is primarily due to higher electricity consumption in the USA, where our subsidiary GIW Industries, Inc. operates an energy-intensive foundry. As the share of renewable energies in the USA, at 12.5 %, is far below the Group average, the increase in consumption influenced the corresponding key indicator for the Group. We calculate the CO² emissions in ac(KSB SE & Co. KGaA: 51.1 %) cordance with Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the GHG protocol . The Group’s emissions in the year under review amounted to 101,339 tonnes of CO² (previous year: 97,248 tonnes of KSB follows the internationally recognised ISO 14001 CO² / KSB SE & Co. KGaA: 21,215 tonnes of CO² , previous ­ environmental management system to ensure we deal year: 22,072 tonnes of CO ² ). Although the figures in the ­responsibly with the natural environment. We have so far Regions Europe and Asia / Pacific improved, total carbon diestablished the environmental management system at 37 prooxide emissions increased slightly compared with the previduction and assembly locations (KSB SE & Co. KGaA: ous year. The reason for this rise were significantly higher 3 locations); this means 90 percent of our locations are covemissions in the Region Americas, where the figure increased ered. We conduct regular evaluations of our strategically by around 7,000 tonnes. most important suppliers to determine whether they comply with the requirements of applicable national or international By gradually modernising our systems, we are reducing the environmental management standards. In 2018, we reviewed amount of hazardous substances used in our manufacturing one third of our 618 suppliers via online research. The proprocesses. If we discover any environmental pollution at our portion of these suppliers using recognised environmental locations, we set aside provisions to meet the liabilities for standards as a source of orientation was 61 %. In a supplier the necessary clean-up work. Provisions totalling € 835 thousurvey conducted in 2017, the proportion was 45 % for 547 sand have therefore been recognised for KSB SE & Co. KGaA respondents. in the financial statements. We carry out regular energy audits at our major European In order to minimise the impact of our business activities on locations to reduce energy consumption and CO² emissions. the environment, we ensure that our manufacturing processThe resulting measures include the energy-efficient refurbishes are as environmentally friendly as possible. We go even ment of our buildings and foundries. To help cut electricity further than this by aiming to produce products that only consumption, for example, we use high-efficiency lights and require a small amount of electricity during their service life sensor-controlled lighting. We are also continually expanding and that contribute towards preserving our environment. For our video conference system worldwide in order to minimise example, our circulators, standardised water pumps and electhe need to travel for our employees and to keep the associtric motors already exceed the minimum energy efficiency ated costs and impact on the environment as low as possible. requirements of the European Union defined in the ErP ­Directive . We regularly record our energy consumption and CO² emissions so we can analyse this data. In the year under review, Our energy-efficient products help reduce the amount of enour energy consumption was 283,139 megawatt hours (KSB ergy consumed by our customers. Our specialists adopt an SE & Co. KGaA: 92,703 megawatt hours). 31.8 % (KSB SE integrated approach to optimising our customers’ plants, KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 25 Corporate Social Responsibility analysing the entire hydraulic system and the complete life Group management is responsible for organising complicycle of the plant. This enables us to ensure that all system ance, monitored by the Supervisory Board’s Audit Commitcomponents are perfectly matched. tee. A Group Compliance Officer is responsible for compliance management and reports to Group management on We attach great importance to the quality and safety of our relevant topics every six months. Support is provided by a products in order to prevent accidents and environmental Group Compliance Committee, consisting of top-level manpollution. In production, we comply with recognised standagers from the company. ards such as CE and use established quality management systems. We are therefore able to design processes such that Our Compliance Manual describes structures and processes systematic errors during product manufacturing can be designed to ensure compliant conduct. It also sets out responavoided. Furthermore, we introduced the internal “Made by sibilities and compliance instruments. KSB” certification process. It ensures an equally high standard of quality at 13 locations which exceeds the requirements A core element of our compliance system is the KSB Code of of the international quality management standard. Our inConduct which applies across the entire Group. It describes ternal certification stands for quality, short delivery times, the key legal and business policy principles, providing our professional support services and optimum manufacturing employees with guidance for their actions. The Code also sets processes. forth the corporate values which govern our conduct in our daily work: honesty, responsibility, professionalism, trust and appreciation. On this basis, we have formulated and commuCombating corruption and bribery nicated specific principles and rules of conduct. (compliance) For KSB, lawful conduct is an important and indispensable In order to avoid risks resulting from a loss of reputation and part of corporate responsibility. Our customers and business legal repercussions, KSB issued two binding Corporate Dipartners expect KSB to act with integrity. That is why comrectives, one covering compliance with cartel / anti-trust law pliance with legal regulations and Group-wide directives is and one dealing with the prevention of corruption. Both of part of our core values. The actions of a single individual can these directives help to prevent potential violations. Employresult in a permanent loss of trust in our company and seriees receive appropriate training in recognising potential risks ously compromise our reputation. and receive practical guidance on impeccable conduct. To support employee compliance, we have developed a bindOur goal is to train all relevant employees in cartel / anti-trust ing compliance management system. It ensures that legal law and the prevention of corruption. Using a global matrix requirements and internal KSB rules are adhered to, securing of requirements, we ensure that all personnel with customer the success of our business in the long term. The compliance or supplier contact are familiarised with these topics. The system is designed to ensure that KSB and its employees altraining is repeated every three years, most recently for all ways act in line with applicable laws and directives. personnel in 2017. Any interim needs for training are covered twice a year. In the year under review, we trained 546 employees across the Group on compliance issues. 26 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility OPEN COMMUNICATION: Lunch and breakfast breaks with executives provide a direct line to KSB’s Corporate Management. Employees exchange ideas with Dr Stephan Timmermann, CEO, in an informal atmosphere. KSB not only offers its employees the opportunity to actively participate in the company’s affairs through talks with representatives of top management, it also provides a social intranet which has been available to staff since 2018. This network provides a way for employees to help shape internal communication. Breakfast break with a member of Management SUCCESS CAN BE LEARNT: At KSB, people can develop themselves, advance their knowledge and acquire new skills. By mastering ever more demanding tasks, employees ensure the future viability of the company. KSB supports its workforce with a comprehensive range of training opportunities. Spring 2018 saw the launch of the International Service Academy in which service employees from all over the world deepen their specialist knowledge. Its training programme runs over two years and includes several training placements at KSB’s German locations. The aim is for these qualified specialists to then contribute towards globally promoting the company’s service business. KSB service specialists continue their training KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Age structure Age Total KSB SE & Co. KGaA Europe* Asia / Pacific Americas Middle East / Africa Under 25 9% 12 % 9% 10 % 8% 7% 26 – 39 35 % 30 % 29 % 39 % 38 % 51 % 40 – 54 39 % 35 % 40 % 44 % 35 % 29 % Over 55 17 % 23 % 22 % 8% 19 % 13 % As figures are rounded, the total may deviate from 100. * Including KSB SE & Co. KGaA Training hours Total KSB SE & Co. KGaA Europe* Asia / Pacific Americas Middle East / Africa Hours per employee 15 9 11 13 9 64 * Including KSB SE & Co. KGaA In the event that employees become aware of violations or the individual concerned. Depending on the severity, sancare unsure whether their actions are compliant, they refer the tions range from a disciplinary warning to immediate termimatter to the compliance organisation, and specifically to the nation of employment; law enforcement agencies may also designated Compliance Officer. If necessary, reports will be be involved. treated anonymously. In addition, any circumstances that give rise to legal or anti-trust concerns can be reported directly to an independent ombudsperson, who can process Respecting human rights potential cases without naming informants. If reliable eviKSB supports and respects the protection of international dence is presented, then this is pursued. In 2018, the ombudhuman rights. To underline our commitment, we joined the sperson received two notifications of suspected compliance UN Global Compact . We have also pledged not to indirectviolation. However, a review revealed that neither of the ly tolerate violations of human rights, for example when it cases constituted compliance violations. In 2018, our comcomes to selecting our suppliers. As a company, we comply pliance organisation also received three reports of suspected with the conventions of the International Labour Organisacompliance violations. As a consequence, the responsible tion (ILO). Basic conduct requirements within the workemployees initiated the necessary steps and measures for force are governed by the KSB Code of Conduct. We are clarifying the situation following a precisely defined threeaware that human rights violations are not only morally stage procedure. KSB does not tolerate any violations of unacceptable, they can also damage a company’s reputation compliance by its employees. If investigations reveal suffiand thus result in financial losses. cient evidence of a violation, this will have consequences for 28 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility SHARED EXPERIENCES: KSB encourages employees to take part in sports events. In 2018, 160 women and men participated in the Company Cup on the Hockenheimring. In addition, employees have many opportunities to do sports together and keep fit. Everyone who works at KSB is part of a large team. It is therefore a great idea to experience something together after work as well. In Frankenthal (Pfalz), more than 150 employees attended an after-work party and took the opportunity to socialise outside of the usual work environment. Company run on the Hockenheimring After-work party in Frankenthal KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Workforce by gender Total KSB SE & Co. KGaA Europe* Asia / Pacific Americas Middle East / Africa Male employees 85 % 83 % 83 % 89 % 81 % 87 % Female employees 15 % 17 % 17 % 11 % 19 % 13 % Male managers 89 % 92 % 89 % 89 % 85 % 93 % Female managers 11 % 8% 11 % 11 % 15 % 7% * Including KSB SE & Co. KGaA In 2018, KSB committed itself for the second time to abide Our employees can contact the compliance organisation or by the UK Modern Slavery Act . We are thus committed an ombudsperson regarding human rights issues, following to conducting our entire business – including our supply the same procedure as for suspected compliance violations chain – free from all forms of forced labour, slavery or human (see page 27). trafficking. We do not tolerate any discrimination in our work environEmployee concerns ment on the basis of individual characteristics such as age, Motivated and high-performing employees form the basis for origin, religion, appearance, gender, sexual orientation, dis­ economic success. At KSB , more than 15,000 people are ability or marital status. Furthermore, we respect the freecommitted to serving our customers. In the competition for dom of association and the right to collective bargaining in talent, we want to position ourselves as an attractive emour companies. We also observe government sanctions such ployer. Our aim is to recruit qualified experts such as engias embargoes and issue internal export control directives. neers and service professionals for our company and continue to develop their skills in order to remain successful in In order to identify and avoid risks in the supply chain, we the age of digitalisation. practice active supplier management. For every order we place, the supplier declares that it complies with the rules in The “digital natives” – young people who have grown up in our Code of Conduct, which corresponds with the human the digital age – in particular expect a personal approach rights principles defined in the UN Global Compact . This from potential employers. KSB therefore introduced a reenables us to make sure we avoid purchasing raw materials cruitment concept in 2018 to reach this target group even from areas of conflict where violations of human rights may more effectively. The primary aim is to win creative young have been involved in their production. We do not cooperate professionals for a talent pool. Contact is mainly made with companies that are known to have committed human through social media and job fairs. Interested applicants aprights violations. ply via a web site and receive feedback from KSB within one day. The goal is to have a sufficient number of young talents to fill positions even faster in the future. 30 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Number of training hours per employee: learning centre also enables the direct exchange of knowledge and experience among users and thus supports mutual 15 learning. In order to meet demand for specialist staff, we are continually engaged in training young people. Our German locations participate in the country’s dual vocational education system. In the year under review, we trained a total of 237 young (KSB SE & Co. KGaA: 9) talents to take on a role in our company. 2018 saw us invest around EUR 7.3 million in vocational training. Those who take up vocational training or dual work / degree We want to develop and expand the skills and knowledge of programmes with KSB experience practical learning. Alongour employees. We are fostering our best and brightest emside specialist skills, we set great store by the sense of responployees to prepare them for high-level specialist and leadersibility exercised by our trainee staff. They are, for example, ship positions. Structured succession planning is also part of also involved in social and ecological projects around their our approach. locations. A three-stage scheme enables us to expand our employees’ At KSB, diverse personalities and cultures work together. We skill sets. It differentiates between company-wide, departdraw our strength from the diversity of these individuals and mental and individual professional development measures. are committed to being an equal opportunities employer. Annual performance evaluation interviews between managers and staff determine what is required. We offer training Diversity and equal opportunities form the basis upon which measures covering engineering, business, information techthe people at KSB work together. Our binding human nology and communication. In 2018, each member of our ­resources principles harmonise with the conventions of the staff completed an average of 15 hours of professional develILO and apply to all KSB companies. In keeping with these opment activities (KSB SE & Co. KGaA: 9). Regional differprinciples, when recruiting we focus solely on the professionences (see chart on page 27) emerge due to uneven qualifi­ al requirements of the role to be filled and the individual cation levels among new employees, meaning that more performance and potential of the candidate. Clear responsispecialised training is required in some of our companies. bilities have been established to ensure this. Our range of training options seeks to support our staff Management works to ensure that the principles of equal throughout their professional life. The goal is to strengthen opportunities and diversity are realised in company practice. our colleagues’ capacity for self-directed learning, and we Our Human Resources department communicates these intend to initiate a corresponding expansion of the training principles within the Group and adapts them where required. we offer over the next few years. In the year under review, HR also fosters an awareness of this important topic and we set up an Internet-based platform for the entire Group offers corresponding training and advice. via which our employees can access the full range of KSB training courses. In addition to greater use of e-learning, this KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 31 Corporate Social Responsibility A diversity of personalities always means a diversity of ideas We offer our employees many opportunities to help bring and perspectives. That is why we are convinced that a mixed their work and private life into a healthy balance. For exteam of employees will improve performance in our compaample, we support sports and leisure activities that our ny. So we want to see leadership positions filled by diverse employees do together. This increases the motivation of the personalities, all giving their best for KSB. As well as recruitworkforce and at the same time promotes identification ing more non-German candidates for management roles, we with our company. have set ourselves the goal of increasing the number of women in leadership positions. We wish to be seen as a fair comPreventing accidents in everyday working life is an absolute pany and an attractive employer for women with all kinds priority for KSB . Due to the increased level of risk, the of qualifications. Currently, the proportion of female manfocus of our measures is on production areas. Appropriate agers is 11 %. In terms of our workforce as a whole, women training sessions, instruction and further preventive measmake up 15 %. In order to support our female staff, we are ures are implemented regularly. In the year under review, strengthening the measures taken by KSB to reconcile the 35 of our manufacturing and assembly plants (including commitments of family and work. Such measures include all factories of KSB SE & Co. KGaA) were certified accordoffering childcare during the school holidays. We also offer ing to the OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety advice on caring for family members, and both male and management system. This represents 85 % of our locations. female staff can benefit from our flexible working time models. KSB adopts a transparent approach to accident awareness and prevention. In 2018, we therefore installed digital disThe rising average age of the population in many Western plays in the entrance areas and production halls at four of countries also affects companies. We thus monitor the age our German locations. We use these to provide daily upprofiles of our staff in different regions (see chart on page 27) dates on key figures from occupational health and safety so that we can take timely action in ensuring we achieve the with the aim of raising employee awareness and facilitating right balance, for example by recruiting younger trainees in constructive dialogue on the subject of accident prevention. sufficient numbers. It is then possible for us to distribute valuable knowledge within the company across different age Health awareness at work is an important topic also at our groups. administrative departments. We therefore offer training including an annual e-learning course on safety in the ofKSB greatly values the active engagement of its employees in fice. the development of the company and its work processes. 2018 saw us hold regular informal meetings for the first time We invest in the health and well-being of our employees. in which employees and members of Management shared KSB thus takes a holistic approach to actively implementideas and information. In addition, we set up a social intranet ing its company health management system. This sees us in the year under review. Through this social network, emfulfilling not only the legal requirements of the company ployees can actively participate in shaping internal commuhealth service, but also offering voluntary healthcare sernication at KSB. vices such as colon cancer screening, skin cancer screening and flu vaccinations. 32 Management and Issues 2018 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility School class in Mali SOCIAL COMMITMENT: KSB is committed to social issues and attaches particular importance to education for children and young adults and to supporting international projects that provide drinking water. Our company also helps with donations in the event of a disaster. As part of its traditional Christmas donation campaign, KSB supported four projects in Germany and three in Africa and Asia with € 40,000. This benefited a school in the Gao region of Mali where € 10,000 were invested in improving the water supply and sanitary facilities. In 2018, KSB supported several aid projects in Africa to supply people with clean drinking water. In Gambia, three well pumps ensure that the inhabitants of a village have access to the most important nutrient. Drinking water wells in Gambia KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Management and Issues 2018 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Society We are committed to social issues and strive to foster sustainable development and well-functioning cooperation within society. With this goal in mind, and in line with our donation directive, we support organisations and projects dedicated to the education, social support and protection of children and young people. We are also committed to supporting the disadvantaged. In the event of disasters we provide assistance for both people and organisations. In the year under review, we actively participated in or provided financial support of at least € 5,000 each to a total of 104 social projects. In doing so, we are supporting the 17 global goals defined by the United Nations for sustainable development. For example, our commitment helps to combat poverty, enables people to lead healthy lives, ensures education, provides clean water and sanitation, and eliminates inequalities. Education for young people is a core element of our commitment to social issues. It is important for us that young people develop their skills early enough to then pursue a career that offers the right fit for their talents and capabilities. For this reason we joined other companies to found the initiative Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutschland e.V. [Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany]. The provision of financial support for aid projects has a long tradition at KSB. This includes ongoing support for social developments in the areas around our locations. We donate regularly to projects seeking to supply people with clean drinking water, for which we also provide non-cash support such as pumps. More information on our social commitment is available at www.ksb.com/csr. 34 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 2 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 35 Global Reach Global Reach Group Management Report 36 Overview 38 Industry in South East Asia 44 Water for North Africa 50 Electricity for India 56 Copper from Chile 62 Living in Dubai 68 Oil and Gas Worldwide Consolidated Financial Statements General Information 36 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Overview Global Reach – Local Commitment Our global network of sales companies, manufacturing sites and service centres ensures we are always close to our ­customers, helping them to operate their production facilities reliably and cost-­ efficiently. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 37 Overview 38 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Industry in South East Asia อุตสาหกรรม ในเอเชย ี ตะวันออกเฉียงใต้ [ Industry in South East Asia ] KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 39 Industry in South East Asia 40 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Industry in South East Asia KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 41 Industry in South East Asia Clothing, electronics, cars, food – over half of all export goods from Indonesia are industrially produced. Vietnam has well over 200 flourishing industrial parks and Thailand is currently investing in automation to improve its competitive standing. 42 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Industry in South East Asia Piyachat Kiatkanarat, KSB SupremeServ Service Department Manager at KSB Pumps Co., Ltd. in Thailand, manages and coordinates local service assignments. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 43 Industry in South East Asia “It’s great to be able to actively shape growth and development in our region. We are there to provide our expertise whenever our customers need us.” SOUTH EAST ASIA KSB has sales and service companies in Vietnam, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines. Over the last few years, KSB has won a number of major projects in the region for power plants, water and waste water transport, petrochemical applications and mining. 44 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Water for North Africa [ Water for North Africa ] KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 45 Water for North Africa 46 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Water for North Africa KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 47 Water for North Africa Shortages of water – in terms of both quantity and quality – remain one of the most important issues in North Africa. A growing network of pipelines transports this vital nutrient from seawater desalination plants and underground water reserves across the desert to improve the supply of running water – for drinking water, sanitary facilities and cultivating the land. 48 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Water for North Africa Workshop Manager Mohamed Benzeghioua installing an overhauled pump in an Algerian waterworks system. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 49 Water for North Africa “Clean drinking water is ­essential for health and quality of life. It is a fan­ tastic feeling to know that I am supporting people in my region through my work and that I can pass on my knowledge and e ­ xperience to young colleagues.” NORTH AFRIC A KSB operates local sales branches and service centres in countries such as Morocco, Egypt and Algeria. As a leading specialist for water and waste water applications, KSB is involved in numerous water extraction, treatment and transport projects. 50 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Electricity for India [ Electricity for India ] KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 51 Electricity for India 52 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Electricity for India Many millions of people do not have reliable access to electricity. Power cuts are a regular occurrence and hinder the growing economy. At the same time, electricity utility companies are unable to meet the demand for electricity and the energy infrastructure is in urgent need of overhauling and expansion. The government is responding to this by building efficient new power plants – primarily with the use of Indian products. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 53 Electricity for India 54 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Electricity for India Uday Joshi is the Head of Product Management for power plant pumps. He trains young talents for service activities in the KSB SupremeServ Academy. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 55 Electricity for India “Our work helps towards meeting the growing ­demand for energy in India, providing the basis for ­economic success and a more stable future.” INDIA KSB has been operating in India since 1960 and is represented by three local companies, six production locations and numerous service centres. A new plant was established in Shirwal specialising in the production of boiler feed pumps. It supplies pumps for the numerous power plants which are being built in India and in neighbouring countries. KSB also maintains a close-knit sales and service network nationwide. 56 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Copper from Chile COBRE [ Copper from Chile ] DE CHILE KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 57 Copper from Chile 58 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Copper from Chile KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 59 Copper from Chile Chile’s main export goods are raw materials. Progressive digitalisation and the resulting demand for electronic devices such as smartphones and tablets are having a positive impact on Chile’s economy. The country is naturally rich in ­copper, molybdenum and antimony. Giant mines extract these precious resources and transport them above ground. 60 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Copper from Chile Jenny Jara, a KSB SupremeServ employee in ­Santiago, is the contact for the Los Bronces ­copper mine and ensures that the spare parts required for maintenance and repairs are always available on time. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 61 Copper from Chile “In order to mine copper ore, our slurry pumps have to transport large quantities of sand and stone, which leads to a high level of wear. Our spare parts centres in Santiago and Antofagasta ensure that our customers’ machines are always ready for operation.” SOUTH AMERIC A In Argentina and Brazil, KSB has been an established name as a domestic pump ­manufacturer for over 60 years. Our pumps and valves are in operation in countless systems in industry, water management and energy applications. In Chile, in ­contrast, mining is the dominant industry, as reflected by the sales figures for slurry pumps. In Colombia and Peru, KSB subsidiaries supply customers with the locally needed products and services. 62 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Living in Dubai ‫احلياة‬ ‫في دبي‬ [ Living in Dubai] KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 63 Living in Dubai 64 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Living in Dubai Temperatures of 40 degrees Celsius or more are not unusual in Dubai. The quality of life in the desert state is therefore greatly dependent on sufficient air conditioning for homes and work spaces. Nearly all apartments, offices, supermarkets, restaurants and shopping malls are supplied with water, which is pumped from district cooling plants and distributed to buildings. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 65 Living in Dubai 66 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Living in Dubai When it comes to pumps for district cooling plants, Hari Prasad is the first port of call for ­consultants and construction companies. As the project manager for the KSB office in Abu Dhabi, he is always dealing with issues relating to the transport of ice-cold liquids. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 67 Living in Dubai “Air conditioning for buildings is necessary here on a far greater scale than almost anywhere else in the world! Cooling giant buildings is a technical challenge that we face on a daily basis.” MIDDLE EAST Headquartered in Dubai, KSB Middle East is represented with sales and service ­companies in the United Arab Emirates, Oman and Qatar, and with its own ­manufacturing company in Saudi Arabia. Scores of large KSB pumps ensure the ­performance of district cooling plants in the Gulf region. In addition to supplying pumps and valves, KSB supports the Gulf States with tailored service solutions through its own company. 68 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Oil and Gas Worldwide OIL AND GAS WORLDWIDE KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 69 Oil and Gas Worldwide 70 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Oil and Gas Worldwide KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 71 Oil and Gas Worldwide The demand for oil and derived base materials and fuels is once again on the rise. Despite the strong increase in natural gas processing, petrochemical products remain the most important base materials for industrialised countries. Many vital technologies are based on plastics and lubricants. The petrochemical industry is dominated by a high awareness of costs, quality and safety. It is innovative and responsive, making it highly competitive. 72 Global Reach KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Oil and Gas Worldwide Kai Hannemann, employee of KSB SE & Co. KGaA in Frankenthal (Pfalz), is responsible for quotation ­management in the oil and gas business. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Global Reach 73 Oil and Gas Worldwide “As one of the leading pump manufacturers, we are committed to serving the technically demanding oil and gas market. We supply our customers with API products which are globally manufactured to the highest quality standards.” WORLDWIDE The KSB SupremeServ mobile service units conduct maintenance inspections of the entire pump and valve populations of refineries. KSB is an approved supplier for major oil companies. 74 Global Management Group Reach Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Überblick 3 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 75 Group Management Group Management Report Report 76 Basic Principles of the Group 76 Group Business Model 77 Control System 78 Research and Development 79 Economic Review Consolidated Financial Statements 79 Macroeconomic Environment and Sector View 81 Business Development and Results of Operations 84 Financial Position and Net Assets 88 Summary of the Performance in the Financial Year 89 Dependent Company Report 90 Report on Expected Developments 93 Opportunities and Risks Report 104 Acquisition-related Disclosures 106 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 315d HGB in Conjunction with Section 289f HGB) 107 Statement on the Non-financial Report (Sections 315b, 315c in Conjunction with Sections 289b to 289e HGB) 108 Remuneration Report General Information 76 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Basic Principles of the Group Basic Principles of the Group Group Business Model ­Management SE , which has four Managing Directors and a five-member Administrative Board. The KSB Group’s mission is to supply customers around the world with top-quality pumps and valves as well as related Managers and employees implement the strategy and instrucsystems. It also provides a wide range of support services to tions of the Managing Directors within an organisation that is users of these products. structured according to responsibilities for product groups, corporate functions and regions. KSB SE & Co. KGaA (until 17 January 2018: KSB Aktiengesellschaft), Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany, as the parent comAll organisational units in the KSB Group act with the aim of pany, directly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies ensuring sustainable, profitable growth to secure both KSB ’s belonging to the Group. Besides it, 9 domestic and 74 foreign financial independence and its mediumand long-term future. companies are fully consolidated; 6 other companies are KSB is monitored by a Supervisory Board consisting of twelve accounted for under the equity method. KSB is currently repmembers. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders apresented in over 40 countries with its own subsidiaries. points six members of the Supervisory Board, with the remaining six being delegated by the employees under the terms of the As well as KSB SE & Co. KGaA itself, the companies in the KSB Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Co-determination Act]. Group with the highest sales revenue are The KSB Group organises its business activities in three segKSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris), France ments based on product groups: Pumps, Valves and Service. The KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Pumps segment covers singleand multistage pumps, and assoGIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA ciated control and drive systems. Applications are industry KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India (manufacturing, chemical / petrochemical, transport), energy KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany supply, water transport and waste water treatment, construcKSB BRASIL LTDA., Várzea Paulista (Brazil) tion / building services and the hydraulic transport of solids in KSB Italia S.p.A., Milan, Italy mining. The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators The basic business model has not changed during the year unand control systems. The applications for these products are der review. External economic and political changes, however, essentially identical to those for pumps. The Service segment, have had a partial effect on business. These are – where relevant for which KSB launched its own brand, KSB SupremeServ, in and material to KSB – described in the following sections. May 2018, covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related ORGANISATION, MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL systems and valves for all these applications, as well as modular KSB AG changed its legal form to that of an SE & Co. KGaA service concepts and system analyses for complete systems. by entry in the Handelsregister [German Commercial Register] on 17 January 2018. The partnership limited by shares MARKETS AND LOCATIONS [Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA] is a common legal Within the KSB Group, centrifugal pumps account for around form in Germany for companies with a familyand foundatwo thirds of sales revenue. These pumps, as well as valves, are tion-dominated ownership structure. The Annual General sold to engineering contractors, OEMs and end users or, in Meeting of KSB AG adopted a resolution on 10 May 2017 on some cases, distributed via dealers. The same applies to control the announced change in the legal form of the company. The and monitoring systems, and to package units with pumps and general partner is KSB Management SE, a European public limvalves. ited company. The shares in this company are wholly owned (100 %) by Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH, a subsidiary The largest and best developed sales market for these products of the non-profit KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation] and the is Europe, where KSB operates its main manufacturing facilities Kühborth-Stiftung GmbH [Kühborth Foundation]. KSB SE & in Germany and France. The main plant of the present KSB SE Co. KGaA and thus the KSB Group are managed via KSB & Co. KGaA in Frankenthal is its largest in Europe, ahead of KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 77 Basic Principles of the Group Bodies / Structure Limited partners General partner KSB shareholders KSB Management SE manages Annual General Meeting KSB SE & Co. KGaA Supervisory Board monitors The former KSB AG is now managed in the legal form of a partnership limited by shares [ Kommanditgesellschaft auf Aktien – KGaA ]. Management is the responsibility of KSB Management SE, the individually liable general partner. The responsibilities of the bodies are governed by law and the Articles of Associations. This is the basis for efficient corporate governance, which contributes to sustainable corporate growth. the production sites in Pegnitz (Bavaria) and Halle (Saxonythrough its good and long-term relationships with customers Anhalt) in Germany, and La Roche-Chalais in France. and suppliers. Highly trained and motivated employees as well as the high quality of products have also helped cement this The second-largest market for KSB products is currently the reputation. Region Asia / Pacific, followed by the Region Americas and the Region Middle East / Africa. Outside Europe, KSB’s biggest production sites are in Brazil, China, India and the USA. Control System KSB manufactures products and components in a total of Based upon a matrix organisation, KSB determines its key 17 countries; they are sold through the Group’s own companies ­financial performance indicators as follows: or agencies in more than 100 countries. With their products, the Group companies serve customers in industry including the Management decisions are made primarily on the basis of key chemical and petrochemical industries, customers in the energy indicators determined for the Pumps, Valves and Service segand construction / building services sectors, transport equipments: order intake, sales revenue and EBIT. EBIT is defined as ment manufacturers and operators (e.g. ships, rail vehicles), earnings before financial income / expense and income tax. The water and waste water utilities, and mining companies. Once definition of this earnings indicator changed in the 2018 finanagain in 2018, the top-selling markets for KSB products were cial year. Until the 2017 year-end, EBIT was defined as the industry and the energy supply sectors. earnings before interest and income tax. In the comments in these consolidated financial statements, the new definition of In order to be able to offer KSB products at favourable prices, the key indicator is used; prior-year figures were restated acthe Group’s purchasing requirements are combined and cordingly. affordable suppliers sourced around the world who meet the relevant quality standards. The focus is currently upon Asian For more information on these key indicators see the Notes to companies. The KSB Group is able to maintain its market the Consolidated Financial Statements, Section VIII. Segment position as one of the leading pump and valve manufacturers Reporting. 78 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Basic Principles of the Group For the control of the entire Group, the key indicators of order digital transformation in the production and marketing of intake, sales revenue, earnings before income tax (EBT), pre-tax pumps, valves and hydraulic systems. return on sales as well as the net financial position are used, and from the 2018 financial year onwards also the EBIT. The preBeyond these innovation approaches, the integration of hydraulic tax return on sales describes the ratio between earnings before and electronic systems is a focus of activities. It opens access to income tax (EBT) and sales revenue; the net financial position new business models. As many product components come into is the balance of interest-bearing financial liabilities and intercontact with fluids that are corrosive or abrasive, materials est-bearing financial assets (current and non-current financial research is another key area of the developers’ work. instruments, interest-bearing loans to companies accounted for using the equity method as well as companies that were not 49.2 consolidated due to there being no material impact, cash and cash equivalents, receivables from deposits). Starting in the 2019 financial year, the key indicators of earnings before income tax (EBT), pre-tax return on sales as well as the net financial position will no longer be used. When specifying and evaluating these key indicators, KSB is guided on the one hand by developments in the market, and on the other by the performance of Research and development its key competitors. expenses in € millions No non-financial performance indicators are consulted for controlling the Group and for making decisions regarding manageIn these activities, the KSB Group is primarily drawing on its ment issues. strong research and development expertise in Europe and India. In addition, it cooperates with external institutes and research facilities. Overall, the KSB Group spent around € 49 million on Research and Development research and development in the year under review. This equates to about 2 % of our sales revenue. A large portion of the develInnovations are a fundamental pillar of KSB’s activities and are opment work was on customer projects. part of the core elements of its strategy. They are defined as solutions that create added value for customers and translate into new products, services or business models. Finding creative solutions is the most successful where developers have a high degree of freedom in choosing the approaches or methods. With this objective in mind, KSB has set up the off-site Business Innovation Lab to abandon the traditional paths of research and development. In this think tank, digital natives work together with experienced specialists to realise the KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 79 Economic Review Economic Review Macroeconomic Environment and The five economically most significant countries in South East Sector View Asia – Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam – also showed a good performance with a growth rate totalling The global business cycle lost momentum in the course of 2018. 5.2 %. Here, too, KSB is represented with its own companies. The International Monetary Fund (IMF), whose forecast provided the basis for the planning, predicted growth of 3.9 % at The Region South America, which includes the important the start of the year. At + 3.7 %, the actual performance fell markets for KSB in Argentina, Brazil and Chile, remained short of this forecast. Causes included trade policy restrictions considerably weaker with a growth of + 1.1 %. The economic of the traffic of goods and above all the increasing difficulties and currency crisis in Argentina severely restricted demand; the experienced by a number of emerging markets and developing recovery on the market in Brazil was also slow. countries. They had to contend with an increase in the price of loans and energy together with political tensions, primarily in The economic performance of the countries in the Region Midthe Middle East, which put a brake on public-sector and private dle East / Africa was primarily marked by the international teninvestments. sions in the context of the Syrian war, the US embargo against Iran and the political crises in Qatar, Yemen and Saudi Arabia. Europe was once again of primary importance for the KSB In South Africa, where KSB operates a factory in Johannesbusiness in 2018. However, compared with the IMF forecast burg, the upcoming elections caused unrest and an investment the growth of the economy on the home market weakened more climate shaped by uncertainty. This set narrow limits to the sharply than it did on a global scale. Nevertheless, at + 1.8 % it growth of companies operating in the country. But KSB South reached a satisfactory level. The export business in Germany Africa additionally served further countries in sub-Saharan weakened. Taken together with lower industrial production, Africa, some of which recorded a stronger business perforthis meant that the economy, at + 1.5 %, fell considerably short mance. of forecasts. France, Italy and the United Kingdom also fell short of expectations, albeit for different reasons. By contrast, Russia does not yet see any signs of an overall economic imthe economy in Spain recorded above-average growth, which provement due to the continuing sanctions and the lack of forimproved the conditions for local selling, production and supeign investments. In view of the preferential use of domestic port services. sources, it was important for foreign companies to expand their production base in the country. KSB achieved this by establishAmong the traditional industrialised nations the USA reported ing a new production and service site. stronger growth than expected at + 2.9 % due to the policy of tax cuts and the favourable underlying financial conditions. The POSITIVE DEMAND TREND OVERALL KSB Group produces its slurry pumps in the country and conThe more upbeat forecasts on the economy at the start of the tinued to expand its service and spare parts business in 2018. year initially prompted companies to tackle new industry and infrastructure projects, some of which had been postponed for Of the emerging markets in Asia, China and India performed some time. This benefited the relevant suppliers in various inparticularly well with growth rates of 6.6 % and 7.3 %, respecdustries, including KSB. But the risks to international trade that tively, in 2018. But whereas the Chinese economy failed to became more apparent in the course of the year put an increasreach the previous year’s growth, also on account of the trade ing damper on the willingness to invest, particularly in regions dispute with the USA, economic expansion in India exceeded affected by trade restrictions including sanctions or experiencthat seen in 2017. As well as higher private consumer spending, ing political tensions. increased investment activities, which directly benefited mechanical engineering companies such as KSB, which have their Demand in industry, the most important market for KSB, neverown production base, contributed to this development. theless showed a positive trend overall. This was particularly pronounced in the chemical and petrochemical industries. Alongside maintenance investments, an increase in new refinery projects in the oil processing industry was observed. 80 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Economic Review World market of centrifugal pumps and valves struction of commercial buildings where KSB’s building services products are primarily used. Middle East /Africa 15.4% The new shipbuilding market including LNG carriers recorded Asia / Pacific 39.0% no more than a minor increase, according to Macquarie ReEurope 22.2% search. The biggest share is accounted for by container ships, bulk carriers and tankers, followed by LNG and LPG carriers by a considerable margin. Americas 23.4% ENGINEERING STILL ON THE UPSWING According to the German Engineering Federation (VDMA ), Source: KSB estimate (February 2019), European Industrial Forecasting global sales in the mechanical engineering sector rose by 3 % in real terms for the second time in a row. Engineering posted above-average growth in Switzerland, Austria, the Netherlands, Germany, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Sales growth in The water and waste water sector, which is prioritised in stra2018 was between 4 % and 7 %, with Switzerland, Sweden and tegic terms, similar to the industrial sector, saw marked regional the Netherlands reporting a particularly good sales perfordifferences in demand. A number of emerging economies and mance of 7 %. In the Netherlands, business with semiconductor the growth market of China continued the expansion of their production equipment was extremely good, and in Sweden the infrastructures. North America, too, recorded an increase in public sector increasingly invested in smart city projects. demand for products and services for safe drinking water supply and reliable waste water disposal. By contrast, the countries In Germany the previous year’s level was exceeded by just unin the Middle East and North Africa, in particular, planned der 5 %, due to a good order situation. substantially fewer new plants for these purposes. Here, the uncertain political situation put a brake on investment. In China, companies are struggling with declining export orders on account of the trade conflict with the USA, which led to sales Energy supply proved to be a persistently difficult market for growth of only 2 % in 2018. By contrast, growth in India was all suppliers and service providers. The decline in demand for unexpectedly strong at around 10 %. Mechanical engineering equipment and support services for coal-fired power plants demand in Latin America rose significantly, reflected in an incontinued. Alternative business options, such as the supply of crease in sales revenue of 5 % in real terms. combined cycle power plants, were unable to offset these structural losses. In the liquid pumps sector, the VDMA recorded real sales revenue growth of 5 % among German pump manufacturers. In mining, the increase in commodity prices entailed brisk inIndustrial valves also reported a positive sales revenue trend of vestment activity in some countries. This applied, for example, 6 % whereas the order intake declined by 1 %. to copper mines in South America and to the mining of gold and lithium in Asia and Australia. In addition to replacement investments that had been postponed until then, the mine operators in some countries decided to expand their systems, which strengthened demand for equipment goods. The construction industry recorded a good performance on the whole. In Western Europe this continued to apply to both residential and commercial construction. Here, the fact that interest rates remain very low in some countries had a beneficial effect. Investment activity also remained high in several Asian countries, such as China and India. One focus was on the conKSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 81 Economic Review Segment reporting Order intake Sales revenue EBIT 2017 € thousands 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 (adjusted) Pumps segment 1,506,248 1,473,628 1,469,443 1,444,392 90,563 79,284 Valves segment 355,618 343,505 340,771 338,849 – 37,373 51 Service segment 441,670 448,179 435,734 421,717 21,512 37,020 Total 2,303,536 2,265,312 2,245,948 2,204,958 74,702 116,355 Finance income / expense – 9,141 – 12,175 Earnings before income tax ( EBT ) 65,561 104,180 Business Development and In regional terms, the companies in the Region Asia / Pacific Results of Operations made a significant contribution to growth at € + 35.8 million (+ 7.5 %). The development in India was outstanding at € 32.1 The business position continued to improve owing to increased million (+ 21.9 %). This growth is supported by an Indian large investment activity of customers in key sales markets. This appower plant in the energy supply market with € + 22.9 million plied, in particular, to the industry and transport markets and in the Pumps segment. The companies in Europe also reported to the construction / building services sector. slight increases (+ 1.3 %). However, the order intake of KSB SE & Co. KGaA declined by € – 15.1 million. Compared with the KSB made the most of market opportunities via the global KSB previous year, a lower project volume in the project-driven sales organisation, supported by its global manufacturing netenergy market, in particular, had a significant impact. The comwork, its service organisation and national dealership networks. panies in the Americas closed the financial year with a stable result compared with the previous period, with full growth Translation-related exchange rate effects had a significantly offset by a negative currency translation effect of € – 45.7 milnegative impact in the 2018 financial year. lion. The same applies to the companies in the Region Middle East / Africa, whose modest growth was € – 14.0 million below ORDER INTAKE the previous year’s figure due to currency translation effects. The volume of incoming orders booked was increased by The restricted Iran business also had a pronounced negative € 38.2 million (+ 1.7 %) to € 2,303.5 million in the financial effect on the Region’s growth. year. This growth was weighed down by an exchange rate effect of € – 96.8 million over the previous year. Adjusted for currenPumps cy translation effects, growth comes to 6 %. In the Pumps segment, sales revenue was € 1,506.2 million, up by € 32.6 million (+ 2.2 %). A key driver was double-digit Significant increases were recorded, in particular, with customgrowth of € + 47.1 million (+ 11.6 %) in the general industry ers in the following markets: manufacturing at € + 58.3 million market, primarily in the European companies. Taken together – mainly in the Pumps segment – and transport at € + 19.9 with the growth in building services of € + 8.9 million (+ 5.5 %) million. € 14.7 million of the performance in the transport marand in transport of € 3.5 million (+ 18.5 %), the substantial ket segment alone was accounted for by the Valves segment. decline of € – 14.2 million in the energy supply market was Moreover, the order intake grew by € + 9.9 million in the conmore than offset in the European companies, in particular. The struction / building services market and by € + 9.6 million in the mining market was stable at the previous year’s level while chemicals / petrochemicals sector. This equates to growth customer orders in the water / waste water and chemicals marof 4 %. kets were more muted. 82 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Economic Review Valves Sales revenue by segment In the Valves segment, order intake was € 355.6 million, up by € 12.1 million (+ 3.5 %). This development was primarily atService 19 % tributable to the resurgence of the transport market, which posted growth of € 14.7 million. A significant increase was also Pumps 66% recorded by the mining market at € + 3.6 million (+ 42.4 %) and Valves 15% the chemicals / petrochemicals market at € + 3.0 million (+ 7.7 %). In the Valves segment, too, the lower demand from the energy sector had an effect of € – 16.4 million. This was due to the substantial decline in activity in the area of major projects. Service At € 441.7 million (– 1.5 %), the order intake in the Service segment was slightly below the previous year. Here, too, a major decline in the energy supply market of € – 21.9 million Pumps (– 16.2 %) was observed, which is making itself felt primarily Sales revenue in the Pumps segment increased by € 25.1 million in the European companies. Strong growth was reported in the (+ 1.7 %) to € 1,469.4 million. Substantial growth compared general industry market at € + 10.9 million (+ 10.2 %) and the with the previous year was recorded by the Region Americas chemicals / petrochemicals market at € + 8.3 million (+ 12.4 %). with € + 18.9 million and the Region Asia / Pacific with € + 14.8 million. Growth in the Region Americas was supported primarSALES REVENUE ily by the US company GIW with its main business in the minConsolidated sales revenue grew by € + 40.9 million (+ 1.9 %) ing market. Growth in Asia / Pacific was spread across several to € 2,245.9 million. Growth was also significantly burdened units. Sales revenue of the European companies fell short of the by currency translation effects of € – 92.6 million. Excluding previous year by € – 10.3 million. the effects from exchange rates, the increase would have amounted to € 133.5 million (+ 6.1 %). Valves In the Valves segment, order intake growth could not yet be Europe remains the region with the strongest sales revenue at translated into sales revenue of the same volume. Growth of 56 %. The European companies’ sales revenue was down 0.6 % € 2.0 million (+ 0.6 %) was posted here. The financial year from the previous year. The decline of € – 18.8 million to closed with sales revenue of € 340.8 million. Whereas the com€ 762.0 million in the largest unit, KSB SE & Co. KGaA, which panies in the Regions Asia / Pacific and Americas recorded an serves the European market and the market outside Europe, increase of € + 3.1 million and € + 2.0 million, respectively, dewas for the most part offset by growth in other parts of Europe, spite significant currency translation effects, the companies in in particular Europe West. The companies in Asia / Pacific reEurope and in the Middle East / Africa fell short of the previous corded the strongest growth with an increase of € + 29.7 million year’s figures by € – 2.1 million and € – 1.0 million, respective(+ 6.6 %) followed by the legal units in the Americas with a gain ly. of € 18.9 million (+ 5.8 %). The companies in the Region Middle East / Africa fell slightly short of the prior-year level by Service € – 0.5 million, essentially due to the negative currency transThe Service segment showed the largest relative growth lation effects. (+ 3.3 %) and closed the year with an increase of € 14.0 million to € 435.7 million. The Regions Asia / Pacific and Europe posted growth in the segment over the previous year. The largest absolute increase was generated by the companies in Asia / Pacific with € + 11.8 million. By contrast, the Regions Middle East / Africa and Americas posted an overall decline of € – 3.0 million. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 83 Economic Review EARNINGS BEFORE FINANCE INCOME / EXPENSE KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea, amounting to € 20.6 million. AND INCOME TAX (EBIT) The impairment is attributable to the generally limited business The KSB Group achieved earnings before finance income / experformance of the company owing to the economic developpense and income tax (EBIT) of € 74.7 million (previous year: ment of the long-cycle shipbuilding industry. Impairment loss€ 116.4 million). The Pumps segment contributed € 90.6 miles on property, plant and equipment of the French production lion to this figure, the Valves segment € – 37.4 million and the company KSB S.A.S. totalling € 10.6 million also weighed on Service segment € 21.5 million. earnings. The impairments relate to two valve ranges from which no long-term cash flows are expected any longer. Income The previous year’s forecasts referred to earnings before interfrom the lump-sum option of € 5.9 million had the opposite est and income tax; consequently, the comparative figures in the effect. A substantial increase had been forecast for EBIT of the year under review are also presented below according to the Service segment, instead of which it recorded a decline of previous year’s definition. Earnings before interest and income 25.7 % to € 27.7 million. A key reason for this was the goodwill tax total € 76.4 million (previous year: € 117.2 million). The impairments of two French cash-generating units amounting to development of earnings before interest and income tax in the € 7.6 million due to their dependence on a single major customPumps segment had a positive effect at € 85.8 million (previous er. Income of € 8.1 million resulting from the introduction of year: € 79.9 million). This means that the forecast made in the the lump-sum option is included. previous year’s report (considerable increase) was accurate as an increase of 7.4 % was recorded. As reported in the half-year TOTAL OUTPUT OF OPERATIONS financial report, EBIT was weighed down by expenses in the The above increase in sales revenue is also reflected in a higher amount of € 25 million from an additional provision for a total output of operations, totalling € 2,275.8 million comlegacy project in the United Kingdom. The pension plans of pared with € 2,210.5 million in the previous year. Work in proGerman companies concluded before 2009 solely provided for gress and inventories of finished goods increased by € 22.6 the payment of accumulated amounts in the form of a monthly million. Other work performed and capitalised amounts to pension for life upon retirement. A lump-sum option was intro€ 7.3 million and is therefore 30.4 % up on the previous year. duced for these plans in December 2018. Under this, every employee is entitled to apply at any time during the ongoing emINCOME AND EXPENSES ployment relationship for payment in capital, either as a single Other income declined from € 69.2 million to € 33.1 million, payment or in ten annual instalments. Recognition of the exeressentially due to high insurance compensations included in the cising of this lump-sum option has resulted in one-off income previous year and lower income from the disposal of assets. of € 46.4 million in total based on past service cost, resulting in a reduction of provisions for pensions and similar obligaThe cost of materials increased more sharply than the total tions. The Pumps segment accounts for income from the lumpoutput of operations, resulting in an increase in the cost of sum option of € 32.4 million. Contrary to the forecast of a materials as a percentage of total output of operations from stable performance, earnings before interest and income tax in 40.2 % in the previous year to 41.1 % in the year under review. the Valves segment fell from € 0.1 million in the previous year Overall, the cost of materials increased to € 934.5 million comto € – 37.1 million in the year under review. Among other pared with € 887.8 million in the previous year. Among other factors, this is due to the impairment on the goodwill of factors, this is due to outsourcing. Staff costs fell by 3.9 % to € 765.5 million. Staff costs as a 2.2 percentage of total output of operations dropped by 2 percentage points. The key factor was € 46.4 million in income from the lump-sum option in the pension plans of the German companies. Compared with 2017, the number of employees rose by 258, taking the total figure at the end of the year under review to 15,713. The sharpest increase was posted by the North Consolidated sales revenue in € billions American companies with 159 people, due among other things 84 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Economic Review to the acquisition of the assets and liabilities of the Dubric fects resulting from deferred taxes on loss carryforwards, which Group. The biggest declines were recorded at the French and cannot be capitalised, and impairment losses on the goodwill South American sites. The KSB Group employed on average 90 of KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea, and the French cash-genermore people than in the previous year. Based on the 3.0 % inating units, the adjusted income tax rate is 31.8 %. Earnings crease in total output of operations and simultaneous rise in after income tax, which totalled € 23.9 million (previous year: the number of employees, the average output per employee € 52.1 million) fell by 54.1 % and thus more sharply than earnimproved from € 142 thousand in the previous financial year ings before income tax (EBT) (– 37.0 %). to € 146 thousand. At € 12.6 million, earnings attributable to non-controlling inThe ratio of other expenses to total output of operations rose terests declined by € 2.3 million compared with the previous from 17.8 % to 18.3 %. In absolute terms, this represents a year. Relative to earnings after income tax, there was therefore change from € 392.4 million to € 416.9 million. The increase a change from 28.6 % to 52.7 %. was attributable to higher expenses for warranties and contractual penalties (€ + 20.4 million) due to the provision for a legEarnings attributable to shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA acy project in the United Kingdom mentioned earlier, as well as (€ 11.3 million) were € 25.9 million lower than in the previous higher expenses for repairs, maintenance and third-party seryear (€ 37.2 million). vices (€ + 22.0 million). By contrast, other staff costs fell by € 12.5 million. Earnings per ordinary share were € 6.26, compared with € 21.10 in the previous year, and € 6.64 per preference share, Finance income / expense improved by € 3.0 million, reflecting compared with € 21.36 in 2017. higher income from equity investments accounted for using the equity method and lower financial expense, particularly interest expense. Financial Position and Net Assets EARNINGS FINANCIAL POSITION The KSB Group generated earnings before income tax (EBT) of The financial position of the KSB Group remains as solid as € 65.6 million, compared with € 104.2 million in 2017. This ever on account of one-time special effects, as evidenced by a means that the previous year’s forecast of a substantial increase consistently high equity ratio of 38.2 % (previous year: 39.3 %). in earnings did not materialise on account of the one-time special effects described above. Correspondingly, the return on Liquidity sales before tax decreased from 4.7 % in the previous year to KSB generated cash flows from operating activities of € 61.4 2.9 %, also falling short of expectations outlined in the previous million, a year-on-year decrease of € 59.3 million. This was year. The income tax rate rose substantially and is now 63.5 % primarily attributable to the high commitment of funds in inafter 50.0 % in the previous year. This rise was attributable to ventories. This contrasted with higher liabilities. considerably higher deferred tax expenses. Adjusted for the efThe outflows from investing activities increased by € 82.3 million compared with 2017. While the return of term deposits and commercial papers increased cash flows considerably in the 65.6 previous year, the addition of fixed-term deposits and payments for the acquisition of consolidated companies led to a decline in cash flow in the year under review. Accordingly, cash flows from investing activities changed from € – 8.2 million in the previous year to € – 90.5 million in the year under review. Consolidated earnings (EBT) in € millions KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 85 Economic Review 255 Negative cash flows from financing activities fell strongly, totalling € – 9.4 million compared with € – 106.0 million in the previous year. This is due to lower payments for financial liabilities because no partial redemption of the loan against borrower’s note took place in the year under review, in contrast to the previous year. Net financial position in € millions Cash and cash equivalents from all cash flows fell sharply from € 289.5 million to € 255.5 million. Exchange rate effects amounting to € + 4.6 million (previous year: € – 6.8 million) contributed significantly to this. India and China. The policies for measuring depreciation and amortisation were maintained in the year under review. The KSB Group assumes that, in future, it will continue to be able to meet its outgoing payments largely from operating cash Net financial position flow. From the current perspective its financial management is Due to a decline in cash and cash equivalents, the net financial meeting the goal of ensuring its liquidity at all times essentially position at € 255.0 million, down from € 288.0 million in the without any additional external financing measures. In addiprevious year, is lower than forecast twelve months ago (signition, there has been a syndicated loan agreement of KSB SE & ficantly above the previous year). This development is essentialCo. KGaA and KSB Finanz S.A. since December 2018 to hedge ly attributable to an increase in inventories and higher payliquidity risk and cover the need for bank guarantees of the KSB ments for materials. Group. The credit line can be used at any time and has a fixed term of five years with the option to renew twice by one year Contingencies and commitments each time. The KSB Group’s off-balance sheet contingent liabilities totalled € 10.7 million as at the reporting date (previous year: For more information on liquidity management (such as credit € 7.2 million). These arise mainly from performance guaranlines) see the section on Risk Reporting on the Utilisation of tees. Financial Instruments elsewhere in this group management report. There are no other extraordinary obligations and commitments beyond the reporting date. Other financial obligations arise Investments only within the normal scope from long-term rental, lease and As in the previous year, the additions for tangible assets service agreements (in particular IT and telecommunications) amounting to € 13.0 million (previous year: € 12.5 million) necessary for business operations and from purchase commitprimarily concerned internally generated tangible assets. Adments amounting to € 12.4 million (previous year: € 12.2 vance payments for a new software to be deployed in Sales was million). reclassified to this balance sheet item in the year under review. Investments in property, plant and equipment in the reporting year amounted to € 66.6 million, considerably down on the figure of € 89.4 million for the previous year. The highest additions at € 21.5 million (previous year: € 29.0 million) relate to plant and machinery. A further € 20.3 million related to other equipment, operating and office equipment (previous year: € 21.8 million). As in 2017, the focus of investment activities was Europe, and predominantly Germany and France. Outside Europe, the highest additions were made at the plants in the USA, 86 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Economic Review 38.2 and supplies (€ + 19.6 million) and the effect resulting from the first-time application of IFRS 15 on the inventories presented (€ + 42.2 million). Inventories tied up around 24 % of resources (previous year: 20 %). Trade payables decreased from € 613.3 million at the 2017 year Equity ratio in percent end to € 518.1 million. This decline resulted mainly from receivables recognised by PoC that were no longer recorded in the reporting period. The receivables recognised by PoC in the previous year correspond to the contract assets from the application of IFRS 15 that are shown as a separate item in the year under review. Contract assets total € 74.5 million. Overall – NET ASSETS taking into account the change in total assets – this balance Around 27.5 % is attributable to fixed assets (previous year: sheet item accounts for approximately 23 % (previous year: 28.5 %). Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 27 %) of total assets. with a historical cost of € 1,476.2 million (previous year: € 1,424.3 million) have carrying amounts of € 587.7 million Other financial assets declined from € 117.0 million to € 103.4 (previous year: € 614.3 million). In intangible assets, goodwill million. This change essentially results from reduced other reimpairment of the South Korean company KSB Seil Co., Ltd. ceivables and other current assets (€ – 8.9 million). reduced the value by € 20.6 million and that of the French cash-generating units reduced the value by € 7.6 million. The In contrast, other non-financial assets rose by € 12.1 million. advance payments made decreased by € 24.5 million year on Here, recoverable taxes, essentially in France, Germany and the year and the internally generated intangible assets increased by USA, rose by € 9.3 million to € 40.1 million. € 30.2 million. This development essentially resulted from the reclassification of a selection software for the standard pump Cash and cash equivalents account for around 11 % of assets, programme and of a project whose objective is to introduce an totalling € 255.5 million (previous year: € 289.5 million). end-to-end e-sales process. The amounts for these two projects previously included in advance payments are reported under Total assets fell by 0.5 % to € 2,242.2 million. Considerable internally created intangible assets in the year under review. decreases were recorded for both non-current assets and curOverall, intangible assets decreased from € 108.1 million to rent assets. Inventories in current assets were the exception, € 91.1 million due to the above-mentioned impairment on recording a drastic increase. goodwill. With investments in property, plant and equipment (€ 66.6 million) lower than write-downs this year (€ 71.2 milEquity lion), this balance sheet item contracted by € 9.6 million. The The KSB Group’s equity amounts to € 856.8 million (previous carrying amount of financial assets, investments accounted for year: € 885.4 million). This includes KSB AG ’s subscribed using the equity method and long-term other non-financial ascapital of € 44.8 million as in the previous year. The capital sets rose by a total of € 0.2 million to € 28.5 million. The inreserve remains unchanged at € 66.7 million. Revenue reserves vestments accounted for using the equity method accounted for declined to € 577.8 million (previous year: € 611.9 million) € + 1.7 million. Deferred tax assets decreased to € 80.4 million essentially as a result of the transition to IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 (previous year: € 91.7 million) and negative currency translation differences; this figure includes the proportion of earnings after income tax attributable Inventories totalled € 544.4 million, up € 82.6 million from the to shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA of € 11.3 million (pre2017 year end. Raw materials, consumables and supplies as vious year: € 37.2 million). € 167.6 million (previous year: well as work in progress, finished goods and goods purchased € 162.1 million) is attributable to non-controlling interests. and held for resale increased. This increase was primarily atDue to these developments, the equity ratio fell to 38.2 % (pretributable to higher inventories of work in progress for orders vious year: 39.3 %) despite the 0.5 % decline in total equity and on hand (€ + 15.6 million), higher raw materials, consumables liabilities year on year. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 87 Economic Review Expenses in statement of comprehensive income (in %) 2018 42.1 34.5 4.7 18.7 2017 41.3 37.1 3.3 18.3 Cost of materials Staff costs Depreciation and amortisation Other expenses Balance sheet structure Assets (in %) 2018 4.1 22.1 1.3 3.6 24.3 3.3 29.9 11.4 2017 4.8 22.4 1.3 4.1 20.5 34.1 12.8 Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Investments accounted for using the equity method and other non-financial assets Deferred tax assets Inventories Contract assets Receivables and other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Equity and liabilities (in %) 2018 38.2 27.7 34.1 2017 39.3 30.1 30.6 Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities The non-controlling interests mainly relate to the following Liabilities companies: KSB Limited, India, and KSB Shanghai Pump Co., The largest item under liabilities continues to be provisions for Ltd., China, as well as the PAB subgroup. The latter consists employee benefits, including, also as the largest item, pension of Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, provisions, which decreased by € 33.3 million from € 586.9 Frankenthal, and its US subsidiaries. million to € 553.6 million. This development results primarily from the lump-sum option in the pension plans of the German Inflation and exchange rate effects companies applicable since 2018. Details and information on Of the Group’s consolidated companies only the annual finanthe impact on EBIT are set out in the Business Development cial statements of an Argentinian company had to be adjusted and Results of Operations section. for the effects of inflation. At € 0.3 million, this has not resulted in any material impact on our net assets, financial position On 2 October 2018, Heubeck AG published the new Heubeck or results of operations. 2018 G mortality tables. These contain the latest statistics of statutory pension insurance schemes and of the German Federal The translation of financial statements of consolidated compaStatistical Office and reflect the most up-to-date developments nies that are not prepared in euro gave rise to a difference of on mortality, disability, marriage and fluctuation probabilities. € – 13.8 million (previous year: € – 54.1 million). The total of currency translation differences was taken directly to equity. The new tables now take into account the statistically verifiable relation between life expectancy and the amount of pension paid. This is achieved via a general marking down of mortality rates. In addition, the new mortality tables reflect changed disability rates, as there has been a decline for more than ten years in the age range from 58 years. 88 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Economic Review The first-time application of the new mortality tables resulted shown under contract liabilities in the year under review. Othin an addition of € 4.8 million in the balance sheet; the closer financial liabilities fell by € 48.7 million. In the previous year ing balance of pension provisions in the year under review is this item included advance payments from PoC of € 49.4 mil€ 553.6 million. lion, which are also stated under contract liabilities in the year under review. Current financial liabilities increased by € 26.8 Obligations for current pensioners and vested benefits of emmillion. This is attributable to the tranche of the loan against ployees who have left the company account for about 45 % of borrower’s note due in 2019, which was reclassified from the amount recognised in the balance sheet. The rest relates to non-current financial liabilities to current financial liabilities in defined benefit obligations for current employees. the year under review. Taking into account the decline in total equity and liabilities, the share of current liabilities in total To understand the explanations on provisions and liabilities equity is 34.1 % (previous year: 30.7 %). compared with the previous year, it should be kept in mind that from the 2018 financial year accounting principles were amended so that some items previously allocated to provisions are  ummary of the Performance in the S now classified as liabilities. This did not have an impact on Financial Year earnings. The reclassification was performed retrospectively for the balance sheet figures of the previous financial year. Further The tangible improvement in order intake forecast in the preinformation on the impact on individual balance sheet items is vious year was not achieved. Essentially, this is attributable to presented in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. the negative currency translation effects described earlier. The Indian rupee, the Brazilian real and the Argentinian peso, in Non-current liabilities fell by € 24.2 million to € 30.1 million, particular, weighed on the order intake, as a result of which the due to the reclassification of the tranche of the loan against Pumps segment recorded no more than slight growth instead borrower’s note due in 2019 to current financial liabilities. The of a pronounced increase. The previous year’s forecasts can be loan against borrower’s note, which still amounts to € 48.0 confirmed for the other segments despite the burden resulting million, is expected to be repaid in 2019 and 2021. from translation effects. Orders received rose sharply in the Valves segment and remained stable in the Service segment. Current liabilities rose overall by € 74.3 million to € 765.0 million compared with € 690.7 million at the 2017 year end. The trend of sales revenue corresponded to that of order intake. Adjusted for currency translation, the forecast tangible increase Other provisions for employee benefits rose to € 34.4 million would have materialised, but the current exchange rates led to (previous year: € 28.0 million). no more than a moderate rise. Sales revenue in the Pumps segment rose slightly, rather than tangibly as forecast; similarly, Other provisions also increased from € 70.2 million in 2017 to the Valves segment fell short of the projected slight growth, € 84.9 million. While provisions for warranty obligations and recording a stable performance instead. In the Service segment contractual penalties as well as provisions for restructuring the forecast of tangible growth was confirmed. measures decreased, provisions for other obligations rose by € 20.7 million. This is essentially attributable to additions to The tangible improvement in EBIT predicted in the previous provisions from a legacy project in the United Kingdom totalyear failed to materialise due to unforeseen events. A considerling € 25 million, as mentioned earlier. able increase was expected for the Pumps segment, which materialised as forecast. However, this increase was not due to Trade payables rose to € 270.2 million (previous year: € 241.6 operational factors. For one, it was attributable to income from million). Other non-financial liabilities decreased by € 108.9 the decline in pension provisions resulting from the introducmillion. Advance payments received on orders, which were stattion of a lump-sum option in the pension plans of the German ed under this item at € 97.7 million in the previous year, are companies; for another, it was attributable to the provision KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 89 Dependent Company Report made in the first half of the year for a legacy project in the United Kingdom. In the Valves segment, in contrast, the expecDependent Company tation of a stable performance did not materialise. Expenses for the goodwill impairment of a South Korean company and imReport pairment losses on property, plant and equipment of a production facility in France weighed on EBIT for the Valves segment, The legal representative has submitted the dependent company which had to report a substantial decline as a result. Assumpreport to the Supervisory Board. This concludes with the foltions were also not confirmed for the Service segment, for which lowing declaration: “In accordance with Section 312(3) AktG significant growth had been forecast. Among other things, this [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act], we declare that is due to the goodwill impairment of two French cash-generatour company – on the basis of the circumstances known to us ing units. Instead, this segment reported a sharp decline. Like at the time when the transactions were made – received adethe sharp drop in EBIT described above, earnings before income quate compensation for all transactions listed in the dependent tax (EBT) and the return on sales fell significantly as a result of company report. No measures required to be reported were the effects described, falling short of expectations of a strong taken or not taken at the instigation or in the interest of Joincrease. At € 255.0 million, down from € 288.0 million in the hannes und Jacob Klein GmbH or a company affiliated to it.” previous year, the net financial position also fell strongly due to increased inventories and was thus lower than planned twelve months ago (significantly above the previous year). Accordingly, business performance in terms of order intake and sales revenue corresponded to expectations, apart from the negative exchange rate effects. Expectations for the earnings figures of the Group were not met overall owing to negative one-time special effects. On the whole, the picture emerging is that which KSB announced back in August 2018. For the two key indicators, order intake and sales revenue, the corrected forecast of a moderate rise was reached. In the same way, the corrected forecast of a considerable decline in EBIT materialised. KSB continues to have a healthy financial basis for the future. 90 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Report on Expected Developments Report on Expected Developments The International Monetary Fund has lowered its growth foreGross domestic product growth cast for the global economy in 2019 to 3.5 % in real terms. This World* means that the growth seen in the past years will decline slight2019 + 3.5 % (Forecast) ly. Among other factors, this development is due to the negative 2018 + 3.7 % consequences of the trade dispute between the USA and China. European Union Effects curbing growth in Europe dating from the second half 2019 + 1.5 % (Forecast) of 2018, including the risks in the Italian financial sector, a 2018 + 1.9 % decline in consumer spending in Germany and political uncerLatin America* tainties in France are additionally expected to linger in 2019. 2019 + 2.0 % (Forecast) For the United Kingdom, in particular, the forecast of around 2018 + 1.1 % 1.5 % is subject to high risk on account of the uncertainties Asia (excl. Japan)* associated with Brexit. Overall growth in the euro zone is ex2019 + 6.3 % (Forecast) pected to weaken to 1.6 %. 2018 + 6.5 % Emerging markets* The IMF forecasts anticipate a slowdown in the growth mo2019 + 4.5 % (Forecast) mentum in the USA to 2.5 %. The budget freeze at the start of 2018 + 4.6 % the year also has a negative impact on economic growth. Nev* Source: International Monetary Fund (January 2019) ertheless, the fiscal incentives suggest that consumer demand will remain high, which will also benefit imports. For the emerging markets and developing economies the IMF is projecting a growth rate of 4.5 %, i.e. only slightly below the previous year’s level. For the European emerging economies As far as manufacturers of liquid pumps in Germany are cona decline of the growth rate to 0.7 % overall is forecast despite cerned, the VDMA expects sales revenue growth of 1 % in the a good economic performance in Central and Eastern Europe; current year; for industrial valves, the association expects an this is solely due to the currency crisis in Turkey. increase of 2 %. For Asia the IMF is forecasting economic growth of 6.3 %, For global mechanical engineering, the VDMA projects similar, which is attributable in particular to the weakening momentum slightly weaker economic growth. For German mechanical engiin China of 6.2 %. By contrast, an increase in gross domestic neering, too, the VDMA forecasts the third consecutive boom product (GDP) of 7.5 % is anticipated for India, which benefits year and a price-adjusted rise of + 2 %, i.e. slightly below the from lower oil prices and a less restrictive monetary policy. previous year. Growth of 5.1 % is projected for the ASEAN countries, which also include important KSB markets. As far as liquid pumps in Germany are concerned, the VDMA expects real sales revenue growth of + 2 % in the current year; Growth in Latin America is expected to range at 2.0 %. The for industrial valves, the association expects a nominal increase recovery from the recession in 2015 and 2016 continues in of 2 %. Brazil and should lead to a 2.5 % rise in GDP this year. For new shipbuilding, Macquarie Research projects a slight deDespite the slowdown in the growth of the global economy the cline for 2019 after a slight increase in the year under review; for IMF expects persistently strong growth of gross investment the following years it forecasts no more than a stable perforworldwide. For the German mechanical engineering companies mance at the 2019 level. the German Mechanical Engineering Industry Association (VDMA ) expects positive stimuli for orders received from the two biggest markets, USA and China, among others. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 91 Report on Expected Developments SUMMARY OF EXPECTED DEVELOPMENT Expected development Despite the weaker global economic growth, the underlying conditions are, generally speaking, expected to be good for an Actual 2018 Forecast 2019 expansion of business in and outside Europe. Overall, the KSB Order intake € 2,303.5m € 2,350m – € 2,500m Group is looking forward to further order intake growth in the Pumps € 1,506.2m Substantial increase current year because it tends to lag slightly behind the economValves € 355.6m Tangible increase ic cycle. The main drivers of business will be standard products, Service € 441.7m Substantial increase support services and spare parts. Given that customers remain Sales revenue € 2,245.9m € 2,300m – € 2,450m very willing to invest, the number of major projects for which Pumps € 1,469.4m Substantial increase products tailored to project specifications are supplied in addiValves € 340.8m Substantial increase tion to standard pumps and valves, is expected to increase. Service € 435.7m Tangible increase Overall, the order intake is expected to increase to € 2,350 EBIT € 74.7m € 95m – € 115m million to € 2,500 million and sales revenue is expected to rise Pumps € 90.6m Slight decline to € 2,300 million to € 2,450 million. Considering that the Valves € – 37.4m Substantial increase earnings for the current financial year will be impacted by oneService € 21.5m Substantial increase time special effects, EBIT is forecast to grow to € 95 million to € 115 million overall for the 2019 financial year. Pumps Order intake in the Pumps segment will rise substantially in the in 2019 compared with 2018. For the Valves segment KSB course of the year although the situation in the field of conventherefore projects a substantial rise in EBIT. tional power stations remains critical and there are also signs that demand for pumps in industry and mining will be muted. Service Instead, a significant increase in order intake is to be expected A focus of the growth strategy is on expansion of the service from water and waste water management and from building business. Consequently, substantial growth of the order intake services. In the oil and gas industry the extension of the product for support services and spare parts is projected for the current range may provide fresh stimuli for customer orders. Sales revyear, with a focus on industry. The spare parts warehouses in enue for pumps will also increase substantially in 2019, helped Germany, Brazil and South Africa will be equipped with new by the invoicing of project orders from 2018 and previous software to make processes faster and smoother. In addition, years. Despite the expected substantial rise in sales revenue KSB new component warehouses will be established in China, India is expecting EBIT for this segment to decline slightly in 2019 and South East Asia. Specifically in China a spare parts factory due to this year’s one-time special effects totalling € + 7.4 is planned to be built with a view to reducing delivery times million. significantly. Sales initiatives will help communicate the range of service offerings in growth markets more effectively and win Valves new customers. This also applies to support services that are A tangible increase in order intake is expected in the Valves newly developed and offered in the wake of the digital transforsegment in the current year. A rising number of orders are mation. For sales revenue in the Service sector the Group is anticipated from industry, including but not limited to the projecting tangible growth while forecasting a substantial inchemicals and petrochemicals industries, and from the transcrease in EBIT in 2019. This assumption is based on the continport sector. In construction / building services and in industry, ued expansion of the service business under the new KSB the planned growth will be based on new products and in the SupremeServ brand. water and waste water sector on improved demand from East and South East Asia. By contrast, a further decline in demand The forecast horizon for all the afore-mentioned measures is the for globe, butterfly and gate valves for the energy sector is to 2019 financial year. be expected. Sales revenue lags behind the order intake for valves and is therefore anticipated to show substantial growth 92 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Report on Expected Developments FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains forward-looking statements and information that are based upon the assumptions of Management. They express current forecasts and expectations with regard to future events. As a result, these forward-looking statements and information are exposed to risks and uncertainties that lie outside the Management’s sphere of influence. KSB wishes to point out that actual events or results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements and information presented, if one or more of the following opportunities or risks, or other opportunities, risks and uncertainties should materialise, or if the assumptions underlying the statements prove to be inaccurate. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 93 Opportunities and Risks Report Opportunities and Risks Report As an organisation that operates throughout the world, the KSB petitive risks, technological risks, projectand product-related Group is exposed to macroeconomic, sector-typical, financial risks, financial risks and procurement risks. Other business and company-specific risks. The risk policy is designed to enarisks (environmental, human resources, etc.) are also reported ble KSB to grow sustainably and profitably. The KSB Group in this cycle to the Risk Managers at the Group headquarters. aims to reduce the risks associated with its business and where A distinction is made between qualitative risks and quantitative possible avoid them completely. At the same time its global risks, not considering any action that has been taken or planned: alignment and extensive product range offer a wealth of opportunities. This includes but is not limited to any opportunities Qualitative risks are long-term developments that could have that arise on the basis of research and development activities, a negative impact on the KSB Group and which cannot or canas well as any that are linked to the quality and cost effectivenot yet be thoroughly quantified due to a lack of precise inforness of products. KSB ’s competitive position is also being mation. In order to be able to evaluate them all the same, howstrengthened by optimising the global sales and production ever, estimates of the probability of occurrence and scope are network. KSB always reviews opportunities to expand its globmade using defined evaluation categories. With respect to probal presence and is able to achieve this through start-ups and ability of occurrence, the extent to which the information indiacquisition projects. cating the potential risk is detailed must be determined. The Group sees opportunities and risks as possible future deQuantitative risks are those risks with possible monetary imvelopments or events that may lead to departures from forecast pact on the earnings of the KSB Group or the respective Group or targets. The departure can be both positive and negative. In company. They are evaluated taking into account the specificalorder to manage the varied opportunities and risks professionly calculated probability of occurrence in combination with the ally and efficiently, the Group aligns its actions accordingly and potential amount of loss. focuses upon the respective situation when selecting the persons responsible. In doing so, Controlling, Finance and Accounting The scope or amount of loss describes the potential influence as well as Internal Audits perform important monitoring tasks. of the individual risk on the redefined key indicator of earnings before finance income / expense and income tax (EBIT) of the RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM KSB Group or the respective Group company, not considering KSB has implemented a Group-wide risk management system any action that has been taken or planned. for identifying and assessing relevant risks and reporting these to Group headquarters. The risk management process of the In order to assess whether qualitative and quantitative individKSB Group consists of the successive phases of identification, ual risks are material for KSB, they are classified as acceptable, assessment, management, control, documentation and communeutral or significant risks. All individual risks categorised as nication of risks. The six phases form a continuous and IT neutral or significant that are detailed in the “Individually asbased closed-loop system. This is documented in KSB ’s risk sessed opportunities and risks” section are considered to be management manual as well as the management responsibility material for the KSB Group. The relevant classification can be and the description of all relevant tasks. determined from the matrices below: Qualitative risks – Quantitative risks Managers are encouraged to take timely action to define and implement measures to limit or avoid damage that may result from the occurrence of risk events. All corporate and central functions and Group companies, including Group companies that are not consolidated, are included in the risk management system. The responsible managers are required to supply their relevant key business and financial indicators each month. As well as creating quarterly forecasts on business trends, they also twice a year report the recognised risks for the next 24 months from the reporting date for the categories of market and com94 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Opportunities and Risks Report Qualitative risks Quantitative risks Probability of occurrence Probability of occurrence Significant High Significant High >70 % Neutral Medium Neutral Medium 30 –70 % Low Low Acceptable Acceptable < 30 % Low Medium High Low Medium High Scope Amount of loss Classification of amount of loss Amount of loss in € thousands Magnitude Sales revenue Low Medium High Small companies Up to € 20 million 50 – 125 125 – 250 > 250 Medium-sized companies € 20 to € 80 million 75 – 250 250 – 500 > 500 Large companies, holding companies, organisational units From € 80 million 100 – 500 500 – 1,000 > 1,000 Evaluation of the amount of loss at KSB is based on just three coordinates the risk management process at Group level and possible classifications: low, medium and high. The following investigates all reported risks to determine whether they are criteria apply: relevant for the financial statements. This ensures that there is Classification of amount of loss a systematic link with the Group accounting process. The Managing Directors and the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee This approach offers the necessary transparency to identify receive at least two risk reports per financial year. These reports risks in their entirety and to manage them effectively, profesinclude all the risks that are categorised as significant or neutral sionally and in an economically responsible manner. that exceed pre-defined threshold values individually or collectively, not considering any action that has been taken or planned The bodies to which specific responsibilities and competencies (gross risk). Particularly critical topics are reported on an ad-hoc were assigned in KSB’s risk management system in the reporting basis by the managers in charge. In contrast, opportunities are year are shown and explained in the diagram below. not taken into account in KSB’s current risk management sysRisk management at KSB tem. They are reported separately by segment managers and regional managers purely in qualitative terms, without further As the legal representative, KSB Management SE assumes overquantification. all responsibility for risk management. KSB Management SE reports to the Supervisory Board of KSE SE & Co. KGaA via its With regard to financial risks KSB makes use of additional risk Managing Directors during regular Audit Committee meetings identification, assessment, management and communication. and is monitored by the latter. The Managing Directors are supThe central Finance department is responsible for this task ported by the Chief Compliance Officer and the Group Finance which is described in further detail later in this section. and Accounting department of KSB SE & Co. KGaA. The latter KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 95 Opportunities and Risks Report Risk management at KSB Supervisory Board KSB Management SE Administrative Board Managing Directors Auditors Risk Managers Internal Audits • A udit of the annual financial • C ontrolling the risk management • M onitoring of proper functioning statements ­process and effectiveness • Recommendations for improvement • Analysing the risk reports • Reporting to the Board of Management Risk Owners • Risk identification • Risk evaluation • Risk control and monitoring (incl. implementation of measures) • Risk recording • Risk communication / Ad hoc reporting Compliance risks are dealt with by the Chief Compliance OfINTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND RISK MANAGEMENT ficer, who is assigned to the Legal and Compliance, Patents and SYSTEM WITH REGARD TO THE GROUP ACCOUNTING Trademarks staff function. The Chief Compliance Officer is PROCESS supported by the members of the Compliance Committee and The accounting-related internal control system (ICS) contribthe Compliance Managers of the individual companies. utes towards ensuring proper financial reporting. The aim is to ensure that the consolidated financial statements and group The Internal Audits department is integrated into the risk manmanagement report comply with all relevant regulations. Key agement system as part of the internal control system. When elements of the ICS are – as well as the risk management system planning audits, it prioritises areas according to potential risks described above – guidelines and regulations, which include and is provided with all the necessary information. The auditors standard accounting and measurement policies. They must be ensure that all audited units adhere to the applicable guidelines, applied to the full extent by all Group companies. There is a actively participate in the risk management system, and control separation of functions and the four-eye principle is applied. or avoid their risks. Information obtained by Internal Audits on This is ensured by the audits carried out by the Internal Audits both the identified risks and the countermeasures initiated in department. response forms an integral part of the reporting to the Managing Directors and to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. In addition, the Accounting department carries out regular analytical plausibility checks using time series analyses and actuThe risk management system is regularly reviewed and promptal / budget variance analyses. This enables KSB to identify sigly updated where necessary, for example, in the event of relevant nificant changes early on, which are examined for accounting legal or organisational changes. In addition, the auditors examand measurement discrepancies. The resulting findings are then ine within the scope of the annual audit the early risk detection discussed at management level. system, establishing that it is present and checking that it is fit for purpose. 96 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Opportunities and Risks Report The responsibility for Group accounting lies with the employINDIVIDUALLY ASSESSED OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS ees in the central Accounting KSB Group department. KSB emThe categories presented below include the gross risks classified ploys the services of qualified external reviewers for certain as significant or neutral and the main opportunities for business calculations as part of financial reporting (such as the calculadevelopment as at 31 December 2018. Where risks are not destion of complex pension obligations using actuarial assumpignated as significant, they were classified as neutral risks. tions). Markets / Competition Binding schedules and guidelines apply to accounting within the KSB Group and to accounting at each individual subsidiary. Risks The accounting and measurement methods that must be The business opportunities of KSB are again affected by changapplied to compile the consolidated financial statements are es in the economic and political environments in the current defined in writing in a manual that is updated and revised on a reporting year. The Group manages the risk of fluctuations in continual basis. This also includes the guidelines for posting the economy and in demand by remaining active in several intra-group transactions. New accounting principles and other markets and industries with different economic cycles. Furtherofficial announcements are continually analysed with regard to more KSB is monitoring the development of the economic entheir relevance and impact on the consolidated financial statevironment for its markets. If necessary, capacities are adjusted, ments. Guidelines and manual are adapted where necessary and production facilities relocated and cost-cutting measures impleany changes communicated immediately to the companies. Acmented. counting KSB Group monitors compliance with these regulations. This reduces the risk of compiling inappropriate financial Asia remains the most important sales market for power plant statements or failing to publish them by the defined deadlines. equipment, including pumps and valves. The competitive situation in China has not eased by comparison with the previous The financial statement information for all Group companies year. The associated increased pressure on prices thus also conis automatically processed using certified and tested standard stitutes a “significant” risk in the current financial year. Political consolidation software. Systematic checks are implemented to decisions too, such as the postponement or even abandonment help validate the data. Employees in Accounting KSB Group of energy projects in several Chinese provinces, have impacted verify any warning signals that arise before using the data. The negatively on business performance. In order to tap into the sequence of the processing steps is strictly specified through the Asian market more widely, KSB agreed a strategic alliance with use of the consolidation monitor within the IT system. This a long-term partner, the Chinese SEC Group, in late 2015. This ensures the correct processing of data. aims at closer cooperation so that KSB can achieve success in Asian power plant projects outside of China. To enable a seamless and accurate accounting process, only employees who have the appropriate specialist know-how are The risk from the political situation in various parts of this assigned to this task. These employees are trained on a regular world, however, regained in significance year on year. Most basis to make sure that their expert knowledge remains up to important in this context is the development of relations bedate. Since the year under review, the process is also supported tween the United States and Iran. Due to the US sanctions by a harmonised chart of accounts used throughout the Group. against Iran, there are no opportunities to continue ongoing projects in Iran. Consequently, there is a risk that the costs alAccess authorisations have been defined for the accountingready incurred on local projects have to be borne without conrelated IT system. This protects the data against unauthorised sideration. The protectionist tariff policy of the United States access as well as improper usage and modification. The data is also weighs on business due to the associated global decline in checked at many stages, helping to ensure the processing qualdemand. The worsening of the conflict in the Middle East, esity. Alongside regular system reviews by the auditors, these pecially in Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Iran and Israel, as well as the checks contribute to limiting operational risks. development of the political situation in Turkey, may have a negative impact on business. In addition, the East / West relations that are under considerable strain given the political difKSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 97 Opportunities and Risks Report ferences between Russia and the USA, and between Russia and Projects / Products most European countries, continue to be significant. This also becomes apparent in the Russian government’s import substiRisks tution programme. Russian companies are to increasingly order The markets’ requirements for the products of the KSB Group products that have been made in Russia or involve a high proare constantly changing. The Group will only succeed if it meets portion of local value added. The KSB company in Moscow has its delivery deadlines and offers technically advanced products prepared for this development, setting up a local assembly site in good quality at affordable prices. To minimise the risk of for industrial and water engineering pumps in leased premises. delivery delays, which can lead to an adverse effect on KSB’s Additionally, KSB completed the establishment of its own proreputation with customers and also result in financial penalties, duction site, which is due to start operating in 2019. it constantly monitors its sales and manufacturing operations. If it discovers that machinery needs to be renewed or capacities The departure of the United Kingdom from the European Unexpanded, these investment projects are examined as part of a ion harbours risks both for the local sales and service company step-by-step approval process. By doing this, KSB counters the and for the other units with business partners in the United risk of schedule and cost overruns that is rated as “significant”. Kingdom. In general, there is still uncertainty about the future provisions; however, delays in goods trade, for example, may Regular market analysis and monitoring minimise the risk that result from increased border checks. In total, the United Kingproducts will become technically obsolete or are offered at pricdom accounts for 1.2 % of sales revenue in the Group. es not acceptable in the market. At the same time, KSB is exposed to the risk posed by cheap products from Eastern Europe Opportunities and Asia that compete with KSB’s portfolio. This calls for conMajor contracts for infrastructure development projects are to tinuous quality management, which has been introduced across be awarded in the two Asian growth countries China and India the Group. in 2019. Due to KSB’s strong presence in these countries, there is a good chance that it will be involved as a supplier of pumps, In KSB’s business, there are special requirements when it comes valves and services. The expansion of nuclear energy continues to the processing of large-scale projects with long contract in China and India, for which local plant engineering contracterms. There are also always associated risks. There may be cost tors require high-safety pumps and valves. In addition, owing overruns, tighter import regulations, staff shortages, technical to targeted activities in the service market KSB expects to be difficulties or quality problems – including possible contractuable to sell more services and spare parts in China, in particular. al penalties – that reduce margins. KSB therefore trains its employees in project management and equips them with specialist By broadening its portfolio of pumps to API specifications the knowledge. This enables them to identify the risks associated KSB Group has steadily improved its position in the oil processwith longer-term orders at an early stage. In addition, project ing industry since 2016. Here, the order situation is expected to managers are provided with appropriate management tools. improve over 2018. Decisions are made in conjunction with clearly structured authorisation processes. From 2020, new regulations of the International Maritime Organisation IMO will apply. According to this specialised UN agency, all ships on the high seas will have to use fuel with a substantially lower sulphur content to reduce air pollution from ships worldwide. Refineries will invest in the technology for processes to produce this fuel. This should increase demand for refinery pumps. Moreover, ships which continue to use fuel with a high sulphur content will be retrofitted with exhaust gas cleaning systems. This would have a correspondingly positive impact on order intake. 98 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Opportunities and Risks Report There are also technical and financial risks to orders with newFinance / Liquidity ly designed products. Technical risks are limited to the extent that intermediate steps for development work are defined and Risks partial solutions are subjected to assessments. This also applies As a group with global operations, KSB is exposed to a wide to pumps that are to be provided within the framework of a variety of currency risks. This significant risk is countered with major contract running over a number of years for the conforeign exchange hedges. However, the global manufacturing struction of a new type of power plant in China. Commercial network also offers the opportunity to benefit from currency risks are minimised by using appropriate contractual clauses. effects and to use these where appropriate in competition with Care is taken to ensure that advance payments usually cover other manufacturers. In addition to uncertainties regarding exthe costs incurred. Suitable provisions are set aside for warranchange rates, interest rate developments on the capital markets ty obligations and contractual penalty risks. These amounted play a role. In material individual cases in the past KSB counto € 46 million in the consolidated financial statements for tered the interest rate risk involved in bank loans subject to 2018 compared with € 51 million in the previous year; beyond variable interest rates by hedging future interest payment flows this KSB sees no other major residual risk (net risk). accordingly. In the current financial year KSB saw no need for such hedging. Opportunities Submersible borehole pumps, like those required in well fields, Alongside the euro, the most important currencies for the KSB in mining and on drilling platforms, are increasingly used in Group are the US dollar, the Indian rupee, the Brazilian real and higher performance ranges. Accordingly, KSB has extended the the Chinese yuan. If the exchange rate differs from the assumpportfolio to include pumps which – with drive ratings up to tions made, this would have positive or negative effects on busi5 MW – deliver flow rates of up to 5,000 m³ per hour. For heads ness volumes and earnings. A strict receivables management up to 1,500 m KSB, as one of only two producers worldwide, system and the use of trade credit insurance helps KSB avoid has also been offering double-entry submersible borehole situations where receivables cannot be collected from custompumps since 2018, which offer relatively greater protection ers. against failure. This competitive edge improves KSB’s position as a supplier for major, technically sophisticated projects. Risks regarding margins and liquidity are typical of the project business. As well as the continued pressure on selling prices, At the ACHEMA 2018 industry fair KSB presented new digital which is reducing profit margins, these include unfavourable products that are used for service activities. They include use of contract conditions such as reduced advances and tougher cona control system that records status data of pumps in a system. tractual penalties. As KSB complies exactly with the approval It indicates to the customer – or alternatively, KSB directly – processes in the quotation phase, this risk is minimised. At the when servicing is required. When the system is commissioned same time, this enables KSB to recognise and avoid liquidity or on-site repairs are carried out, KSB is able to provide local shortages. Where necessary, sufficient liquidity is secured by specialist personnel with direct and appropriate support using agreeing appropriate credit lines early on. Augmented Reality Service technology without specialists having to travel to the site. This saves the customer time and Persistent recessions or newly emerging crisis may adversely expense. These and other innovative services enable the KSB affect the financial situation of customers. Resulting delays in Group to consolidate its market position and to improve order payment and bad debts which were rated as “significant” in the opportunities. financial year would weigh on the results of operations. The same effect might occur if the foreign exchange regulations become stricter for individual countries. KSB counters this by means of a strict receivables management system and intensive customer contacts. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 99 Opportunities and Risks Report Changing market conditions mean that business models need entities find themselves in such a situation, losses are in part to be fundamentally reviewed and the product range adjusted offset by their parent company. If the situation continues, KSB accordingly time and again. A further potential consequence of will consider reorganisation measures or a review of the busimarket developments that exert a permanent strain is an imness model of the company in question. pairment loss on goodwill and assets. If impairment testing in accordance with IAS 36 shows a need for impairment, KSB Procurement recognises a corresponding expense in the financial year. There is also a residual risk with regard to the development of premRisks ises that cannot be controlled and on which the earnings are Commodity prices and procurement times are subject to strong based. In the current financial year an impairment loss of € 20.6 market-related fluctuations. This may adversely affect KSB ’s million was incurred in respect of goodwill of the South Korean earnings situation if it does not manage to make up for cost company KSB Seil Co., Ltd. Based on current estimates, a reincreases or pass them onto its customers. Delays or bottlenecks sidual risk of € 0.8 million remains for the future. For other in the supply chain for raw materials and components may companies with goodwill we have taken into account the risk negatively impact KSB’s business operations. If KSB does not assessment through sensitivity analyses to estimate the risk of benefit promptly from declining procurement prices, the persisimpairment. Further information can be found in the Notes to tent pressure on the selling price of products would have a the consolidated financial statements in Section IV . Balance negative impact on earnings. Sheet Disclosures under “Intangible assets”. In the context of the procurement strategy, KSB is also careful As regards tax matters, the global orientation of the activities to avoid becoming dependent on individual suppliers and thereof the KSB Group must be taken into consideration. Based on by counteract the risk of a supplier default. If local conditions its operative activities in numerous countries with varying tax mean that it is impossible to ensure sufficient diversification in laws and administrative interpretation, differentiated assessthis regard, KSB will make use of additional foreign business ment is required for measuring tax obligations. Uncertainty partners. In selected cases, external expertise is integrated into may arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on our company, not least to make the best possible use of capacthe one hand and local finance authorities on the other. These ity. may come to light during audits. By cooperating closely with external local tax specialists, KSB counteracts the risk of having Opportunities to pay back taxes. As KSB continually monitors unclear issues, KSB reorganised global purchasing and continued to improve it can generally classify the probability of occurrence. Should a processes to increase the efficiency of work in this area in 2018. need for subsequent payment arise, the corresponding proviThis also applies to the increased number of online measures sions are created in good time. In the 2018 consolidated finanthrough which KSB makes a global comparison of purchasing cial statements, like in the previous year, we did not set aside terms and conditions for goods and services with little investany provisions for circumstances that are classified as a signifment. The Group will benefit from these measures in the current icant or neutral risk. In addition, there are contingent liabilities year. in the expected amount of € 1.5 million (previous year: € 1.6 million). The changes support the competitiveness of KSB and also provide the foundation for the successful digitalisation of purchasConcentration on a small number of customers entails depending. In this way KSB secures the opportunities for having perencies which, in the event of the loss of a customer, could result manent access to the best suppliers. It also enhances its appeal in a material slump in order intake and sales revenue and thus to talented buyers who help achieve KSB’s corporate goals. to a burden on earnings for some French service companies. The pressure which individual customers can exert on the company in these cases rises and may result in increasing concessions having to be made by the supplier. If individual Group 100 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Opportunities and Risks Report Technology / Research and Development A particular focus of development activity in past years has been on pumps for the oil and gas industry which are in comRisks pliance with the API standard. The programme launched in It is essential to future success to have a product and service 2016 was continued in the year under review and the portfolio range that is suited to the market in terms of technology, price expanded to include further sizes and additional versions, and delivery time. The changing needs of customers and new which increases the likelihood of order successes. standards and regulations – especially in promising markets such as China – require the continuous development and imOther business-specific risks – Environment provement of products and services. Research and development required for adjustments consumes significant financial and Risiks human resources, with no guarantee of success in either the KSB ’s business activities, primarily in the area of production, medium or the long term. are subject to numerous environmental protection laws and regulations. Environmental damage of any kind (for example, To avoid any negative impact on earnings, it is important to groundwater contamination, renovation needed due to outrecognise the market-related or technical risks early on. To this dated construction materials or unpleasant odours arising end, the KSB Group is constantly updating the development from the use of chemicals) may result in losses not covered by process, which incorporates various control levels. As sales eman insurance policy. Therefore, at all company sites officers ployees are regularly included in this process, risks arising from monitor compliance with laws and regulations as well as with changes in markets or applications can be taken into account internal KSB rules. If KSB discovers any contamination, it sets in good time in the evaluation. aside provisions to meet the liabilities for the necessary cleanup work. In the 2018 consolidated financial statements, these Opportunities amounted to just under € 0.2 million for significant or neutral In the Business Innovation Lab KSB works in interdisciplinary risks, as in the previous year. teams to explore new business models on the basis of digital technologies. By including plant-based data KSB is able to offer As part of acquisition projects, KSB examines properties for its customers solutions to make their liquid transport methods possible contamination before purchase. Critical issues are more secure and more efficient while ensuring a higher level of taken into account by way of corresponding contractual regtransparency of their processes. Several of these models are ulations with the seller and appropriate measures are implecurrently undergoing testing for functionality and marketabilmented in consultation with the seller. ity. They are applied in line with the business opportunities they offer. In markets where environmental regulations are becoming more stringent, there is a risk that KSB products and own or Through the digital transformation approach there is a greater purchased services may cause infringements that lead to KSB focus on the permanent external monitoring and communicalosing its market authorisation and which damage KSB ’s tion of systems. Sensors and communications modules are bereputation. A change in rules on liability in environmental coming an integral part of this new type of system. The new protection can also increase the risks for business success. As cloud-based system for continuous pump monitoring enables a member of national and international professional associacustomers to order support services before problems materialtions the KSB Group becomes aware of imminent changes in ise, which ultimately benefits KSB’s business. The Group is also environmental law early on. The legal frameworks that are in investigating approaches for self-learning monitoring software, place in its Operational Units are continually updated, enathe electronic change of fixed speeds – as an alternative to mebling KSB to ensure that its employees always abide by the chanical adjustments – as well as the miniaturisation of power applicable law. This is also monitored by external auditors as electronics and its integration in the motor. part of the management certifications. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 101 Opportunities and Risks Report Opportunities Changing market conditions can have a negative impact on the At KSB, environmental management is combined with an acfunded status of pension obligations. Strong fluctuations in the tive and forward-looking approach as well as internal processevaluation of capital market interest rates to be paid may have es that enable permanent cost reductions. This applies, for a considerable impact on the Group’s earnings and the equity instance, to all measures that reduce energy consumption in carried on the balance sheet. Alternative models are validated production, service and in the administrative areas. Inversely, to mitigate this risk. the KSB Group offers the users of its products the opportunity to reduce their electricity costs by selecting energy-efficient Changes to our processes and organisational structure, such as KSB products. the introduction of shared services centres, require clearly defined project responsibilities and valid project plans, as well as Hazards to people and nature may emanate from the producthe selection of suitably qualified external partners. This helps tion and processing methods of manufacturing companies. to avoid teething troubles when changes are introduced to The global environmental management system helps identify structures and processes, as such problems could impact on the these risks early on and initiate protective measures in good expected cost benefits. time. KSB thereby not only prevents pollution, but also its financial consequences. Other potential risks associated with the activities of KSB ’s employees include dishonest conduct or violations of laws, Drawing on a functioning and certified environmental manwhich could damage the image of KSB. The KSB Group counagement system, KSB fulfils a requirement of numerous pubters these risks and safeguards its reputation among customers lic-sector customers, large companies and entire industries by organising regular compliance training and through individsuch as the automotive sector. For them, evidence of an enviual initiatives in critical regions. ronmental management system is an increasingly important criterion in the selection of suppliers. By having its production Legal disputes cannot always be avoided within the framework and service plants checked by auditors and certified to interof business activities. These are usually disputes arising from national standards, the KSB Group and its customers are both operations, generally involving unclear warranty issues. If as a assured that KSB companies respect the environment. KSB’s result of these issues KSB expects negative effects on the success commitment to the UN Global Compact also meets the exof its business, corresponding provisions are set aside, which pectations of its customers and improves order opportunities cover not only the anticipated amount of loss, but also the costs with companies that pick their suppliers with a view to their of proceedings. To rule out a net risk, the 2018 consolidated responsibility for the environment and society, among other financial statements include about € 2 million (previous year: things. € 1 million) for those cases classified as significant or neutral risks. Provisions for litigation with authorities and for staff Other business-specific risks – Human resources, legal matters have been created in the amount of just under € 2 milaspects and IT lion overall (previous year: € 3 million) to cover any cases classified as significant or neutral within the risk assessment methRisks odology. Overall, the risk from legal disputes in the financial To achieve its growth and profitability business objectives, KSB year is rated to be significant. needs qualified employees at all locations, including technical specialists. Due to the demographic change in some countries, the competition for these and other highly skilled professionals is increasing, and will intensify in the course of the economic recovery. KSB counters this risk with demand-oriented measures, systematic human resources planning and international recruitment processes. 102 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Opportunities and Risks Report Government decisions, such as cost sharing for projects to exstitute material risks for the business of the KSB Group. KSB pand infrastructure in the vicinity of KSB properties, may also adjusted its strategy accordingly and discontinued its business adversely affect KSB’s earnings. with Iran. Nevertheless, a risk remains with regard to projects started and the associated outstanding payments. Worsening The manipulation and loss of electronic data can lead to serious payment morale also bears corresponding risk potential for commercial disadvantages. KSB limits this risk by means of future business. As regards the economic development, the risk adequate security systems and access procedures. An increased assessment compared with the previous year has changed in centralisation of the IT systems of the various operating units that the conflict in the Middle East could lead to an oil crisis assists KSB in this. In this way, high security standards are imand is thus a significant risk for the KSB Group. The economic plemented and the risk of data loss or corruption is reduced. development in general continues to be the most significant risk due to the difficulty of assessability. By contrast, the KSB Group KSB seeks to counter increased external fraud activities by raiscontinues to hope that the measures intended to foster growth ing awareness of fraud attempts. At the same time, KSB is inwill provide it with considerable support in achieving its goals. creasing its compliance requirements. KSB’s customers are also often affected by recessions and more intense competition, which can decrease their ability to pay in Opportunities individual cases. 2018 saw the launch of a programme designed to enhance KSB ’s appeal as an employer and improving the opportunities Negative currency changes in growth countries could threaten for identifying and retaining the right employees for forexports, in particular those from KSB’s European plants. But ward-looking positions. This applies, for example, to young this would also enable the production facilities in the countries talent to help shape the Group’s digital transformation. Target affected to benefit from such developments and to increase their group-appropriate recruitment processes were developed for export volumes. these and other specialists, at times departing from the traditional avenues of personnel recruitment. The scope of opportunities has not changed materially since the previous year. Moreover, the introduction of a global HR management system is being prepared, which will form the basis of strategic RISK REPORT ON THE UTILISATION OF FINANCIAL human resources planning. The improved transparency of INSTRUMENTS employee-related data will enable KSB to deploy people in an Central financial management in the KSB Group performs its optimum way, taking into account their individual knowledge duties within the framework of the guidelines laid down by KSB and skills, and to open new career opportunities for them, Management SE as the legal representative. The KSB Group including in other countries. bases the nature and scope of all financial transactions exclusively on the requirements of its business. It does not lend itself IMPORTANT OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS to business of a speculative nature. The aim is to ensure liquidBY SEGMENT ity at all times and to finance activities under optimal condiAs in the previous year, the opportunities and risks for the tions. With respect to the export business, foreign exchange and Pumps, Valves and Service segments are most influenced by credit risks are hedged to the greatest extent possible. KSB coneconomic development. The future development of China tinuously improves its receivables management methods with remains important to KSB . A material factor for Pumps and the goal of settling outstanding amounts by their due dates. Valves, and to a lesser extent for Service, continues to lie in the uncertainties regarding the political risk, which have increased in some countries compared with the previous year. Political decisions in China regarding energy projects and the East / West relations, which remain under considerable strain, and as of this year also the relations between the United States and Iran, conKSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 103 Opportunities and Risks Report KSB is exposed to the following financial risks as a consequence OVERALL ASSESSMENT OF OPPORTUNITIES AND RISKS of its business activities: The opportunities and risks for the KSB Group are mainly derived from macroeconomic influencing factors and their effects On the one hand, KSB is exposed to credit risk, which is defined on the global mechanical engineering markets and the compeas potential default or delays in the receipt of contractually tition. agreed payments. It is also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial obliThe overall risk situation as at the reporting date of 31 Decemgations, or will be unable to meet them in full. In addition, KSB ber 2018 tightened compared with the previous year. This is is exposed to market price risk. Exchange rate or interest rate due to the political developments described in the risk situation changes may adversely affect the economic position of the by segment and their impact on the markets. Moreover, geopoGroup. Risks from fluctuations in the prices of financial instrulitical instabilities, decisions on sanctions and volatile currenments are not material. cies had a negative impact on business volume and on planned earnings. Overall, KSB expects an economic performance in line Foreign exchange hedges are used to reduce the risks from with the IMF forecast for next year. transactions involving different currencies. These are generally currency forwards, which KSB uses both for transactions that In this environment, the KSB Group continues to rely on its have already been recognised and for future cash flows from ability to match capacities and resources to the changing marorders still to be processed. At year end, the notional volume ket conditions. A solid financial position and an efficient cost of currency forwards used to hedge exchange rate risks was structure are vital in order to maintain long-term competitive€ 238.3 million (previous year: € 276.5 million). Foreign curness. KSB is convinced that it can continue to successfully overrency items denominated in US dollars account for the major come the risks arising from the above-mentioned challenges. volume hedged by forwards. By strengthening its production sites worldwide, KSB can make use of “natural” currency hedgThe scope of opportunities has not changed materially since the ing in currency markets that continue to be volatile. previous year. To minimise interest rate risks, interest rate swaps are concludThe risk management system in place as well as the related ed in material individual cases to hedge cash flows from underorganisational measures allow KSB Management SE as the legal lyings. No hedging via interest rate swaps took place in the representative to identify risks in a timely manner and to take current financial year. adequate measures. In view of the somewhat uncertain situation, the focus of activities in 2019 will continue to be on the All these risks are limited through an appropriate risk managemanagement of market risks. The legal representative states ment system, defining how these risks are addressed through that, based on the risk management system established by the guidelines and work instructions. In addition, the current risk KSB Group, at present there are no risks that threaten business characteristics are continuously monitored and the information continuity and could lead to a lasting and material impact on obtained in this way is provided to the Managing Directors and the net assets, financial position and results of the KSB Group. the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports and individual analyses. For more information on the three risk areas and the impact on the balance sheet, see the Notes, Section VI. Additional Disclosures on Financial Instruments. 104 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Acquisition-related Disclosures Acquisition-related Disclosures A summary of the acquisition-related disclosures required by The company is authorised by a resolution passed at the AnnuSection 315(4) HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commeral General Meeting on 6 May 2015 to purchase, until 5 May cial Code] is given below and explanatory information is pro2020, company shares of any type totalling up to 10 % of the vided pursuant to Sections 175(2) and 176(1) AktG [Aktiencurrent share capital or, if lower, of the share capital at the time gesetz – German Public Companies Act]. Information is disof this authorisation being exercised. The Board of Manageclosed only to the extent that it applies to KSB SE & Co. KGaA ment shall be entitled to: (1) sell company shares purchased on (KSB AG until 17 January 2018). In the following, only the the basis of this authorisation either on the stock exchange or term KSB SE & Co. KGaA will be used. by another means that safeguards the rule of equal treatment of all shareholders, for example by means of an offer to all of The share capital of KSB SE & Co. KGaA amounts to € 44.8 the company’s shareholders; (2) sell the acquired shares of the million, of which € 22.7 million is represented by 886,615 company with the consent of the Supervisory Board, excluding no-par-value ordinary shares and € 22.1 million by 864,712 shareholders’ subscription rights, if the shares are sold for cash no-par-value preference shares. Each no-par-value share repreand at a price that is not materially lower than the market price sents an equal notional amount of the share capital. All shares for company shares of the same type and with the same features are bearer shares. They are listed for trading on the regulated at the time of the sale. This authorisation is limited to the sale market and are traded in the General Standard segment of the of shares that overall represent no more than 10 % of the exFrankfurt Stock Exchange. isting share capital on the date on which such authorisation becomes effective or, if the amount is lower, the date this auEach ordinary share entitles the holder to one vote at KSB SE thorisation is exercised. The 10 % limit shall be reduced by the & Co. KGaA’s Annual General Meeting. Some 84 % of ordinary proportional amount of share capital for shares (i) issued withshares are held by Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenin the scope of a capital increase during the term of the authorthal (until 4 May 2017, the company operated as Klein Pumisation excluding subscription rights pursuant to Section 186(3) pen GmbH), whose shares are majority-owned by KSB Stiftung Sentence 4 AktG or (ii) to be issued for the purpose of servicing [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart. The preference shares carry sepawarrants and convertible bonds, provided that the bonds were rate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive addiissued during the term of the authorisation excluding subscriptional dividend rights. Detailed information on the share capition rights pursuant to Section 186(3) Sentence 4 AktG; (3) sell tal and shareholders holding an interest of more than 10 % is the shares with the consent of the Supervisory Board, excluding provided in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. shareholders’ subscription rights, to third parties for the purHolders of preference shares are entitled to voting rights only pose of acquiring companies, parts thereof and /or financial in the cases prescribed by law. The issue of additional ordinary interests in companies as well as within the scope of corporate shares does not require the consent of the preference shareholdmergers or (4) redeem the acquired shares without any further ers. Similarly, the issue of additional preference shares does not resolution of the Annual General Meeting in full or in part, require the consent of the preference shareholders provided that including in several partial steps. The redemption may also take the subscription rights do not exclude newly issued senior or place without a capital reduction by adjusting the proportionpari passu preference shares. al amount of the other no-par-value shares in the company’s share capital. In such cases, the legal representative shall be KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 105 Acquisition-related Disclosures authorised by the Articles of Association to adjust the number of no-par-value shares. KSB SE & Co. KGaA has not yet made use of this authorisation to purchase treasury shares. There are no resolutions by the Annual General Meeting authorising the company’s legal representative to increase the share capital (authorised capital). In accordance with its Articles of Association, KSB SE & Co. KGaA was managed by at least two Board of Management members until 17 January 2018. The Supervisory Board decided on the appointment and termination of the mandate of members of the Board of Management in accordance with the statutory provisions. Since 17 January 2018, KSB Management SE has conducted the business of KSB SE & Co. KGaA. According to the Articles of Association, the business of KSB SE & Co. KGaA is managed by the legal representative, which acts through the four Managing Directors. Amendments to the company’s Articles of Association are resolved by the Annual General Meeting. If the amendments only affect the wording of the Articles of Association, they can be made by the Supervisory Board, which operates and is formed in accordance with the regulations of the German Co-determination Act. 106 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance Statement (Section 315d HGB in Conjunction with Section 289f HGB) Corporate Governance Statement (Section 315d HGB in Conjunction with Section 289f HGB) The Corporate Governance Statement pursuant to Section 289f HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] in conjunction with Section 315d HGB dated 13 March 2019 is accessible to the public at www.ksb.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance / Corporate Governance Statement. In addition to the Corporate Governance Report (including the Statement of Compliance in accordance with Section 161 Aktiengesetz [German Public Companies Act]), the Corporate Governance Statement includes relevant information on corporate governance practices applied at KSB SE & Co. KGaA that go above and beyond statutory requirements. Also described are the working practices of KSB Management SE as the general partner and the Supervisory Board, and the composition and working practices of the committees of the Supervisory Board. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 107 Statement on the Non-financial Report (Sections 315b, 315c in Conjunction with Sections 289b to 289e HGB) Statement on the Non-financial Report (Sections 315b, 315c in Conjunction with Sections 289b to 289e HGB) The combined separate non-financial report is prepared in accordance with Sections 315b, 315c in conjunction with 289b to 289e HGB and disclosed together with the group management report in accordance with Section 325 HGB. The report can be accessed at: www.non-financial-report2018.ksb.com 108 Group Management Report KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Report Remuneration Report The remuneration report provides information on the prinThe remuneration of the Managing Directors consists of fixed ciples of the remuneration system for the general partner and variable components. Fixed components are granted re(KSB Management SE) including its Managing Directors and gardless of performance and consist of a fixed sum plus benefits, Administrative Board. It is prepared in accordance with the as well as pension commitments (retirement, disability, widow’s recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code or orphan’s pension). The fixed sum makes up 60 % of the (item 4.2.5). normal annual salary and is paid out as a monthly basic remuneration. All Managing Directors are equally entitled to the 1. REMUNERATION OF THE GENERAL PARTNER accompanying fringe benefits which include the private use of In accordance with the Articles of Association of KSB SE & Co. a company car, payment of insurance premiums and any payKGaA (the “company”), the general partner receives annual ments associated with a post-contractual non-competition remuneration not based on profit and loss in the amount of 4 % clause. No loans or advance payments were granted to Managof the share capital for the management and assumption of ing Directors in the past financial year. personal liability. Accordingly, € 20 thousand was spent on this by KSE SE & Co. KGaA in the 2018 financial year. To ensure the sustainability of the nature of the remuneration, the variable remuneration component includes a long-term According to the Articles of Association, the company additioncomponent, which accounts for around two thirds of the varially reimburses the general partner for any expenses incurred able remuneration. It is calculated on the basis of the net profin connection with the management of business operations; this it of the KSB Group plus depreciation / amortisation. Its calcurelates but is not limited to the remuneration of the members lation in the form of a rolling, weighted three-year average esof the governing bodies of the general partner. sentially includes the effect of the future financial years over the contract term. The short-term variable portion of remuneration 2. REMUNERATION OF THE MANAGING DIRECTORS is linked to three reference values in equal part. In addition to The general partner is responsible for the management of the the Group’s key indicators of EBIT margin and sales revenue, company. The Administrative Board of KSB Management SE the calculation is based on the personal goals of the Managing appoints its Managing Directors and is responsible for the conDirectors. These goals are set in such a way that their fulfilment tracts of service of the Managing Directors. This responsibility has a positive impact on the relevant performance area beyond includes the structure of the remuneration arrangements, the the year under review. amount of remuneration and their regular review. The total amount of the variable remuneration components is The remuneration arrangements for the Managing Directors limited in order to take extraordinary, unforeseen developments are structured as transparently as possible. The total amount of into account. remuneration for the individual Managing Directors is determined based on various parameters. Criteria for assessing the The weighting factors above do not reflect the additional appropriateness of the remuneration include the responsibilities possibility of a bonus, to be paid out in individual cases at the of the individual Managing Directors, their personal perfordiscretion of the Administrative Board, of no more than three mance, the economic situation, the company’s success and cusmonthly salary payments per financial year in recognition of tomary remuneration amounts when taking peer companies any special performance of individual Managing Directors. and the remuneration structure used elsewhere within the comSuch decisions are only made on an irregular basis, meaning pany into consideration. that they do not necessarily have to be made annually. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Group Management Report 109 Remuneration Report Furthermore, when contracts of service are concluded, care is taken to ensure, in accordance with item 4.2.3 of the German Corporate Governance Code, that payments made to a Managing Director in the event of his or her tenure being terminated prematurely without good reason shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration including fringe benefits (settlement cap) and shall not exceed the remuneration due for the remaining term of the contract of service. No other payments have been promised to any Managing Director in the event of termination of service; similarly no compensation will be paid in the event of a takeover offer. If the contract of service of a Managing Director is terminated for cause, the company shall not make any severance payments. On 6 May 2015 – using a legally permissible option – the Annual General Meeting resolved not to disclose the details of the compensation for a period of five years. 3. REMUNERATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE BOARD The shareholder of KSB Management SE, Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH, decides on the remuneration of the Administrative Board. The remuneration essentially consists of a fixed sum which covers the time spent attending up to 15 meetings of the Administrative Board. A daily or hourly rate in line with usual market rates is agreed for any extra time spent. Fringe benefits for the Administrative Board have not been agreed and will not be granted. Its members are, however, covered by directors’ and officers’ (D&O) liability insurance [VermögensschadenHaftpflichtversicherung] taken out by the company under usual market conditions in favour of the Administrative Board. Frankenthal, 13 March 2019 KSB Management SE The Managing Directors 110 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 4 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 111 Consolidated Financial Statements 112 Balance Sheet 113 Statement of Comprehensive Income 114 Statement of Changes in Equity 116 Statement of Cash Flows 117 Notes Consolidated Financial Statements 181 List of Shareholdings 185 Supervisory Board 186 Legal Representatives 187 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA General Information 112 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Balance Sheet Balance Sheet Assets € thousands Notes 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 91,089 108,054 Property, plant and equipment 2 496,659 506,214 Non-current financial assets 3 1,773 6,132 Other non-financial assets 4 2,914 – Investments accounted for using the equity method 5 23,855 22,185 Deferred tax assets 18 80,391 91,736 696,681 734,321 Current assets Inventories 6 544,430 461,877 Contract assets 7 74,499 – Trade receivables 7 518,116 613,311 Other financial assets 7 103,388 116,970 Other non-financial assets 7 49,504 37,402 Cash and cash equivalents 8 255,545 289,535 1,545,482 1,519,095 2,242,163 2,253,416 Equity and Liabilities € thousands Notes 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Equity 9 Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 577,756 611,855 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA 689,191 723,290 Non-controlling interests 167,600 162,108 856,791 885,398 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 18 10,252 14,703 Provisions for employee benefits 10 578,640 606,875 Other provisions 10 1,377 1,397 Financial liabilities 11 30,099 54,333 620,368 677,308 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 10 9,287 8,033* Other provisions 10 83,557 68,806* Financial liabilities 11 48,777 21,960 Contract liabilities 11 157,389 – Trade payables 11 270,212 241,630* Other financial liabilities 11 32,767 81,467 Other non-financial liabilities 11 154,689 263,600* Income tax liabilities 11 8,326 5,214 765,004 690,710 2,242,163 2,253,416 * Restated compared with presentation in the 2017 Annual Report. Further information is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 113 Statement of Comprehensive Income Statement of Comprehensive Income Income statement € thousands Notes 2018 2017 Sales revenue 12 2,245,948 2,204,958 Changes in inventories 22,554 – 49 Work performed and capitalised 7,332 5,588 Total output of operations 2,275,834 2,210,497 Other income 13 33,050 69,170 Cost of materials 14 – 934,545 – 887,820 Staff costs 15 – 765,462 – 796,732 Depreciation and amortisation 1, 2 – 104,491 – 70,593 Other expenses 16 – 416,869 – 392,414 Other taxes – 12,815 – 15,753 74,702 116,355 Finance income 17 4,893 6,417 Finance expense 17 – 16,544 – 20,106 Income from / expense to investments accounted for using the equity method 17 2,510 1,514 – 9,141 – 12,175 Earnings before income tax 65,561 104,180 Taxes on income 18 – 41,644 – 52,076 Earnings after income tax 23,917 52,104 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 19 12,618 14,923 Shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA 11,299 37,181 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 20 6.26 21.10 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 20 6.64 21.36 Statement of income and expense recognised in equity € thousands Notes 2018 2017* Earnings after income tax 23,917 52,104 Remeasurement of defined benefit plans 10 – 10,736 9,328 Taxes on income 3,341 – 3,843 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods – 7,395 5,485 Currency translation differences – 13,276 – 54,238 Attributable to: Expense and income recognised directly in equity attributable to investments accounted for using the equity method 451 – 2,225 Changes in the fair value of financial instruments: Hedging reserve – 5,571 8,804* Taxes on income 1,665 – 2,737* Attributable to: Expense and income recognised directly in equity attributable to investments accounted for using the equity method – 37 – Changes in the fair value of financial instruments: Hedging cost reserve – 53 – 1,601* Taxes on income 18 480* Expense and income recognised directly in equity and reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods – 17,217 – 49,292 Other comprehensive income – 24,612 – 43,807 Total comprehensive income – 695 8,297 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests 12,983 – 62 Shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA – 13,678 8,359 Further information is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. * Prior-year value restated under IFRS 9 114 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Statement of Changes in Equity Statement of Changes in Equity Subscribed capital of Capital reserve KSB SE & Co. of KSB SE & Co. € thousands KGaA KGaA 1 Jan. 2017 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income tax – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid – – Capital increase / decrease – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2017 44,772 66,663 Subscribed capital of Capital reserve KSB SE & Co. of KSB SE & Co. € thousands KGaA KGaA 31 Dec. 2017 44,772 66,663 Impact of transition to IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 – – 1 Jan. 2018 (restated under IFRS 9 and IFRS 15) 44,772 66,663 Other comprehensive income – – Earnings after income tax – – Total comprehensive income – – Dividends paid – – Capital increase / decrease – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2018 44,772 66,663 Equity attributable to shareholders of NonKSB SE & Co. controlling Total Accumulated currency translation differences (€ thousands) KGaA interests equity Balance at 1 Jan. 2017 – 44,507 – 5,264 – 49,771 Change in 2017 – 39,262 – 14,881 – 54,143 31 Dec. 2017 – 83,769 – 20,145 – 103,914 Balance at 1 Jan. 2018 – 83,769 – 20,145 – 103,914 Change in 2018 – 14,501 652 – 13,849 31 Dec. 2018 – 98,270 – 19,493 – 117,763 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 115 Statement of Changes in Equity Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Changes in Changes in the fair value the fair value Equity of financial of financial attributable to Other Currency instruments: instruments: Remeasurement shareholders of revenue translation Hedging Hedging cost of defined KSB SE & Co. Non-controlling Total reserves differences reserve* reserve* benefit plans KGaA interests equity 836,530 – 44,507 – 5,181 582 – 173,186 725,673 164,661 890,334 – – 39,357 6,157 – 1,121 5,499 – 28,822 – 14,985 – 43,807 37,181 – – – 37,181 14,923 52,104 37,181 – 39,357 6,157 – 1,121 5,499 8,359 – 62 8,297 – 9,857 – – – – – 9,857 – 2,491 – 12,348 – – – – – – – – – 980 95 – – – – 885 – – 885 – – – – – – – – 862,874 – 83,769 976 – 539 – 167,687 723,290 162,108 885,398 Revenue reserves Other comprehensive income Changes in Changes in the fair value the fair value Equity of financial of financial attributable to Other Currency instruments: instruments: Remeasurement shareholders of revenue translation Hedging Hedging cost of defined KSB SE & Co. Non-controlling Total reserves differences reserve* reserve* benefit plans KGaA interests equity 862,874 – 83,769 976 – 539 – 167,687 723,290 162,108 885,398 – 9,218 – – – – – 9,218 –7 – 9,225 853,656 – 83,769 976 – 539 – 167,687 714,072 162,101 876,173 – – 13,686 – 3,906 – 35 – 7,350 – 24,977 365 – 24,612 11,299 – – – – 11,299 12,618 23,917 11,299 – 13,686 – 3,906 – 35 – 7,350 – 13,678 12,983 – 695 – 13,360 – – – – – 13,360 – 2,506 – 15,866 – – – – – – – – 3,032 – 815 – – – 80 2,137 – 4,978 – 2,841 20 – – – – 20 – 20 854,647 – 98,270 – 2,930 – 574 – 175,117 689,191 167,600 856,791 * Prior-year value restated under IFRS 9 116 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Statement of Cash Flows Statement of Cash Flows € thousands 2018 2017 Earnings after income tax 23,917 52,104 Depreciation and amortisation / Write-ups 104,491 71,445 Increase / decrease in non-current provisions – 41,305 9,947 Gain / loss on disposal of fixed assets – 957 – 9,150 Other non-cash expenses / income – 455 29 Cash flow 85,691 124,375 Increase / Decrease in inventories – 50,834 – 15,725 Increase / Decrease in trade receivables and other assets – 7,522 – 21,001 Increase / Decrease in contract assets – 6,606 – Increase / Decrease in current provisions 10,320 8,231 Increase / Decrease in advances received from customers – 15,536 Increase / Decrease in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities) 35,997 10,535 Increase / Decrease in contract liabilities – 4,433 – Other non-cash expenses (operating) – 1,260 – 1,260 – 24,338 – 3,684 Cash flows from operating activities 61,353 120,691 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 1,778 4 Payments to acquire intangible assets – 13,932 – 11,941 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,263 20,224 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 69,203 – 88,526 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 6 218 Payments to acquire non-current financial assets – 843 – 819 Payments to acquire consolidated companies – 5,650 – Proceeds from / Payments for investments in Group companies that are not fully consolidated 681 295 Proceeds from commercial papers 29,979 74,820 Payments for commercial papers – 19,990 – 29,979 Proceeds from term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) 596 55,825 Payments for term deposits (maturity of more than 3 and up to 12 months) – 16,180 – 28,447 Other non-cash expenses / income – 165 Cash flows from investing activities – 90,495 – 8,161 Dividends paid for prior year – Shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA (Notes No. 9) – 13,360 – 9,857 Dividends paid for prior year – Non-controlling interests – 2,506 – 2,491 Payments for loan against borrower’s note – – 74,500 Proceeds from financial liabilities 23,702 8,671 Payments for financial liabilities – 15,757 – 27,821 Payments to acquire non-controlling interests – 1,512 – Cash flows from financing activities – 9,433 – 105,998 Changes in cash and cash equivalents – 38,575 6,532 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 4,585 – 6,828 Effects of changes in consolidated Group – 948 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 289,535 288,883 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 255,545 289,535 Cash flows from operating activities include cash flows from interest received amounting to € 4,618 thousand (previous year: € 6,139 thousand) and cash flows from income tax totalling € – 23,780 thousand (previous year: € – 40,193 thousand). Cash flows from investing activities for the 2018 financial year include cash flows from dividends ­received of € 1,029 thousand (previous year: € 1,654 thousand). Cash flows from financing activities include cash flows from interest expense of € – 4,888 thousand (previous year: € – 8,649 thousand). Further information is presented in Section VII. Statement of Cash Flows in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 117 Notes Notes I. GENERAL INFORMATION ON THE GROUP financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA therefore meet the requirements of the IFRSs as applicable in the EU. The consolKSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany, is a capital idated financial statements were prepared on a going concern market-oriented partnership limited by shares [Kommanditgebasis in accordance with IAS 1.25. They were prepared using sellschaft auf Aktien] under the law of the Federal Republic of the historical cost convention, with the exception of measureGermany. The company is registered with the Handelsregister ment at market value for available-for-sale financial assets and [German Commercial Register] of the Amtsgericht [Local measurement at fair value through profit and loss for financial Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein, registration No. HRB 65657, assets and liabilities (including derivatives). Investments in joint and has its registered office in Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany. By ventures and associates were measured using the equity method. entry in the Commercial Register on 17 January 2018, KSB Aktiengesellschaft changed its legal form to SE & Co. KGaA. The financial year of the companies consolidated is the calendar The general partner is KSB Management SE, a European public year. limited company. The shares in this company are wholly owned (100 %) by Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH, a subsidiary of The income statement as part of the statement of comprehensive the non-profit KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation] and the non-profincome has been prepared using the nature of expense method. it Kühborth-Stiftung GmbH [Kühborth Foundation]. KSB SE & Co. KGaA and thus the KSB Group are managed via KSB All material items of the balance sheet and the income statement Management SE , which has four Managing Directors and a are presented separately and explained in these Notes. five-member Administrative Board. The main accounting policies used to prepare the consolidated KSB SE & Co. KGaA is the ultimate and immediate parent financial statements are presented below. The policies described company whose consolidated financial statements include the were applied consistently for the reporting periods presented single-entity financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA. The unless stated otherwise. consolidated financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The consolidated financial statements and the group manageStandards as adopted by the EU are published in the Bundesanment report, as well as the annual financial statements and manzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. agement report of the Group’s parent company, are submitted to and published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal GaThe KSB Group is a global supplier of high-quality pumps, zette]. valves and related systems and also provides a wide range of support services to users of these products. The Group’s operThe present consolidated financial statements, due to be apations are divided into three segments: Pumps, Valves and Serproved by the Supervisory Board on 20 March 2019, will be vice. approved for publication on 28 March 2019 by the Managing Directors of KSB Management SE. Basis of preparation of the consolidated financial ­statements New accounting principles The accompanying consolidated financial statements of KSB SE a) Accounting principles applied for the first time in & Co. KGaA were prepared in accordance with the Internationthe 2018 financial year al Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EuThe following new and revised Standards issued by the Interropean Union (EU) and the additional requirements of German national Accounting Standards Board (IASB) were required to commercial law under section 315e(1) HGB [Handelsgesetzbe applied for the first time in financial year 2018: buch – German Commercial Code]. To do so, the Conceptual Framework and all Standards applicable at the reporting date In July 2014, the IASB published IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and adopted by the European Commission for use in the EU that as the successor to IFRS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition are of relevance to the KSB Group as well as the interpretations and Measurement. IFRS 9 specifies new rules for classifying and of the IFRS Interpretations Committee were applied. For the measuring financial instruments, new rules regarding the impurposes of this document, the term IFRSs includes applicable pairment of financial assets and also revised rules for recognisInternational Accounting Standards (IASs). The consolidated ing hedges. The modified retrospective method was used for 118 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes application as at the date of first-time adoption. The resultant ed purpose. IAS 28 clarified that on initial recognition there is effects are presented in Section III. Accounting Policies in the an option, for every investment in an associate or joint venture “Impact of the introduction of new accounting standards” on an individual investment basis, to measure an investment in sub-section. Under the transitional provisions, the option of an associate or joint venture held by an entity that is a venture presenting the comparative information for the 2017 financial capital organisation or another qualifying entity at fair value year in accordance with IAS 39 was used. through profit or loss. In May 2014, the IASB published the new IFRS 15 Revenue The amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment relate to the from Contracts with Customers standard. The new accounting accounting treatment of cash-settled share-based payment standard defines principles that an entity should apply to report transactions. Some of the new provisions concern the calculaon the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and tion of the fair value of obligations resulting from share-based cash flows arising from a contract with a customer. Sales revenue payments. is recognised when the customer has control over the agreed goods and services and can derive benefits from these. It superThe changes to IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts aim to reduce the sedes the following previous Standards and Interpretations: impact of the differing start dates for IFRS 9 Financial InstruIAS 11 Construction Contracts, IAS 18 Revenue, I­ FRIC 13 Cusments and the successor standard to IFRS 4, above all for entitomer Loyalty Programmes, IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Conties with comprehensive insurance activities. struction of Real Estate, IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers and SIC-31 Revenue – Barter Transactions Involving IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance ConsidAdvertising Services. eration clarifies the exchange rate to be used on initial recognition for the conversion of foreign currency transactions that IFRS 15 was applied for the first time on 1 January 2018 using include the receipt or payment of advance consideration. the modified retrospective method. Accordingly, the cumulative impact on earnings from the change was recognised at the beIAS 40 Investment Property has been amended in order to clarginning of the reporting period in revenue reserves. The comify that an entity may only transfer a property to or out of its parative figures for the 2017 financial year were not restated. investment property portfolio if there is evidence of a change In addition, the option of simplified first-time adoption was of use. used and IFRS 15 was only applied to contracts that had not yet been complete on 1 January 2018. The resultant effects are The above listed new or revised accounting Standards and Inpresented in Section III. Accounting Policies in the “Impact of terpretations adopted for the first time in the reporting year had the introduction of new accounting standards” sub-section. no or no material impact on the Group’s net assets, financial position and results of operations, except for IFRS 9 and Three standards were amended through the Annual ImproveIFRS 15. ments to IFRS Standards 2014 – 2016 Cycle. The changes to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities have had to b) Accounting principles that have been published but be applied since 1 January 2017. There were further revisions that are not yet mandatory to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS and IAS 28 Investments The following Standards and revised Standards issued by the in Associates and Joint Ventures which have had to be applied IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) were not yet mandasince 1 January 2018. The short-term exemptions in paragraphs tory and were not applied in the 2018 financial year: E3–E7 of IFRS 1 were deleted, as they had served their intendIFRS announcements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 119 Notes IFRS announcements First-time adoption in the EU Changes to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 Jan. 2019 IFRS 16 Leases 1 Jan. 2019 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatment 1 Jan. 2019 Changes to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 1 Jan. 2019 Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards (2015 to 2017) 1 Jan. 2019 Changes to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 Jan. 2019 Amendments to the cross-references in the Conceptual Framework in IFRS 1 Jan. 2020 Revision of IFRS 3 Business Combinations 1 Jan. 2020 Changes to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 8 Accounting Policies 1 Jan. 2020 IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 Jan. 2021 As a matter of principle, the new or revised Standards or Interthe form of a right-of-use asset (right to use the leased item) pretations shown in the table have not been adopted early. and a corresponding lease liability for the payment of lease Apart from IFRS 16 Leases, no or no material impact on the instalments. The interest expense for the lease liability and denet assets, financial position and results of operations is expectpreciation / amortisation expense for the right-of-use asset must ed from the IFRS announcements. be recognised separately. IFRS 16 Leases was published in January 2016 and must be Under IFRS 16, lessees have the option of not capitalising shortapplied to financial years that begin on or after 1 January 2019. term leases (leases with a lease term of less than twelve months) The new lease standard replaces IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Deterand leases with a low-value underlying asset. If this option is mining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease, SIC 15 used, the lease will be accounted for in a comparable way to Operating Leases – Incentives and SIC 27 Evaluating the Subthat previously stipulated under IAS 17 for operating leases. stance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. KSB will be making use of these options. This approach was the basis for the expected impact resulting from the transition KSB will be applying IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019. The standas at 1 January 2019, as presented in the following. It has also ard will be implemented using the modified retrospective methbeen taken into account that as part of the transition, KSB will od for first-time adoption. exercise the option for existing leases of recognising the rightof-use assets at the amount of the lease liabilities. For the purIFRS 16 specifies the new rules on recognising, measuring, preposes of determining fair value in these cases, no initial direct senting and disclosing leases on a more detailed basis compared costs, such as payable commissions, were included in the measwith IAS 17. The classification into operating and finance leasurement of the expected carrying amount of the right-of-use es shall no longer apply to lessees in future. Under IFRS 16, all assets as at 1 January 2019. leases must be presented by the lessee in the balance sheet in 120 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes For subsequent accounting purposes, lessees must remeasure The cash flows from operating leases were part of cash flows the lease liability to reflect specific events (such as a change in from operating activities in the year under review. Upon firstthe lease term or change in future lease payments arising from time adoption of IFRS 16 and the related capitalisation of these changes in the index or interest rate applied to determine the leases, the amortisation component of cash flow from financing lease payments). Lessees will in general recognise the amount activities will fall, while the interest portion in cash flow from of the remeasured lease liability as an adjustment to the rightoperating activities will remain the same. of-use asset. The new rules for lessors from IFRS 16 have minor significance KSB has reviewed all of the Group’s existing leases for the specfor KSB and will not have any material effect on the consoliifications of IFRS 16 and analysed the likely impact of the indated financial statements. troduction of IFRS 16 on the Group’s net assets, financial position and result of operations for the 2019 financial year. The II. BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION standard is deemed to have a significant impact on operating lease agreements in force in which KSB is the lessee. Consolidated Group In addition to KSB SE & Co. KGaA, 9 German and 74 foreign KSB expects to capitalise lease liabilities of around € 43 million companies (previous year: 9 German and 73 foreign compaas at 1 January 2019 and, in line with the envisaged use of the nies) were fully consolidated. A majority interest is held, either option permitted, right-of-use assets of the same amount, with directly or indirectly, in the voting power of these subsidiaries potential variations of + / – 5 % percentage points to be taken which the KSB Group has the option to control under IFRS 10. into account for each item. The balance sheet total will accordingly increase by some € 43 million through the recognition of Subsidiaries are companies controlled by the Group. The Group right-of-use assets under assets and the recognition of lease licontrols a company if it is exposed, or has rights, to variable abilities under equity and liabilities. Equity will not have to be returns from its involvement with the company and has the restated at the transition point due to the chosen approach of ability to affect those returns through its power of disposition recognising lease liabilities and right-of-use assets at the same over the company. The financial statements of subsidiaries are amount. included in the Group’s financial statements from the date on which control begins until the date on which control ends. No material effect is expected on EBIT from the amended presChanges in the investment ratio that do not result in a loss of entation in the income statement in the form of interest expenscontrol are treated as a transaction between shareholders and es from lease liabilities and depreciation / amortisation of the recognised directly in equity. Such transactions do not result in right-of-use assets compared with the expenses for operating the recognition of goodwill or the realisation of disposal profits. leases shown under IAS 17. The consolidation principles apply accordingly to joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method. Upon the loss of joint control or significant influence any retained interest in the investee is remeasured at fair value through profit or loss. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 121 Notes Associates are companies in which the Group has significant The following table shows the subsidiaries with non-controlling influence but does not have control or joint control over finaninterests that are material subsidiaries of the KSB Group. “Seat” cial and business policy. A joint venture is an agreement through refers to the country in which the main activity is performed. which the Group exercises joint control, in that it has rights to M aterial subsidiaries with non-controlling interests the net assets of the agreement rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities. The shares in companies inInformation on the subgroup that comprised the subsidiaries cluded at-equity are measured at cost of acquisition plus or of the KSB Group listed in the following table as at 31 Decemminus cumulative changes in net assets, with recognised goodber 2018 is summarised under the name “PAB”. will reported in the carrying amount of the investment. C omposition of the PAB subgroup 31 Dec. 2018 The Thai company KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, and the The summarised financial information regarding the KSB Indian company KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune), are included in Group’s material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests the group of fully consolidated affiliates despite the fact that and the PAB subgroup considered here is provided below. ExKSB holds less than 50 % of the voting rights. KSB does, howcept for the details on the PAB subgroup, this information corever, have the power to determine their business and financial responds to the amounts shown in the subsidiaries’ financial policies and thus the level of variable returns. statements prepared in accordance with IFRS prior to intercompany eliminations. KSB gained control over KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune), in which KSB owns 40.54 % of the shares, through contractual agreeThe required intercompany eliminations were taken into conments with other shareholders. These agreements ensure that sideration for the PAB subgroup. The details on the PAB subKSB has the majority of voting rights in management commitgroup also include financial information of KSB AMRI Inc., tees and also exercises control over the budget. Houston / Texas, in which KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, held an 89.97 % stake throughout the previous KSB also exercises control over KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, year and also in the reporting year until the company was liqin which it owns 40 % of the shares, through additional agreeuidated on 6 December 2018. ments which give KSB the majority of voting rights in manageS ummarised balance sheet ment committees and control over the budget. S ummarised statement of comprehensive income C ondensed statement of cash flows Affiliates that were not consolidated due to there being no material impact are reported as other investments under non-current other financial assets in the year under review. They were shown under non-current financial assets in the previous year. 122 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests Non-­ controlling Earnings after income interest in tax attributable to nonAccumulated Name and seat capital controlling interests non-controlling interests € thousands 2018 / 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 PAB , Germany / USA (subgroup) 49.00 % 6,312 7,457* 81,920 72,134* KSB Limited, India 59.46 % 5,059 4,742 55,116 53,508 KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., China 20.00 % – 254 – 847 10,222 10,569 Individually immaterial fully consolidated subsidiaries with non-controlling interests 1,501 3,571* 20,342 25,897* Total amount of non-controlling interests 12,618 14,923 167,600 162,108 * Restated compared with presentation in the 2017 Annual Report. Composition of the PAB subgroup 31 Dec. 2018 Capital share Cons. No. Name and seat Country in % Held by No. 1 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany 51.00 – 2 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 1 3 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA 100.00 2 4 KSB Dubric, Inc., Comstock Park / Michigan USA 100.00 2 5 KSB , Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA 100.00 2 6 KSB , Inc. – Western Division, Bakersfield / California USA 100.00 2 7 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA 100.00 2 Summarised balance sheet PAB KSB Limited KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. € thousands / 31 Dec. 2018 2017* 2018 2017 2018 2017 Non-current assets 69,422 60,271 47,404 48,551 27,851 25,398 Current assets 150,681 142,424 107,463 101,760 145,085 137,263 Non-current liabilities – 13,140 – 8,564 – 2,340 – 5,223 – – Current liabilities – 39,779 – 46,918 – 59,832 – 56,330 – 121,824 – 113,214 Net assets 167,184 147,213 92,695 88,758 51,112 49,447 * Restated compared with presentation in the 2017 annual report. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 123 Notes Summarised statement of comprehensive income PAB KSB Limited KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. € thousands 2018 2017* 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sales revenue 212,570 185,007 133,180 127,563 158,278 146,291 Earnings after income tax 12,882 15,219 9,365 8,804 – 1,269 – 5,478 Other comprehensive income 8,496 – 18,748 – 3,890 – 4,083 2,934 7,893 Comprehensive income 21,378 – 3,529 5,475 4,721 1,665 2,415 Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 4,163 – 9,187 – 2,313 – 2,428 587 1,579 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 10,475 – 1,729 3,255 2,807 333 483 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests – – – 1,538 – 1,549 – – * Restated compared with presentation in the 2017 annual report. Condensed statement of cash flows PAB KSB Limited KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd. € thousands 2018 2017* 2018 2017 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities 9,286 18,987 9,883 – 3,606 11,210 9,495 Cash flows from investing activities – 20,722 – 12,170 – 7,597 – 10,354 2,250 193 Cash flows from financing activities – 1,178 – 178 325 – 2,867 – 3,179 – 9,121 Changes in cash and cash equivalents – 12,614 6,639 2,611 – 16,827 10,281 567 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 19,486 15,051 10,264 28,241 2,258 2,292 Effects of exchange rate changes 528 – 2,204 – 382 – 1,150 191 – 301 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 7,400 19,486 12,493 10,264 12,730 2,558 * Restated compared with presentation in the 2017 annual report. Acquisitions and divestments property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets of KSB Dubric, Inc., Michigan (USA) was established in order to € 4,911 thousand. The goodwill arising from the transaction expand the service network in the American Midwest. The comamounts to € 2.4 million. pany acquired the assets of the DUBRIC Group on 28 February 2018 and has been fully consolidated from that date. KSB From the date of acquisition, KSB Dubric, Inc. contributed Dubric, Inc. is specialised in servicing and selling pumps, other € 4.8 million of sales revenue to the Group’s consolidated sales rotating equipment and the corresponding spare parts. The KSB revenue. The contribution to consolidated earnings after inGroup owns 51 % of the shares. come tax for the consolidation period was € – 695 thousand. The purchase price of the assets and liabilities acquired was The costs incurred by the KSB Group through the acquisitions € 5.6 million. The fair value of non-current assets included was € 283 thousand. They are reported in the income statement under other operating expenses. In addition, the first-time con124 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes solidations had the following impact on the consolidated balwhich was not fully consolidated due to there being no mateance sheet: rial impact, was also sold in the middle of the year under review. First-time consolidations – Impact on balance sheet The impact of the above changes on the consolidated financial statements was not material. € thousands 2018 Non-current assets 4,913 A full list of the shareholdings held by the KSB Group is proCurrent assets – 4,523 vided at the end of these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Assets 390 Statements. Equity – Non-current liabilities – Consolidation methods Current liabilities 390 For the purposes of consolidation, the effects of any intercomEquity and liabilities 390 pany transactions are eliminated in full. Any receivables and liabilities between the consolidated companies are offset against each other, and any unrealised gains and losses recognised in Other effects resulting from the consolidation of the company fixed assets and inventories are eliminated. Any revenues from were not material. intercompany sales are offset against the corresponding expenses. As part of the strategic orientation of the operative business of Capital consolidation is based on the purchase method of acKSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), counting pursuant to IFRS 3. This means that the amortised South Africa, the local management decided at the beginning cost of the parent’s shares in the subsidiary is eliminated against of 2018 to improve its Broad-based Black Economic Empowthe remeasured equity attributable to the parent at the date of erment (B-BBEE) rating to improve its chances of being awardacquisition. ed government contracts. The Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Act is an affirmative action programme to Any goodwill created from the application of the purchase achieve financial equality of previously disadvantaged populamethod denominated in a currency other than the functional tion groups in South Africa. currency of the KSB Group is measured at the relevant current closing rate. Goodwill is reported under intangible assets and For this reason, the shares of the previous B-BBEE partner, tested for impairment at least once a year. If an impairment is which owned 15.01 % of the partnership shares, were first identified, an impairment loss is recognised. Any excess of our bought back by KSB on 18 January 2018 through a contractuinterest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost remainally agreed option. On 20 July 2018, 30 % (plus one share) of ing after reassessment is recognised in profit or loss in the year the shares in KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd. were transferred it occurred. to the new B-BBEE partner. In the 2018 financial year, no profit share had so far been allocated to new shareholders. Any Those shares of subsidiaries’ equity not attributable to KSB SE entitlement depends on the occurrence of other conditions. & Co. KGaA are reported as non-controlling interests. More information can be found in Section V. Income Statement Disclosures – Notes No. 17 “Finance income / expense”. Currency translation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in The American company KSB AMRI , Inc., Houston, and the euros (€). Unless otherwise stated, amounts in this report are British company Smedegaard Pumps Limited, Bridgwater, were presented in thousands of euros (€ thousands) using standard liquidated in the financial year. The sale of KSB Shanghai Precommercial rounding rules. cision Casting Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China, carried out in the 2017 financial year was completed by selling the remaining 5 % Currency translation is effected on the basis of the functional of the shares. The company gear-tec GmbH, Eggebek, Germany, currency of the consolidated companies. As in the previous year, KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 125 Notes Exchange rates for the most important currencies Closing rate Average rate 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 2018 2017 US dollar 1.1450 1.1993 1.1810 1.1292 Brazilian real 4.4440 3.9729 4.3085 3.6041 Indian rupee 79.7298 76.6055 80.7332 73.4887 Chinese yuan 7.8751 7.8044 7.8081 7.6257 the functional currency is exclusively the local currency of the activities in Argentina have been reported under IAS 29 Financompany consolidated, as it operates as a financially, economcial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Countries since 1 January ically and organisationally independent entity. 2018. The effect on the monetary items was € -335 thousand. No further information was provided as the impact on the Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated Group’s net assets, financial position and result of operations at the individual companies at the rate prevailing when the was not material. transaction is initially recognised. Monetary assets and liabilities are subsequently measured at the closing rate. MeasureIII. ACCOUNTING POLICIES ment effects are recognised in the income statement. Acquisition and production costs When translating financial statements of consolidated compaIn addition to the purchase price, acquisition cost includes atnies that are not prepared in euro, assets and liabilities are tributable incidental costs (except for costs associated with the translated at the closing rate; the income statement accounts acquisition of a company) and subsequent expenditure. Purand cash flow statement items are translated at average annual chase price reductions are deducted. exchange rates (modified closing rate method). The sole exception as at 31 December 2018 was the translation of the financial As well as directly allocated costs, production costs also include statements of KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., reasonable proportions of material and production overheads Argentina where income statement items were translated at the based on standard capacity utilisation of the relevant producclosing rate. Gains and losses from the translation of items of tion facilities, if and to the extent these were incurred as part assets and liabilities compared with their translation in the preof the production process. This also includes production-relatvious year are taken directly to equity in other comprehensive ed administrative expenses. General administrative expenses, income and reported under currency translation differences. research costs and selling expenses are not capitalised. They amount to € – 117,763 thousand (previous year: € – 103,914 thousand). The effect of currency translation adBorrowing costs as defined in IAS 23 that can be directly allojustments taken directly to equity on intangible assets, propercated to the acquisition or production of qualifying assets are ty, plant and equipment, and financial assets was a loss of capitalised from 2009. As in the previous year no such borrow€ 6,885 thousand (previous year: loss of € 25,689 thousand). ing costs were incurred. Exchange rates for the most important currencies Fair value Hyperinflation Fair value is the price that independent market participants In the financial year, Argentina was rated as a hyperinflation would, under standard market conditions, receive when selling country for accounting purposes. As such, KSB is following the an asset or pay when transferring a liability at the measurement information of the International Practices Task Force (IPTF) of date. This applies irrespectively of whether the price is directly the Center of Audit Quality (CAQ). Based on this assessment, observable or has been estimated using a measurement method. 126 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes The KSB Group defined a monitoring framework concept for Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the determining fair value. This includes the monitoring of all maconsolidated balance sheet at the time when KSB becomes a terial measurements at fair value and the direct communication contractual party. When the contractual right to payments from of material facts to Management and, if necessary, to the audit financial assets expires, these are derecognised. Financial liabilcommittee. For the purposes of calculating fair value, KSB ities are derecognised at the time when the contractual obligamakes use wherever possible of estimates from market particitions are settled or cancelled or have expired. The acquisition pants or estimates derived from these. As an initial step, regular and sale of financial instruments on an arm’s length basis are checks are made to ascertain if there are current prices on active recognised at the value at the date of settlement. This concerns markets for an identical transaction. If no quoted market pricthe primary financial instruments such as trade receivables and es are available, the preference is to use the market-based apfinancial claims as well as trade payables. Only derivative finanproach (deriving the fair value from the market or transaction cial instruments are recognised at the value at the trade date. prices of comparable assets, for example multipliers) or the income-based approach (calculation of fair value as a future a) Primary financial instruments value by discounting future cash surpluses). In the KSB Group, primary financial instruments are allocated to the following measurement categories as financial assets and Based upon the input factors used in the measurement methods, financial liabilities based on the requirements of IFRS 9: fair values are assigned to different levels of the fair value hierarchy. Financial assets: Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) on active markets for Financial assets at amortised cost – Receivables, credits, cash identical assets and liabilities and cash equivalents, loans and other financial assets Level 2: Measurement parameters that are not the quoted Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (FVPL) – prices taken into account for level 1, but that are Financial instruments observable for the asset or the liability either directly as a price or indirectly derived from prices Financial liabilities: Level 3: Measurement parameters for assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data Financial liabilities at amortised cost – Loans, liabilities and other financial liabilities If input factors categorised into different levels are included in the fair value measurement, the measurement must be categoFinancial assets and liabilities are reported at fair value on inrised in its entirety in the level of the lowest level input factor itial recognition. Financial assets and liabilities that are not that is material for the entire measurement. measured at fair value are recognised after adjustment for transaction costs. Subsequent measurement is in line with the Reclassifications between different levels in the fair value hiermeasurement category allocated to the financial asset or finanarchy are recognised at the end of the reporting period during cial liability. which the change has occurred. There were no reclassifications carried out in the year under review. The fair value option is not being used at the moment. Financial assets and financial liabilities A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 127 Notes In the previous year, items were allocated to the following catder other comprehensive income and reported under “Changes egories under IAS 39: in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity. Loans and receivables (LaR) that are not quoted in an active The carrying amounts equal fair value and are determined on market the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) using or indirectly (derived from prices). Fair values may be positive the effective interest method. Liabilities that are not quoted or negative. Fair value is the amount that KSB would receive or in an active market, such as trade payables have to pay at the reporting date to settle the financial instruAvailable for sale (AfS) – Available-for-sale financial instrument. This amount is determined using the relevant exchange ments – Non-derivative financial instruments that are not rates, interest rates and counterparty credit ratings at the reallocated to any other measurement category, such as investporting date. Information is obtained solely from recognised ments in non-consolidated subsidiaries or securities external sources. b) Derivatives Currency forwards and interest rate swaps are reported under Derivatives are exclusively used for hedging purposes. Future other receivables and other current assets, and under miscellacash flows and existing recognised underlyings are hedged neous other liabilities. against foreign currency and interest rate risks (cash flow ­hedges). The hedging instruments used are exclusively currency forwards, As in the previous year, maturities of the currency derivatives currency options and interest rate derivatives entered into with used are mostly between one and two years; there are no interprime-rated banks. Currency risks are hedged primarily for est rate derivatives for the financial year in the Group. The transactions in US dollars (USD). Interest rate risks are minimaturities of the hedging instruments are matched to the perimised for long-term borrowings at floating rates of interest. od in which the forecast transactions are expected to occur. In Group guidelines govern the use of these instruments. These the year under review, almost all hedged forecast transactions transactions are also subject to continuous risk monitoring. occurred as expected. In the case of cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of the Intangible assets effective portions of the currency derivatives are recognised Intangible assets are measured at (acquisition or production) under other comprehensive income and reported under “Changcost and reduced by straight-line amortisation. Depreciaes in the fair value of financial instruments” in equity for as long tion / amortisation is reported under “Depreciation and amoras the underlying transaction is not recognised in the income tisation” in the income statement. The underlying useful lives statement. Only the spot element of the derivative hedging inof intangible assets – excluding goodwill (indefinite useful life) strument is designated, while the forward element and curren– is between two and five years. If the reasons for an impaircy basis spreads are excluded from the hedge and reported ment loss in a previous period no longer apply, it is reversed separately in the hedging cost reserve in other comprehensive (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. income. Any hedge ineffectiveness is reported through the income statement. Goodwill is tested for impairment once a year. The test relates to cash-generating units (CGU), which at KSB are generally the Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to legal entities. Occasionally a group of cash-generating units hedge against interest rate risks in liabilities are recognised unmay also serve as the basis, provided these units reflect the lowest level on which goodwill is monitored. The goodwill (and, if necessary, other assets) is reduced by the difference in value if the value in use is lower than the carrying amount of the CGU. Reversal of an impairment loss from an earlier period is not possible. In addition, a review of impairment is always 128 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes carried out when events or circumstances (“trigger events”) nology-related aspects (primarily patents, know-how and dasuggest that the value could be impaired. tabases). The residual value method, the excess earnings method and cost-oriented procedures are primarily applied to The discounted cash flow model is used to determine the recover­ determine values. able amount (value in use). The future earnings (EBIT in accordance with IFRS) applied were taken from a multi-year finanDevelopment costs are capitalised as internally generated intancial plan (covering a maximum of five years), based on the gible assets at cost where the criteria described in IAS 38 are 30 September reporting date taking into account the medium-­ met and reduced by straight-line amortisation as from the time term strategy approved by Management for the respective cash-­ of their capitalisation. Research costs are expensed as incurred. generating unit. This planning was carried out based on certain Where research and development costs cannot be reliably disassumptions which were drawn from both forecasts from extinguished within a project, no costs are capitalised. ternal sources, e.g. current German Mechanical Engineering Industry Association (VDMA) publications, and our own exProperty, plant and equipment perience-based knowledge of markets and competitors. The In accordance with IAS 16, property, plant and equipment is earnings of the last plan year were consistently extrapolated as measured at cost and reduced by straight-line depreciation a constant, considering that level to be achievable in the long over its useful life. If an asset’s recoverable amount is lower term. Growth rates were derived taking account of the rate of than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. If inflation and estimates with regard to regional and segment-spethe reasons for an impairment loss recognised in a previous cific circumstances. The Group regularly tests goodwill for imperiod no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (writepairment in the fourth quarter of every year based on the figures up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. as per 30 September of the year in question. Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment As part of the assessment, the Group conducts sensitivity analare transferred to an adjustment item on the liabilities side. yses to estimate the risk of impairment. The following assumpThis adjustment item is reversed over a defined utilisation tions are used in the process: a 15 % increase in the cost of period. As far as government grants recognised which are to capital (Sensitivity 1; previous year: 5 %), a 0.25 % reduction be held for specific periods of time are concerned, these periin the growth rate (Sensitivity 2) and a 10 % reduction in sales ods are expected to be complied with. revenue with the corresponding impact on expense items and performance indicators (Sensitivity 3). Sensitivity 3 is only apMaintenance expenses are recognised as an expense in the plied to the material goodwills of the KSB Group. period in which they are incurred, unless they lead to the expansion or material improvement of the asset concerned. When companies are acquired, purchase price allocations are made and the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired is The following useful lives are applied: determined. In addition to the assets and liabilities already recognised by the selling party, account is also taken of marketUseful lives of property, plant and equipment ing-related aspects (primarily brands or trademarks and competitive restrictions), customer-related aspects (primarily Buildings 10 to 50 years customer lists, customer relations and orders on hand), conPlant and machinery 5 to 25 years tract-related aspects (mainly particularly advantageous service, Other equipment, operating and office equipment 3 to 25 years work, purchasing and employment contracts) as well as techKSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 129 Notes Leases of the voting power. These assets are recognised at cost at the IAS 17 defines a lease as an arrangement under which a lessor time of acquisition. If the costs of acquisition exceed the share provides a lessee with the right to use an asset for an agreed of the net assets, adjustments are made on the basis of the fair period of time in exchange for a payment. A lease is classified value (pro rata hidden reserves and liabilities). The remaining as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and amount is recognised as goodwill. It forms part of the carrying rewards incident to ownership to the lessee. Otherwise, such amount of the joint venture or associate and is not amortised. transactions are to be classified as operating leases. For subsequent measurement, the carrying amounts are increased / reduced annually by the pro-rata earnings, distributed Lease payments that are payable under operating leases are dividends or other changes in equity of the joint venture or the recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. associate. If local accounting principles differ from the Group’s In the case of finance leases, the leased asset is recognised at standard accounting policies, adjustments are made accordingthe time of inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and ly. The share of earnings is reported in the consolidated income the present value of future minimum lease payments. A liabilstatement in a separate line (earnings from investments acity is recognised in the same amount for the future lease paycounted for using the equity method), and changes such as curment. The asset’s carrying amount is reduced by depreciation rency translation effects are taken directly to Group equity. If over its useful life or the shorter lease term. the losses attributable to the KSB Group correspond to the carrying amount of the company or exceed this, they are not Non-current financial assets recognised unless KSB has entered into obligations or has made Interest-bearing loans are recognised at amortised cost, wherepayments for the company. Intercompany gains and losses from as non-current financial instruments are reported in the income transactions between Group companies and investments acstatement at fair value on the balance sheet date. Financial ascounted for using the equity method are offset against the carsets such as other cash deposits are subject to an expected derying amount in profit or loss. At each reporting date, a review fault risk. The impairment loss is calculated based on the loan is carried out to determine whether there are any objective inamount on the closing or balance sheet date, the loss ratio of dications of impairment, and the amount of such impairment the loan amount and the term-weighted credit default spreads is calculated if required. If the carrying amount exceeds the as a benchmark for probability of failure. Furthermore, partial recoverable amount of an investment, it is written down to the or complete impairment is recognised as soon as there are signs recoverable amount. Any impairments or reversals of impairof an increase in default risk. No significant default risks of ments are reported in the consolidated income statement under counterparties were determined during the year. They were finance income / expense. within investment grade as a whole. Inventories Non-current other non-financial assets Pursuant to IAS 2, inventories are recognised at the lower of Investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries are measured at cost and net realisable value as at the reporting date. Cost is amortised cost. measured using the weighted average method. KSB takes account of the inventory risks resulting from slow-moving goods Investments accounted for using the equity method or impaired marketability through write-downs to the net reInvestments accounted for using the equity method are compaalisable value. This also applies if the selling price is lower than nies in which the parties exercise joint control (joint venture) production cost plus costs still to be incurred. If the reasons for or have the power to exercise significant influence over the an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, companies’ operating and financial policies (associate); this is the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). usually the case where an entity holds between 20 % and 50 % 130 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Advance payments made on inventories are also presented here Most of the default risk exposure of trade receivables is hedged. because of the correlation and expected realisation of these For more information, please refer to Section VI . Additional advances (through conversion into inventories) within the norInformation on Financial Instruments – sub-section “Financial mal business cycle. risks – Credit risk”. Contract assets and contract liabilities Trade receivables for which collateral, such as credit insurance, A contract asset shows KSB ’s claim to consideration in exhas been provided or letters of credit have been opened are change for goods or services transferred to customers, with the recognised as impaired, taking account of default risks of the right to payment being not only conditional on the passage of provider of the security and the company’s macroeconomic time but also on the satisfaction of an overall contractual perfactors. formance obligation by KSB . By contrast, receivables reflect KSB ’s unqualified claim to consideration. A contract liability If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous also represents KSB’s obligation to transfer goods or services to period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (writea customer. However, in these cases KSB has already received up). consideration from a customer that exceeds the amount of the goods or services provided. Any impairment of contract assets Other non-financial assets is recognised using the simplified impairment model. Contract The prepayments made that are presented in this item relate to assets relate to ongoing projects that have not yet been invoiced accrued expenditure prior to the reporting date that will only and are subject to similar credit risks as trade receivables for be classified as an expense after the reporting date. the same types of contract. Against this background, the expected loss rates of trade receivables are also applied to the impairCash and cash equivalents ment of contract assets. Cash (cash and sight deposits) and cash equivalents (short-term, highly liquid financial investments that are readily convertible to Trade receivables defined amounts of cash, and that are subject to only immateriTrade receivables and other current assets are subsequently recal fluctuations in terms of their value) are recognised at amorognised at amortised cost. Low-interest or non-interest-bearing tised cost. Cash and cash equivalents are subject to an expected receivables are discounted. In addition, identifiable risks are credit default risk. The impairment allowance under IFRS 9 is taken into account by charging individual impairment losses calculated based on the loan amount on the closing date, the loss using allowance accounts. Individual impairment allowances ratio of the loan amount and the term-weighted credit default are to be applied if insolvency or collection proceedings have spreads as a benchmark for probability of failure. Furthermore, been instigated, on the default or failure to meet agreed repaypartial or complete impairment allowances are recognised as ment plans and on overdue payments. Receivables are derecogsoon as there are signs of an increase in default risk. No signifinised if it is reasonably certain that payment cannot be expectcant default risks of counterparties were determined during the ed. A risk provision for expected credit losses is set aside under year. They were within investment grade as a whole. the simplified impairment model according to IFRS 9 for receivables that are not individually impaired. To measure expected Assets held for sale credit losses, trade receivables are summarised on the basis of Pursuant to IFRS 5, non-current assets or disposal groups are common credit risk features (risk classes) and number of days classified as held for sale if it is highly likely that the carrying overdue. The expected default rates stem from the historic payamount will be realised primarily by a sales transaction and not ment profiles of sales revenues over the last three financial years through continued use of that asset. It must be assumed that before the reporting date. The historic and forward-looking the sale will be completed within one year. If the Group is cominformation forms the basis for the expected probability of mitted to a sale that involves loss of control of a subsidiary, all failure, adjusted for future-oriented macroeconomic factors. assets and liabilities of that subsidiary will be classified as held KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 131 Notes for sale, provided the above conditions are met. The intangible Net interest is calculated by multiplying the discount rate with assets and property, plant and equipment of the held-for-sale the net liability (pension obligation minus plan assets) or the assets are no longer amortised / depreciated, but instead are recnet asset value that results if the plan assets exceed the pension ognised at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less obligation. costs to sell. The defined benefit costs include the service cost, which is inDeferred taxes cluded in staff costs under pension costs, and the net interest Deferred taxes are accounted for in accordance with IAS 12 using income or expense on the net liability or net asset value, which the balance sheet liability method on the basis of the enacted or is recognised in finance income / expense under interest and simsubstantively enacted local tax rates. This means that deferred tax ilar expenses or under interest and similar income. assets and liabilities generally arise when the tax base of assets and liabilities differs from their carrying amount in the IFRS No provisions are set aside for defined contribution pension financial statements, and this leads to future tax expense or inplans. In these cases, the premium payments are recognised come. Deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards are recogdirectly in the income statement as pension costs in the staff nised in those cases where it is more likely than not that there will costs. Other than an obligation to pay premiums, KSB has no be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against further obligations. Consequently, the insurance risk remains which these tax loss carryforwards can be utilised. Deferred taxes with the insured parties. are also recognised for consolidation adjustments. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are always b) Other provisions offset where they relate to the same tax authority. Changes to Provisions are recognised if a past event results in a present deferred taxes in the consolidated balance sheet generally result legal or constructive external obligation that the company has in deferred tax expense or income. If, however, a direct entry is no realistic alternative to settling, where settlement of this obmade in other comprehensive income in equity, the change in ligation is expected to result in an outflow of resources emboddeferred taxes is also taken directly to equity. ying economic benefits, and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. The amount of the provision corresponds Provisions to the best estimate of the settlement amount of the current a) Provisions for pensions and similar obligations obligation on the reporting date. Any more or less secure reProvisions for pensions and similar obligations pursuant to course or reimbursement claims are recognised as separate asIAS 19 are calculated on the basis of actuarial reports. They are sets. based on defined benefit pension plans. They are measured using the projected unit credit method. If customer contracts are expected to be loss-making, a gross statement is drawn up of contract assets and provisions for the Actuarial gains and losses are taken directly to other compreexpected losses. hensive income and reported in equity under “Remeasurement of defined benefit plans”. The actuarial demographic assumpProvisions for restructurings are recognised only if the criteria tions and the setting of the discount rate (based on senior, set out in IAS 37 are met. fixed-income corporate bonds) and other measurement parameters (for example income and pension trends) are based on best estimates. 132 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Non-current provisions are discounted if the effects are mategenerates most of its sales revenue in the Pumps segment. The rial. breadth of these orders ranges from the supply of an individual pump to customised pump sets, including drive and control In the 2018 financial year, accounting principles were amended systems. These goods and services are sold to engineering conso that some items previously allocated to provisions are now tractors, OEMs and end users or, in some cases, distributed via classified as liabilities. To increase transparency in relation to dealers. Some customer contracts contain several service comthe uncertainties associated with individual liability items, liaponents, such as manufacture of a pump and the related instalbilities for other staff costs previously shown in particular unlation and commissioning. These installation services cover der provisions that can be classified as certain in terms of maintegration services and can only be carried out by specifically turity and amount, as well as accruals and deferrals for trained and qualified staff. They are not accounted for as indeoutstanding invoices are now reported under liabilities. pendent performance obligations and the transaction price is not split. In accordance with IAS 8, this is a voluntary change requiring retrospective application. The prior-year figures were restated Sales revenue is recognised in the amount of the consideration accordingly. More information on the changes are presented in expected by KSB based on the transfer of goods or provision of Section IV. Balance Sheet Disclosures Notes No. 10 “Proviservices to the customer. Depending on the type of performance sions” and 11 “Liabilities”. and contractual structure, sales revenue is recognised either over time or at a point in time in line with satisfaction of the Contingent liabilities performance obligation by KSB. Contingent liabilities, which are not recognised, are potential obligations that arise from past events and whose existence If a performance obligation meets the criteria for recognising will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence sales revenue over time under IFRS 15 and the progress towards of uncertain future events. Contingent liabilities may also be completion and expected consideration can be reliably estimatpresent obligations that arise from past events where it is posed, the sales revenue, as with the previous procedure under sible but not probable that there will be an outflow of resourcIAS 11 (percentage-of-completion method) / IAS 18, is recoges embodying economic benefits. nised based on progress towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligation. KSB specifically recognises sales reveContingent liabilities correspond to the extent of liability at nue over time for contracts covering the production of customthe reporting date. ised pumps and valves as well as contracts for the provision of services. By contrast, standard products in the pumps and Revenue from contracts with customers valves areas are typically subject to sales revenue recognition The rules of IFRS 15 were applied by KSB for the first time in at a point in time. KSB applies the input-oriented method to the year under review. The new IFRS 15 standard summarises determine progress that is measured by the factors used. The in a new standard the numerous previous rules and interpretapercentage of completion of contracts is determined on the bations on sales revenue recognition. Standardised basic princisis of the proportion that contract costs incurred for work perples for all sectors and categories were also determined by the formed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total new standard. The recognition of sales revenue from customer contract costs at the reporting date and thus follows the costcontracts is essentially based on a five-step model framework. to-cost method. Contract revenue consists of all contractually agreed revenues, as well as additional claims and incentive payKSB generates sales revenue from the sale of goods and goods ments that are likely to result in revenue and are capable of purchased and held for resale from the production, sale and being reliably measured. Contract revenue may vary, for intrade of machinery, systems and other industrial products, parstance because of cost escalation clauses, renegotiations or penticularly pumps and valves and related support services. KSB alties. Sales revenue is accounted for based on the amount fixed KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 133 Notes in the contract less expected consideration. Variable considerKSB agrees payment terms and conditions for customer conations (cost escalation clauses, penalties, bonuses) are estimattracts that allow for payment in a reasonable period after the ed at the most likely expected value. Restrictions on estimate invoice has been issued. Extended payment terms are not usuoptions are taken into account. Estimates on costs and contract ally granted to customers. There are usually no long-term fiprogress are corrected if circumstances change. Any resultant nancing components. increases or reductions in the estimated proceeds or costs are reflected in the profit and loss account for the period in which In individual cases and in compliance with the statutory rethe circumstances giving rise to the correction occurred. If the quirements of IFRS 15, a customer may ask to obtain control earnings from a service or production order with sales revenue of a product prior to delivery of the goods (bill-and-hold arrecognition over time cannot be reliably estimated, revenue will rangements). This can result in earlier sales revenue recognition. only be recognised in the amount of the contract costs incurred that are likely to be covered and the contract costs recognised For regular fixed-price contracts, the customer pays a fixed as an expense for the period in which they are incurred. amount using a payment plan. Depending on the ratio of the customer payments received to the claim to consideration acSales revenue is recognised at a point in time for performance quired by KSB based on the transfer of goods and services to obligations that do not meet the criteria for recognising sales the customer, there is an advance or subsequent type of payrevenue over time under IFRS 15. At KSB, this typically applies ment on the reporting date for the respective customer contract. in particular to standard products without any significant cusContract assets are reported reduced by advances received, if tomer-specific characteristic in the Pumps and Valves segments. the amount of the goods and services provided by KSB exceed The point in time at which KSB satisfies its performance oblithe payment amount. Payments received from the customer that gations from contracts with customers subject to sales revenue exceed the amount of the goods and services provided by KSB recognition at a point in time is based on the agreed supply for the respective customer contract result in the reporting of a terms and conditions or acceptance by the customers. At the contract liability. time of revenue recognition, receipt of the consideration must be probable and the amount of sales revenue must be reliably Interest income and expenses are recognised in the period in measurable. A reliable estimation of the associated costs and which they occur. Dividend income from investments is collectpotential return of the goods must also be possible. Sales reveed when the legal entitlement to payment is created. Operating nue from delivery is as a rule recognised in line with the agreed expenses are recognised when they are incurred or when the INCOTERMS. For standard products, FCA or EXW terms and services are utilised. Income tax is calculated in accordance conditions apply in most cases. For some international deliverwith the statutory tax rules in the countries in which the Group ies, the contractual risk transfer takes place when the goods are operates. Deferred taxes are accounted for on the basis of the loaded onto a cargo ship in the port or delivered to the customenacted or substantively enacted income tax rates. er in the destination country. In these cases, sales revenue is also recognised on the basis of the contractually agreed INCOEstimates and assumptions TERMS . For certain deliveries and services, a declaration of The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordacceptance by the customer is required for the recognition of ance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU requires management sales revenue. For customer contracts based on sales revenue to make estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting recognised at a point in time, sales reductions also reduce sales policies to be applied. When implementing such accounting polrevenue. icies, estimates and assumptions affect the assets, liabilities, income and expenses recognised in the consolidated financial 134 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes statements, and their presentation. These estimates and assumpthe variable considerations based on experience), contract risks tions are based on past experience and a variety of other factors as well as other relevant factors. These estimates are reviewed deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Actual amounts regularly by those with operative responsibility and adjusted may differ from these estimates and assumptions. The estimates where necessary. and assumptions made are constantly reviewed. If more recent information and additional knowledge are available, recognised Provisions for employee benefits, especially pensions and similar amounts are adjusted to reflect the new circumstances. Any obligations, are determined according to actuarial principles changes in estimates and assumptions that result in material which are based on statistical and other factors so as to anticidifferences are explained separately. pate future events. Material factors are the reported market discount rates and life expectancy. The actuarial assumptions Impairment tests for goodwill, which are conducted at least made may differ from actual developments as a result of changonce per year, require an estimate of the recoverable amounts ing market and economic conditions, and this can have materifor each cash-generating unit (CGU). These correspond to the al effects on the amount of provisions and thus on the compahigher amount from the fair value less costs to sell and value in ny’s overall net assets, financial position and results of use. The earnings forecast on the basis of these estimates are operations. affected by various factors, which may include exchange rate fluctuations, progress in Group integration or the expectations The pension plans concluded before 2009 solely provided for for the economic development of these units. Although Managethe payment of accumulated amounts in the form of a monthly ment believes that the assumptions used to calculate the recovpension for life upon retirement. In an extension to the Group erable amount are appropriate, any unforeseen changes in these works agreement, a lump-sum option was added to the compaassumptions could lead to an impairment loss. ny pension scheme in the 2018 financial year. Under this, every employee is entitled to apply at any time during the ongoing Estimates and assumptions must also be made to review the employment contract for payment in annual instalments, as a value of assets. For each asset it must be verified to what extent single payment or as a pension for life. KSB has estimated how there are indications of an impairment. When determining the the specific workforce is likely to decide on exercising the lumprecoverable amount of property, plant and equipment, the estisum option and has taken this into account for the measurement mation of the relevant useful life is subject to uncertainty. of pension provisions. All other measurement parameters are unchanged year on year. Average fluctuation is assumed. Contract assets are subject to the impairment rules of IFRS 9. Any impairment of contract assets is recognised using the simOther provisions are reported based on the best possible estiplified impairment model. Contract assets relate to ongoing mate of the probability of future outflows. The later, actual outprojects that have not yet been invoiced and are subject to simflow can, however, differ from the estimate as a result of changed ilar credit risks as trade receivables for the same types of coneconomic, political or legal conditions. This will be reflected in tract. Against this background, the expected loss rates of trade additional expenses or income from reversals. receivables are also applied to the impairment of contract assets. The global scope of activities must be taken into account in If performance obligations meet the relevant criteria of IFRS 15, relation to taxes on income. Based on operative activities in KSB recognises revenue from customer contracts over time in numerous countries with varying tax laws and administrative line with progress towards completion. The latter is determined interpretation, differentiated assessment is required for deteraccording to the percentage of completion. This requires estimining tax liabilities. Uncertainty may arise due to different mates regarding the total contract costs and revenue (including interpretations by taxable entities on the one hand and local KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 135 Notes finance authorities on the other. Uncertain tax assets and liabilany retrospective restatement of comparative data. The reclasities are recognised if their probability of occurrence exceeds sifications and restatements resulting from the amended ac50 %. For the reporting, the best estimate is based on the excounting principles are therefore not retrospective to 31 Depected tax payment. Although KSB believes it has made a reacember 2017, but are only reported in the opening balance sonable estimate regarding any tax uncertainties, it is possible sheet as at 1 January 2018. that the actual tax obligation will differ from the original estimate. With regard to future tax benefits, KSB assesses their reThe following table shows the restatements in the opening balalisability as of every reporting date. For this reason, deferred ance sheet per individual item in the balance sheet. Items not tax assets are only recognised if sufficient taxable income is subject to any change as at 1 January 2018 are not included in available in future. In assessing this future taxable income withthe table. in the planning horizon it must be taken into account that exRestatements in the opening balance sheet pected future business developments are subject to uncertainties and are in some cases beyond the control of company manageIFRS 9 Financial Instruments contains new rules on the classiment (for example changes to applicable tax legislation). If KSB fication and measurement of financial instruments, changes in comes to the conclusion that previously reported deferred tax the reporting and measurement of impairment of certain finanassets cannot be realised because of changed assumptions, then cial assets and revised rules on hedge accounting. the assets will be written down by the appropriate amount. IFRS 9 contains three categories for measuring financial assets Maturities and liabilities: at amortised cost, at fair value through profit or Maturities of up to one year are classified as current. loss and at fair value directly in equity. The categories of IAS 39 have been replaced in full. The rules for classification and measAssets that can only be realised after more than twelve months, urement of financial instruments under IFRS 9 are based on the as well as liabilities that only become due after more than following two criteria: Firstly on the Group’s business model twelve months, are also classified as current if they are attribfor managing the financial assets (hold, hold and sell and held utable to the operating cycle defined in IAS 1. An operating for sale), and secondly on the nature of the cash flows. If the cycle of more than 12 months typically applies to made-to-orcash flows from the financial instrument derive solely from inder production (construction contracts). terest and redemption payments, classification is made depending on the business model. If the asset is only held to collect Assets and liabilities not classified as current are non-current. contractual cash flows, then measurement is at amortised cost. Nearly all the Group’s assets meet these criteria and are thereImpact of the introduction of the new accounting fore measured at amortised cost, with the exception of financial ­standards instruments and currency forwards. The reclassifications folAs a result of the application of the new rules contained in lowing this approach from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 are presented in IFRS9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Conthe reconciliation table. tracts with Customers, KSB changed its accounting policies as  econciliation of measurement categories of financial assets from R from 1 January 2018. Both IFRS 9 (apart from the recognition IAS 39 to IFRS 9 of hedges) and IFRS 15 were applied for the first time without 136 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Restatements in the opening balance sheet Opening Restatement Restatement balance sheet Balance sheet (extract) / € thousands 31 Dec. 2017* under IFRS 9 under IFRS 15 1 Jan. 2018 Assets Non-current assets Financial assets 6,132 – 2,985 – 3,147 Other non-financial assets – 2,985 – 2,985 Current assets Inventories 461,877 – 42,210 504,087 Contract assets – – 79 69,724 69,645 Trade receivables from third parties 480,928 – 1,486 – 479,442 Receivables recognised by PoC, net 100,042 – – 100,042 – Deferred tax assets 91,736 562 1,546 93,844 Equity and liabilities Equity 885,398 – 1,003 – 8,222 876,173 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 14,703 – – 1,311 13,392 Current liabilities Other provisions 68,806* – 4,883 73,689 Contract liabilities – – 165,192 165,192 Other financial liabilities 81,467 – – 49,401 32,066 Other non-financial liabilities 263,600* – – 97,703 165,897 * Restated compared with presentation in the 2017 annual report. Changes to the financial liabilities measured at fair value impairment needs to be reported at the time of initial recognithrough profit and loss were fully recognised in the income tion based on a valid future estimation. statement under IFRS 39, while IFRS 9 requires a separate treatment. If changes are a result of credit risk developments, KSB applies the expected credit loss model to financial assets then they are to be recognised in other comprehensive income. under IFRS 9. This applies to the value of the “Trade receivaOther changes are recognised in the income statement. Finanbles” and “Contract assets” balance sheet items. cial liabilities are as a rule measured at amortised cost in the Group. Under IFRS 9, KSB applies the simplified approach to determine default risk for trade receivables and contract assets. As of According to the new rules regarding impairment, the incurred 1 January 2018, the impairment allowance of trade receivables loss model (retrospective) applied under IAS 39 is to be rewas increased by € 1,486 thousand directly in equity. Furtherplaced by the expected credit loss model (prospective). The more, impairment of contract assets of € 79 thousand was takstandard stipulates a general three-stage model (impairment en directly to equity on a one-time-only basis. The change in model) and a simplified method for determining the anticipated risk provision for expected credit losses in the financial year is impairment. For all financial instruments that fall within the presented in the comments on trade receivables and contract scope of the new impairment model, the calculated prospective assets in Section IV. Balance Sheet Disclosures. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 137 Notes Reconciliation of measurement categories of financial assets from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 31 Dec. 2017 Restatements under IFRS 9 1 Jan. 2018 Measurement ReMeasurement category Carrying categori­ Measurement Carrying category € thousands ( IAS 39) amount sation effect amount 1 (IFRS 9) Non-current assets Other investments n/a 2,985 – 2,985 – – n/a Non-current financial instruments AfS 657 – – 657 FVPL Loans LaR 2,490 – – 2,490 Amortised cost Current assets Trade receivables from third parties LaR 480,928 – – 1,486 479,442 Amortised cost Trade receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures LaR 32,341 – – 32,341 Amortised cost Receivables from loans to other investments, associates and joint ventures LaR 13,344 – – 13,344 Amortised cost Receivables recognised by PoC, net LaR 100,042 – 100,042 – – n/a Currency forwards used as hedges n/a 5,074 – – 5,074 n/a Other receivables and other current assets LaR 98,552 – – 98,522 Amortised cost Cash and cash equivalents LaR 289,535 – – 289,535 Amortised cost 1 Carrying amount except for the “Receivables recognised by PoC, net” item excluding restatements under IFRS 15. Loans, cash and cash equivalents as well as other financial ashedge in the case of derivative instruments designated in foreign sets are also subject to the new impairment provisions of currency hedges and reported separately directly in equity in IFRS 9. However, the analysed impairment expense was not the hedging cost reserve under other comprehensive income. material either on an individual or collective basis. The designated spot element is reported in the hedging reserve In addition, IFRS 9 covers hedge accounting. As such, the risk under other comprehensive income. This change was applied management of an entrepreneur goes hand in hand with hedge from 1 January 2018 to all designated foreign currency derivaccounting. The hedges in place as at 31 December 2017 essenatives and led to a reclassification from the hedge reserve to the tially meet the conditions of IFRS 9 in respect of hedge accounthedging cost reserve of € -770 thousand as of 1 January 2018 ing and are therefore being continued in principle subject to an (€ 831 thousand as of 1 January 2017). The comparative figures amended designation. With the change to IFRS 9, the forward were restated for reporting purposes. elements and currency basis spreads are excluded from the 138 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes The most important changes resulting from IFRS 15 Revenue Contract liabilities: Advances received from customers that exfrom Contracts with Customers are described below. ceed the amount of goods or services previously transferred by KSB under a customer contract represent contract liabilities Change from sales revenue recognition over time under IFRS 15. to recognition at a point in time Individual KSB construction contracts that were presented in Contract liabilities are recognised as a separate balance sheet line with project progress under the percentage-of-completion item. Under the previous accounting policies, items correspondmethod until the end of the 2017 financial year do not meet the ing to contract liabilities were reported as “Advances received criteria for sales revenue recognition over time under IFRS 15. from customers (PoC), net” under “Other financial liabilities” This essentially relates to cases where KSB does not have, at in the balance sheet for customer contracts presented using the any time of the contractual term, an enforceable right to compercentage-of-completion method. For customer contracts not pensation for goods or services provided to the customer or presented according to the percentage-of-completion method, where an asset is produced that could be put to an alternative the relevant item “Advances received from customers” was preuse by KSB beyond the customer contract in force. For the viously shown under “Other non-financial liabilities” in the construction contracts in question, this results in the recognibalance sheet. tion of sales revenue at a point in time being postponed until control is transferred to the customer. In the balance sheet, these Provisions for onerous customer contracts: As a result of the cases result in an increase in inventories against a fall in trade first-time application of IFRS 15, a gross statement of contract receivables and PoC. The change in the method of recognising assets must be prepared for customer contracts that are expectrevenue for individual customer contracts resulted in a restateed to make a loss as well as provisions for the expected losses ment of revenue reserves directly in equity as part of the tranunder IAS 37 under “Other provisions” in the balance sheet. sition to IFRS 15 as from 1 January 2018. Expected losses from customer contracts were netted with receivables recognised by PoC before the introduction of IFRS 15. Changes in presentation in the balance sheet Contract assets: If KSB acquires a right to payment from the The following tables show the restated amounts in the balance supply of goods or services under a contract with a customer sheet and statement of comprehensive income arising from the and this right exceeds payments already made by or due from application of IFRS 15 as at 31 December 2018 compared with the customer and is conditional not only on the passage of time the rules under IAS 11 and IAS 18 that applied before the but also on the satisfaction of an overall contractual perforchange. mance obligation by KSB, this must be presented as contract Balance sheet assets under IFRS 15. Statement of comprehensive income Contract assets at KSB derive from typical customer contracts Please refer to the comments above in this section for explafor production and service if they meet the criteria of IFRS 15 nation of the material reconciliation effects between recognifor sales revenue recognition over time. When KSB ’s overall tion under IFRS 15 and recognition under IAS 11 / IAS 18 as at contractual performance obligation ends and there is an uncon31 December 2018. ditional right to payment that depends only on the passage of time, contract assets are reclassified as trade receivables. Contract assets are recognised in the balance sheet under “Contract assets”. Under the previous accounting policies, items corresponding to contract assets were reported as “Receivables recognised by PoC, net” under “Trade receivables and PoC” in the balance sheet. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 139 Notes Balance sheet 31 Dec. 2018 (amounts without 31 Dec. 2018 Reconciliation to application of € thousands (as reported) IAS 11 and IAS 18 IFRS 15) Non-current assets Intangible assets 91,089 – 91,089 Property, plant and equipment 496,659 – 496,659 Non-current financial assets 1,773 – 1,773 Other non-financial assets 2,914 – 2,914 Investments accounted for using the equity method 23,855 – 23,855 Deferred tax assets 80,391 -2,851 77,540 Current assets Inventories 544,430 – 32,192 512,238 Contract assets 74,499 – 74,499 – Trade receivables (and PoC) 518,116 143,458 661,574 Other financial assets 103,388 – 103,388 Other non-financial assets 49,504 – 49,504 Cash and cash equivalents 255,545 – 255,545 Total assets 2,242,163 33,916 2,276,079 Equity Subscribed capital 44,772 – 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 – 66,663 Revenue reserves 577,756 6,854 584,610 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB SE & Co. KGaA 689,191 6,854 696,045 Non-controlling interests 167,600 245 167,845 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 10,252 2,077 12,329 Provisions for employee benefits 578,640 – 578,640 Other provisions 1,377 – 1,377 Financial liabilities 30,099 – 30,099 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 9,287 – 9,287 Other provisions 83,557 – 10,292 73,265 Financial liabilities 48,777 – 48,777 Contract liabilities 157,389 – 157,389 – Trade payables 270,212 – 270,212 Other financial liabilities 32,767 – 32,767 Other non-financial liabilities 154,689 192,421 347,110 Income tax liabilities 8,326 – 8,326 Total equity and liabilities 2,242,163 33,916 2,276,079 140 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Statement of comprehensive income 31 Dec. 2018 (amounts without 31 Dec. 2018 Reconciliation to application of € thousands (as reported) IAS 11 and IAS 18 IFRS 15) Sales revenue 2,245,948 11,457 2,257,405 Changes in inventories 22,554 – 6,042 16,512 Work performed and capitalised 7,332 – 7,332 Total output of operations 2,275,834 5,415 2,281,249 Other income 33,050 – 33,050 Cost of materials – 934,545 – – 934,545 Staff costs – 765,462 – – 765,462 Depreciation and amortisation – 104,491 – – 104,491 Other expenses – 416,869 – – 416,869 Other taxes – 12,815 – – 12,815 Finance income 4,893 – 4,893 Finance expense – 16,544 – – 16,544 Income from / expense to investments accounted for using the equity method 2,510 – 2,510 Earnings before income tax 65,561 5,415 70,976 Taxes on income – 41,644 – 1,186 – 42,830 Earnings after income tax 23,917 4,229 28,146 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 6.26 1.10 7.36 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 6.64 1.17 7.81 Earnings after income tax 23,917 4,229 28,147 Remeasurement of defined benefit plans – 10,736 – – 10,736 Taxes on income 3,341 – 3,341 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods – 7,395 – – 7,395 Currency translation differences – 13,276 – – 13,276 Changes in the fair value of financial instruments – 5,571 – – 5,571 Taxes on income 1,665 – 1,665 Changes in the fair value of financial instruments Hedging cost reserve – 53 – – 53 Taxes on income 18 – 18 Expense and income recognised directly in equity and reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods – 17,217 – – 17,217 Other comprehensive income – 24,612 – – 24,612 Comprehensive income – 695 4,229 1,304 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 141 Notes IV. BALANCE SHEET DISCLOSURES 1 Intangible assets Statement of changes in intangible assets Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in Internally generated Intangible assets € thousands such rights and assets Goodwill intangible assets Advance payments Total Historical cost 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 71,883 71,167 103,210 104,189 – – 25,311 15,781 200,404 191,137 Changes in consolidated Group 1,241 28 2,254 – – – – – 3,495 28 Currency translation adjustments – 552 – 2,014 – 167 – 813 – – – – – 719 – 2,827 Other 2,093 –6 274 – – – – 72 – 2,295 –6 Additions 2,596 2,767 – – 9,187 – 1,228 9,692 13,011 12,459 Disposals – 5,780 – 285 – – 166 – – – 1,000 – – 6,780 – 451 Reclassifications 3,300 226 – – 21,558 – – 24,694 – 162 164 64 Balance at 31 December 74,781 71,883 105,571 103,210 30,745 – 773 25,311 211,870 200,404 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 59,680 57,294 32,670 27,247 – – – – 92,350 84,541 Currency translation adjustments – 481 – 1,441 395 – 132 – – – – – 86 – 1,573 Other 301 –6 – 68 –1 – – – – 233 –7 Additions 4,513 4,114 28,194 5,556 563 – – – 33,270 9,670 Disposals – 5,002 – 281 – – – – – – – 5,002 – 281 Reclassifications 16 – – – – – – – 16 – Balance at 31 December 59,027 59,680 61,191 32,670 563 – – – 120,781 92,350 Carrying amount at 31 December 15,754 12,203 44,380 70,540 30,182 – 773 25,311 91,089 108,054 The additions to intangible assets amounting to € 13.0 milKSB reported internally generated intangible assets of lion (previous year: € 12.5 million) primarily concerned, as € 30,182 thousand, which largely related to projects for the in the previous year, advance payments and own work capiKSBase sales software in development. talised for a new software to be deployed in Sales. KSBase is a new selection software for the standard pump The “Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and range. KSBase derives from acquired licences that have yet assets, as well as licences in such rights and assets” item innot been implemented as functional, as the requirements to cludes € 10.6 million (previous year: € 8.3 million) of softbe met by the software changed considerably in the past few ware including software licences valid for a limited period. As years. These changes also mean a much higher share of proin the previous year, there are no restrictions on ownership or gramming by internal KSB staff, or that external resources use. 142 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes must be bought in through service contracts. Both meant that try-specific tax rates and country risk premiums are taken the risk of successfully introducing the software and therefore into account individually for each cash-generating unit the production risk has been transferred to KSB. As a result, (CGU). Growth rates of 0.00 % and 1.25 % (previous year: the assets of the KSBase project were reclassified into inter0.75 % to 1.25 %) were used in the financial year. The regular nally generated intangible assets in the 2018 financial year. review of the peer group did not generate any new findings in relation to the business models of comparative companies. In the reporting year, advance payments for intangible assets The peer group for examining the weighted capital cost factor of € 1,000 thousand were derecognised (previous year: none). therefore remains the same as in the previous year. These relate to software that is no longer used due to changed requirements. Furthermore, as in the previous year, no impairDiscount rates ment losses on other intangible assets were recognised in the reporting year. Before taxes in % (value in use) 30 Sept. 2018 30 Sept. 2017 Companies in Germany 7.9 – 8.4 8.7 – 8.8 As in the previous year, no product-related development costs Companies in the Netherlands 7.7 8.3 were capitalised in the financial year because not all of the Companies in the USA 7.8 9.7 comprehensive recognition criteria defined in IAS 38 were Companies in South Africa 11.4 12.2 met. Companies in South Korea 8.2 8.7 Companies in the rest of Europe 7.5 – 11.1 8.2 – 13.8 The carrying amounts of the cash-generating units in connection with the impairment testing of goodwill do not contain any items relating to taxes or financing activities. Goodwill To determine the discount factor, the weighted average cost Name of CGU / € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 of capital (WACC) method is applied in conjunction with the DP industries B.V., the Netherlands 18,285 18,285 capital asset pricing model (CAPM), taking into account a Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Germany 3,150 3,150 peer group. Under this method, first the cost of equity is deUder Elektromechanik GmbH, Germany 2,980 2,980 termined using CAPM and the borrowing costs are defined, KSB Finland Oy, Finland 2,603 2,603 and then the individual capital components are weighted in KSB Dubric, Inc. ( USA ) 2,405 – accordance with the capital structure taking account of the KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., South Africa 1,808 2,010 peer group. The peer group information includes aspects like KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea 758 21,665 beta factors, capital structure data and borrowing costs. The Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle peer group includes companies that are similar to the KSB (ST II ), France – 5,689 Group in terms of industry, size and activity. To account for KSB Service Energie S.A.S. U., France – 1,412 changes in market parameters, the composition of the peer 31,989 57,794 group is reviewed at regular intervals and adjusted if necesOther 17 (previous year: 16) companies 12,391 12,746 sary (e.g. changes in the business model of either the compaTotal 44,380 70,540 ny, the cash-generating unit or the comparable company being looked at). The reference date for carrying out the goodwill impairment The interest rate for risk-free 30-year Bunds was used as a test is 30 September every year. When assessing the indications base rate. This rate was 1.0 % in the year under review (prefor impairment of assets, it was found that the carrying amount vious year: 1.25 %). The market risk premium was set at of net assets at KSB exceeds market capitalisation. On that 5.75 %, which was unchanged on the previous year, with a basis, the goodwill impairment test was repeated as at the rebeta factor of 0.90 (previous year: 0.94). In addition, counporting date 31 December 2018. Impairment was recalculated KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 143 Notes Impairment loss on goodwill (31 December 2018) Recoverable amount in Impairment loss Name of CGU Segment Discount factor € thousands in € thousands Total 31 Dec. 2018 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle (ST II ) / KSB SERVICE COTUMER , France Service 8.8 % 1,433 6,188 KSB Service Energie S.A.S. U., France Service 8.7 % 4,538 1,412 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea Valves 8.7 % 16,371 20,599 Total 31 Dec. 2017 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., South Korea Valves 7.3 % 41,662 5,556 using the capital cost factor as at 31 December 2018; resulting try. Performance is heavily dependent on this sector which increased impairment losses were taken into account. turned out weaker than forecast. Business is expected to recover I mpairment loss on goodwill in the short term, and then remain stable over the medium term. In KSB’s view, the impairment on two French cash-generating The impairment loss will be reported in the income statement units stems from dependence on one individual major cus­tomer. under “Depreciation and amortisation”. The units are bound to its procurement policy and economic D etailed information on key goodwill items situation. The reduction in the proportion of nuclear energy used in the electricity mix also exacerbates the situation. For the annual impairment test, the assumptions presented in the “Basic assumptions for goodwill considered material” table The business performance of the cash-generating unit in South were made regarding the development of order intake, sales Korea, KSB Seil Co., Ltd., remained generally limited. In KSB’s revenue and operating earnings for goodwill deemed to be maestimation, this is attributable to its considerable reliance on terial. the economic development of the long-cycle shipbuilding indusB asic assumptions for goodwill considered material Detailed information on key goodwill items (30 September 2018) Carrying amount of Percentage Method for assessing goodwill of total Growth Underlying assumptions, the value of the Name of CGU Method (€ million) goodwill Discount rate rate corporate planning ­u nderlying assumption KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Value in use 21.4 (before 48 % 8.2 % 0.00 % Stagnating shipbuilding Consideration of macro-­ South Korea depreciation / before market over the medium economic key data and amortisation) tax term internal estimates of the Little change in relevant purchasing and exchange rates sales departments DP industries B.V., Value in use 18.3 41 % 7.7 % 1.25 % Low to significant Consideration of macro-­ the Netherlands before ­market growth rates economic key data and tax internal estimates of the relevant purchasing and sales departments 144 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Basic assumptions for goodwill considered material Name of CGU Order intake Sales revenue EBIT Planning time horizon KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Stagnating growth Stagnating growth Stagnating growth over the 5 years South Korea over the medium term over the medium term medium term, as a result of sales revenue and cost planning DP industries B.V., Constant growth, Constant growth, Moderate growth, on average, 5 years the Netherlands on average on average as a result of sales revenue and cost planning As well as impairment testing, sensitivity analyses were conductThere would have been no additional impairment requirement ed for each cash-generating unit. The table shows the total for other cash-generating entities, even after taking sensitivities amount of impairment that would have arisen if the respective into account. sensitivity had been applied. S ensitivities S ensitivities Name of CGU / € thousands Sensitivity 1 Sensitivity 2 Sensitivity 3 31 Dec. 2018 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle ( ST II ) / KSB SERVICE COTUMER , France 6,676 6,257 n/a KSB Service Energie, France 2,040 1,466 n/a KSB Seil, Busan, South Korea 23,290 21,066 31,714 KSB Italia S.p.A., Italy 2,737 0 n/a SPI Energie, France 332 0 n/a Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Germany 132 0 n/a KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Germany 135 0 n/a 31 Dec. 2017 KSB Seil, Busan, South Korea 7,507 6,642 7,964 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 145 Notes 2 Property, plant and equipment Statement of changes in property, plant and equipment Other equipment, Advance payments Plant and operating and office and assets under Property, plant € thousands Land and buildings machinery equipment construction and equipment Historical cost 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 381,587 372,075 593,154 583,604 225,103 215,203 24,071 31,049 1,223,915 1,201,931 Changes in consolidated Group 1,282 149 25 605 109 132 – – 1,416 886 Currency translation adjustments – 1,991 – 13,032 – 822 – 20,397 – 3,481 – 7,892 – 1,092 – 1,813 – 7,386 – 43,134 Other 25,324 – 68 – 22,901 – 2,073 225 2,586 –4 – 2,644 445 Additions 8,660 18,226 21,472 29,041 20,315 21,762 16,146 20,402 66,593 89,431 Disposals – 641 – 3,989 – 9,168 – 10,596 – 12,894 – 10,972 – 20 – 23 – 22,723 – 25,580 Reclassifications 2,610 8,226 12,426 12,970 – 1,224 4,284 – 13,976 – 25,544 – 164 – 64 Balance at 31 December 416,831 381,587 594,186 593,154 228,153 225,103 25,125 24,071 1,264,295 1,223,915 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Balance at 1 January 156,455 153,019 402,104 394,668 159,142 152,638 – – 717,701 700,325 Currency translation adjustments 315 – 3,962 1,013 – 11,936 – 2,152 – 5,449 – – – 824 – 21,347 Other 18,540 – 603 – 17,846 – 2,161 277 2,641 – – 971 – 123 Additions 13,712 10,466 38,417 31,910 19,092 18,547 – – 71,221 60,923 Disposals – 285 – 2,132 – 8,685 – 9,581 – 12,447 – 10,364 – – – 21,417 – 22,077 Reclassifications 169 – 333 1,442 – 796 – 1,627 1,129 – – – 16 – Balance at 31 December 188,906 156,455 416,445 402,104 162,285 159,142 – – 767,636 717,701 Carrying amount at 31 December 227,925 225,132 177,741 191,050 65,868 65,961 25,125 24,071 496,659 506,214 Assets resulting from finance leases are recognised as fixed asous year: € 12,319 thousand) and book losses of € 661 thousets in accordance with IAS 17, and corresponding financial sand (previous year: € 3,169 thousand). The book gains and liabilities are recognised. The carrying amount of these capitallosses are reported in the income statement under other income ised assets amounts to € 1,464 thousand (previous year: € 1,382 and other expenses. thousand), of which € 648 thousand (previous year: € 429 thousand) relate to land and buildings and € 816 thousand In the year under review, impairment losses of € 10,580 thou(previous year: € 940 thousand) to other equipment, operating sand (previous year: none) were recognised on property, plant and office equipment. There were no finance leases for plant and equipment, as no more long-term cash flows were expected and machinery in the year under review (previous year: € 13 from these assets for two valve type series. This impairment is thousand). reported in the income statement under depreciation and amortisation. Depreciation / amortisation relates to the Valves segDisposals of intangible assets and items of property, plant and ment. Impairment was determined using the discounted cash equipment resulted in book gains of € 1,618 thousand (previflow model and a discount rate of 7.1 %. 146 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes 3 Non-current financial assets 5 Investments accounted for using the equity method € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 The following table lists the KSB Group’s material joint venLoans 1,113 2,490 tures. “Seat” refers to the country in which the main activity is Financial instruments 660 657 performed. All joint ventures and associates are accounted for Other investments – 2,985 using the equity method and can also be found in the list of 1,773 6,132 shareholdings in these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The share of capital corresponds to the share of voting rights. € 535 thousand of the loans are loans to equity investments M aterial joint ventures (previous year: € 186 thousand). Due to the first-time application of IFRS 9 in the year under review, other investments are Neither of the two material joint ventures is listed on a stock no longer allocated to financial assets. They are reported under market, which is why there is no active market. non-current other non-financial assets. Summarised financial information on these material joint ven4 Other non-financial assets tures of the KSB Group is provided below. S ummarised balance sheet € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Other investments 2,914 – R econciliation to carrying amount of group share in joint ventures 2,914 –  ummarised information on joint ventures that are immaterial S individually Other investments are investments in affiliates that were not As in the previous year, there are no pro rata losses that have consolidated due to there being no material impact. There were not been recognised from the consolidation at equity. no write-downs applied in the year under review (previous year: € 850 thousand). Under IFRS 9, other investments are reported under other non-financial assets. They were previously allocated to financial assets. Material joint ventures Name and seat Capital share Nature of the entity’s relationship KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., 50.00 % KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, offers a wide range of services and activities for the energy Saudi Arabia market as well as in water, waste water and building services applications. The portfolio includes business development and marketing, supply chain management, production of pressure booster systems and pump sets, sale of pumps, valves and systems and technical service activities. KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. is important for the growth of the Group in the Saudi Arabian market. Shanghai Electric-KSB 45.00 % Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. in Shanghai, China, produces suitable auxiliary pumps Nuclear Pumps and Valves for the secondary coolant circuits and modern reactor coolant pumps for the primary cooling circuits of nuclear Co., Ltd. China power stations. Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. is a strategic partnership on the part of the Group, through which KSB is participating in the expansion of energy capacity in China and other Asian markets. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 147 Notes Summarised balance sheet Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Non-current assets 10,678 9,958 73,907 79,251 Current assets 39,143 36,141 126,679 102,249 of which cash and cash equivalents 263 157 17,928 7,116 Non-current liabilities – 4,896 – 4,619 – 25,523 – 35,836 of which non-current financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions) – 3,487 – 3,334 – 25,523 – Current liabilities – 26,634 – 26,193 – 145,667 – 116,777 of which current financial liabilities (excluding trade payables and provisions) – 5,090 – 4,989 – 26,793 – 37,227 Net assets 18,291 15,287 29,396 28,887 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. € thousands 2018 2017 2018 2017 Sales revenue 34,916 39,056 55,840 53,331 Depreciation / amortisation 782 590 4,116 4,223 Interest income – 11 62 35 Interest expense – 553 – 608 – 2,613 – 2,617 Earnings from continuing operations 2,591 1,872 775 1,569 Taxes on income – 46 – 680 – – 592 Earnings after taxes from continuing operations 2,545 1,192 775 977 Earnings after taxes from discontinued operations – – – – Other comprehensive income 861 – 2,941 – 266 – 1,870 Comprehensive income 3,406 – 1,749 509 – 893 Dividends received from joint ventures 201 951 – – Reconciliation to carrying amount of group share in joint ventures Shanghai ElectricKSB Nuclear KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd. Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd. € thousands 2018 2017 2018 2017 Net carrying amount at 1 January 15,287 18,938 28,887 29,780 Earnings after income tax 2,545 1,192 775 977 Distribution of dividends – 402 – 1,902 – – Other comprehensive income 861 – 2,941 – 266 – 1,870 Net carrying amount at 31 December 18,291 15,287 29,396 28,887 Investment in joint venture (50 % / 45 %) 9,145 7,643 13,228 12,999 Elimination of intercompany profit and loss – – – 3,349 – 2,969 Goodwill – – – – Carrying amount at 31 December 9,145 7,643 9,879 10,030 148 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Summarised information on joint ventures that are immaterial individually Joint Joint ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total € thousands 2018 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 Group share of earnings from continuing operations 140 592 732 211 583 794 Group share of other comprehensive income 144 23 167 – 460 – – 460 Group share of comprehensive income 284 615 899 – 249 583 334 Total carrying amounts of Group shares in these companies 3,631 1,200 4,831 3,347 1,165 4,512 6 Inventories 2018. KSB’s claims to consideration in exchange for goods or services transferred to customers are reported in the new “Con€ thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 tract assets” balance sheet item if the right to payment is not Raw materials, consumables and only conditional on the passage of time but also on the satis182,134 162,577 supplies faction of an overall contractual performance obligation by Work in progress 184,158 161,394 KSB. The opening balance sheet value of contract assets as at Finished goods and goods purchased 1 January 2018 was € 69,645 thousand. The balance of con162,128 121,421 and held for resale tract assets at the end of the year under review was at a comAdvance payments 16,010 16,485 parable level at € 74,499 thousand. 544,430 461,877 Impairment losses on trade receivables from third parties amounted to € 33,943 thousand (previous year: € 33,995 thou€ 61,614 thousand (previous year: € 51,933 thousand) of the sand). There were impairment losses of € 499 thousand on inventories is carried at net realisable value. The impairment trade receivables from other investments (previous year: € 839 losses recognised as an expense in the reporting period amount thousand). Impairment losses on contract assets amounted to to € 10,513 thousand (previous year: € 11,969 thousand). Due € 190 thousand. to new estimates, write-downs totalling € 810 thousand (previous year: € 1,303 thousand) were reversed where the current Impairment losses on trade receivables and contract assets innet realisable value was higher than the prior-period value. Include the individual impairment allowance (EWB ) and risk ventories amounting to € 911,991 thousand (previous year: provisions for expected credit losses (ECL). The following table € 887,869 thousand) were recognised as an expense in the reshows the reconciliation as at the first-time adoption date porting period. (31 December 2017 to 1 January 2018) and the change within the 2018 financial year.  7 Contract assets, trade receivables and other financial R econciliation of impairment losses and non-financial assets C ontract assets, trade receivables and other financial and The expected default risk determined using the simplified imnon-financial assets pairment model is distributed over the gross age structure of trade receivables excluding hedged receivables as shown below: The “Receivables recognised by PoC, net” item is no longer  isk provision for expected credit losses by maturity of trade R used following the implementation of IFRS 15 as at 1 January receivables KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 149 Notes Contract assets, trade receivables and other financial and non-financial assets € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Contract assets 74,499 – Trade receivables 518,116 613,311 Trade receivables from third parties 483,626 480,928 Trade receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures 34,490 32,341 thereof from other investments 5,384 3,524 thereof from associates 7 280 thereof from joint ventures 29,098 28,537 Receivables recognised by PoC, net – 100,042 Receivables recognised by PoC, gross – 130,021 Advances received from customers – – 29,979 Other financial assets 103,388 116,970 Receivables from loans to other investments, associates and joint ventures 12,661 13,344 Currency forwards 1,070 5,074 Other receivables and other current assets 89,657 98,552 Other non-financial assets 49,504 37,402 Other tax assets 40,124 30,830 Deferred income 9,380 6,572 Reconciliation of impairment losses Trade receivables from Contract third parties assets € thousands Total EWB ECL * ECL 31 Dec. 2017 IAS 39 – 33,995 – 27,746 – 6,249 – Restatement under IFRS 9 – 1,486 – – 1,486 – 79 1 Jan. 2018 – 35,481 – 27,746 – 7,735 – 79 Change in financial year Additions – 7,399 – 7,399 – – 111 Utilised 3,616 3,616 – – Reversals 5,321 2,170 3,151 – 31 Dec. 2018 – 33,943 – 29,359 – 4,584 – 190 * Lump-sum individual impairment allowance in the previous year Risk provision for expected credit losses by maturity of trade receivables Not Up to Up to Up to Up to Over 31 Dec. 2018 overdue 30 days 90 days 180 days 360 days 360 days Total Expected default risk in % 0.3 1.1 2.0 3.0 3.2 4.2 Gross trade receivables from third parties excluding hedged receivables € thousands 323,241 52,016 37,208 18,870 13,754 21,254 466,343 ECL € thousands – 830 – 554 – 753 – 560 – 439 – 893 – 4,029 150 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Furthermore, the balance of risk provisions for expected credit The capital reserve results from the appropriation of premiums losses includes € 555 thousand, which relate to hedged receivfrom capital increases in previous years. ables. In addition to revenue reserves from previous years, the revenue Risk provision for expected credit losses of contract assets reserves include currency translation adjustments, consolidation effects, remeasurements of defined benefit plans under 31 Dec. 2018 Not overdue IAS 19 and changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives Expected default risk in % 0.3 taken directly to equity. These resulted in deferred tax assets in Gross contract assets € thousands 74,689 the amount of € 75,366 thousand (previous year: € 70,477 ECL € thousands – 190 thousand) and deferred tax liabilities in the amount of € 24 thousand (previous year: € 187 thousand). Due to the new IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 accounting principles applied in the finanImpairment losses on receivables from loans to other investcial year, there was a cumulative decrease in revenue reserves ments amounted to € 3,172 thousand (previous year: € 3,127 of € 9,218 thousand as a result of the changeover. The impact thousand). No impairment losses were applied on receivables on the total equity of the KSB Group amounted to € 9,225 from joint ventures or associates, as in the previous year. thousand. Other receivables and other current assets include hedges of The effect on revenue reserves was as follows as at 1 January credit balances prescribed by law for partial retirement arrange2018: ments and long-term working time accounts of the German Group companies in the amount of € 24,700 thousand (previImpact on revenue reserves ous year: € 20,900 thousand). € thousands € 20,964 thousand (previous year: € 23,681 thousand) of all Increase in impairment losses (net) of financial assets and receivables and other assets fall due after more than one year. ­c ontract assets under IFRS 911 – 1,564 Increase in deferred tax assets1 562 8 Cash and cash equivalents Restatement of revenue reserves due to first-time ­application of IFRS 9 – 1,002 Cash and cash equivalents are term deposits with short maturCumulative impact on assets and liabilities under IFRS 151 ities and call deposits, and also current account balances. excluding deferred tax – 11,070 Balance from change in deferred tax1 2,854 9 Equity Restatement of revenue reserves due to first-time ­application of IFRS 15 – 8,216 There was no change in the share capital of KSB as against the Restatement of revenue reserves on 1 January under previous year. In accordance with the Articles of Association, it IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 – 9,218 totals € 44,771,963.82 and, as in the previous year, is composed 1 See the “Restatements in the opening balance sheet” table in Section III. Accountof 886,615 ordinary shares and 864,712 preference shares. ing Policies in the “Impact of the introduction of new accounting standards” Each no-par-value share represents an equal notional amount sub-section. of the share capital. The preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. All shares are no-par-value bearer shares. The individual shares have no par value. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 151 Notes A total of € 13,360 thousand (dividend of € 7.50 per ordinary were not consolidated due to there being no material impact, share and € 7.76 per preference share) was paid from equity by cash and cash equivalents and receivables from deposits). One resolution of the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s parent objective is to avoid net debt. KSB regularly reviews the perforcompany KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal, on 16 May 2018. mance of this key indicator. Due to the increase in inventory items, the net financial position of € 255 million (previous year: Non-controlling interests relate primarily to PAB GmbH, € 288 million) was € 45 million below the target figure of € 300 Frankenthal, and the interests it holds, as well as to the compamillion. nies in India and China. KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach, holds a 51 % interest in PAB GmbH, while Johannes und Jacob Klein 10 Provisions GmbH, Frankenthal, holds a 49 % interest. C omposition of provisions D evelopment of individual provision categories Details of the changes in equity accounts and non-controlling interests are presented in the Statement of Changes in Equity. In the 2018 financial year, the accounting principles were amended with the effect that some items previously allocated The proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings to current provisions for other employee benefits or current of KSB SE & Co. KGaA calculated in accordance with HGB other provisions are now classified as liabilities. This relates in [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] is shown at particular to obligations to employees arising from overtime, the end of these Notes. annual leave entitlements and bonuses as well as liabilities from outstanding invoices. To a lesser extent, such liabilities were Capital disclosures also identified in current provisions for warranty obligations Sufficient financial independence is a key requirement for safeand contractual penalties; due to the present certainty of their guarding KSB’s continued existence in the long term. Obtaining maturity and amount they were reclassified to liabilities in the the necessary funds for ongoing business operations is also exnew presentation as at 31 December 2017. All restated liabilitremely important for KSB. The control parameter for KSB until ties and provisions items as at 31 December 2017 are shown in the end of the 2018 financial year was the net financial position the relevant table. that is derived from the balance of interest-bearing financial liaR estatement of liabilities and provisions as at 31 Dec. 2017 bilities and interest-bearing financial assets (current and non-current financial instruments, interest-bearing loans to companies Please refer to Section III. Accounting Policies for further exaccounted for using the equity method as well as companies that planations. Composition of provisions 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Changes (€ thousands) Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Employee benefits 587,927 578,640 9,287 614,908 606,875 8,033* Pensions and similar obligations 553,573 553,573 – 586,861 586,861 – Other employee benefits 34,354 25,067 9,287 28,047 20,014 8,033* Other provisions 84,934 1,377 83,557 70,203 1,397 68,806* Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 45,582 – 45,582 49,812 – 49,812* Provisions for restructuring 1,023 – 1,023 2,750 – 2,750 Miscellaneous other provisions 38,329 1,377 36,952 17,641 1,397 16,244* 672,861 580,017 92,844 685,111 608,272 76,839* * Restated compared with presentation in the 2017 annual report. 152 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Development of individual provision categories 1 Jan. 2018 1 Jan. 2018 Changes in (applicaRestate(applicaconsolidated tion of ment under tion of Group / Utilisation / 31 Dec. Changes (€ thousands) IAS 11/18) IFRS 15 IFRS 15) CTA**/ Other Prepayments Reversals Additions 2018 Employee benefits 614,908* – 614,908 – 456 – 68,460 – 688 42,623 587,927 Pensions and similar obligations 586,861 – 586,861 – 189 – 60,267 – 27,168 553,573 Other employee benefits 28,047* – 28,047 – 267 – 8,193 – 688 15,455 34,354 Other provisions 70,203* 4,883 75,086 576 – 24,192 – 7,819 41,282 84,934 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 49,812* – 49,812 – 411 – 18,049 – 2,271 16,501 45,582 Provisions for restructuring 2,750 – 2,750 1 – 1,745 –1 18 1,023 Miscellaneous other provisions 17,641* 4,883 22,524 986 – 4,398 – 5,547 24,764 38,329 685,111* 4,883 689,994 120 – 92,652 – 8,507 83,905 672,861 * Restated compared with presentation in the 2017 annual report. ** CTA = Currency translation adjustments Restatement of liabilities and provisions as at 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 (as originally 31 Dec. 2017 € thousands reported) Restatement (restated) Current provisions for other employee benefits 81,472 – 73,439 8,033 Current provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penalties 51,275 – 1,463 49,812 Current other provisions 44,382 – 28,138 16,244 Trade payables to third parties 210,819 29,601 240,420 Current other non-financial liabilities relating to social security and liabilities to employees 48,703 73,439 122,142 Total 436,651 0 436,651 In the reporting year, the first-time application of IFRS 15 For employees of Group companies in Germany there is a demeant that for customer contracts that are expected to make a fined contribution plan under the German statutory pension loss, contract assets and provisions for expected losses were insurance scheme into which the employer must pay the curstated gross under other provisions. The year-on-year rise in rently valid pension contribution rate. Contributions to state other provisions is specifically due to the fact that in the previpension insurance funds recognised in the income statement ous year, before application of IFRS 15, expected losses from totalled € 26,778 thousand (previous year: € 25,989 thousand). customer contracts were recognised through “Receivables rec€ 7,877 thousand (previous year: € 7,446 thousand) was spent ognised by PoC, net”. The opening balance sheet value of othon defined contribution schemes for employees in other couner provisions as at 1 January 2018 increased by € 4,883 thoutries in the year under review. sand in this connection. The obligations for defined benefit pension plans for employees Provisions for pensions and similar obligations of the Group are mainly due to pension obligations in GermaThe pension obligations in the KSB Group include defined conny, as well as in France, the United States and Switzerland. tribution and defined benefit plans and contain both obligations from current pensions and future pension benefit entitlements. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 153 Notes More than 90 % of the defined benefit pension plans are attribsion fund or insurance company to pay out these minimum utable to the German Group companies. These relate to direct amounts. As well as pension benefits, the plans encompass othcommitments by the companies to their employees. The comer benefits such as disability or survivors’ benefits. Both emmitments are based on salary and length of service. Contribuployer and employee contributions are paid to the pension tions from employees themselves are also considered. This penfund, with the company having to make contributions that at sion provision can be broken down into purely company-financed least match the employee contributions specified in the terms basic provision and the top-up provision from the employer. and conditions of the plan. The retirement benefits are paid out The latter is based on the amount of own contributions and the in monthly instalments, but all employees have the option to generated return on sales before taxes on income. Both comporeceive a (partial) capital payment. nents take account of the general pension contribution (the amount of which partially depends on company performance), In addition, employees in other countries are also entitled to a personal income (the relationship between pensionable income limited extent to retirement and partly to medical care benefits, and maximum income threshold) and the annuity conversion depending mainly on the length of service and salary. factor (based on age). Pension benefits are paid in annual instalments of one tenth of the amount. However, under certain These defined benefit plans impose actuarial risks on the Group, conditions it is also possible to make a capital payment or pay such as the longevity risk and interest rate risk. The payments a monthly pension instead. Since the year under review, early associated with the pension obligations are mostly serviced payments of the capital amount after termination of the emthrough liquidity. Plan assets are also partially available for ployment contract have also been possible. financing these obligations. Most of the plan assets are managed by insurers who set their own appropriate investment Pension schemes in France are governed by the provisions of policies. the respective collective agreements. The obligations are basically covered by assets that have been paid in to an external The actuarial valuations of the present value of the defined fund. At the beginning of the final quarter of each year, an acbenefit obligation (and the related current service cost and the tuarial report is prepared to calculate the current scope of obpast service cost) are measured and calculated annually on the ligation. If there is a shortfall, a compensation payment is made basis of actuarial reports using the projected unit credit method to the fund. Differences in the calculation parameters under (IAS 19). Plan assets are measured at fair value. local and international law ultimately result in a surplus of B alance sheet figures for defined benefit plans obligations in the Group. Upon retirement, the employees conC hange in cash value of defined benefit obligations cerned receive a one-off payment from the fund. The current and past service cost is recognised in staff costs The defined benefit pension plans in the United States are closed under pension costs, and the interest cost is recognised in fito new entrants. The pension benefit amount is derived from nance income / expense under interest and similar expenses. the average salary and years of service before closure of the plan. The retirement age is 65 years; from this point a monthly The pension plans of German companies concluded before payment is made to the beneficiaries. The pension benefits are 2009 solely provided for the payment of accumulated amounts financed by external funds. in the form of a monthly pension for life upon retirement. In an extension to the Group works agreement, a lump-sum opPension obligations in Switzerland are predominantly based on tion was added to the company pension scheme in the 2018 statutory obligations. This also includes details on a minimum financial year. Under this, every employee is entitled to apply at pension which all employees with uninterrupted contributions any time during the ongoing employment contract for payment are entitled to by law. The employer is therefore required to pay in annual instalments, as a single payment or as a pension for in contributions which are high enough for the respective penlife. KSB has estimated how the specific workforce is likely to 154 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Balance sheet figures for defined benefit plans Defined benefit Net liability Defined benefit Net liability obligations Fair value of from defined obligations Fair value of from defined (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans (DBOs) plan assets benefit plans € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 Germany 529,188 – 529,188 560,234 – 560,234 France 16,332 7,279 9,053 17,920 7,181 10,739 USA 13,411 11,253 2,158 14,217 12,066 2,151 Switzerland 12,794 11,721 1,073 17,253 15,769 1,484 Other countries 39,458 27,357 12,101 40,841 28,588 12,253 Carrying amounts 611,183 57,610 553,573 650,465 63,604 586,861 Change in cash value of defined benefit obligations € thousands 2018 2017 Opening balance of the defined benefit obligation (DBO ) – 1 Jan. 650,465 654,392 Current service cost 8,011 9,858 Interest cost 12,837 12,844 Employee contributions 3,190 4,409 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions 4,718 1,206 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions 1,278 – 5,340 – / + Experience-based gain / loss 818 – 2,091 Benefit payments – 20,935 – 18,614 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) – 46,174 – 218 Transfer of assets – 433 – 138 Currency translation differences 192 – 5,613 Changes in consolidated Group / Other – 2,784 – 230 Closing balance of the defined benefit obligation (DBO ) – 31 Dec. 611,183 650,465 decide on exercising the lump-sum option and has taken this Statistical Office and reflect the most up-to-date developments into account for the measurement of pension provisions. Recon mortality, disability, marriage and fluctuation probabilities. ognition of the exercising of this lump-sum option has resulted In addition, the new tables take the statistically verifiable relain income of € 46,434 thousand in total based on past service tion between life expectancy and the amount of pension paid cost. into consideration by way of a general marking down of mortality rates. In addition, the new mortality tables reflect changed On 2 October 2018, Heubeck AG published the new Heubeck disability rates, as there has been a decline for more than ten 2018 G mortality tables. These contain the latest statistics of years in the age range from 58 years. statutory pension insurance schemes by the German Federal KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 155 Notes In relation to the total volume of provisions for pensions and A mean fluctuation rate (2.0 %) continues to be applied to staff similar obligations, the impact of the application of the new turnover for the German plans, as in the previous year. The mortality tables is not material. Provisions have increased by biometric assumptions are based on the 2018G mortality tables € 4,803 thousand as a result. (previous year: 2015G mortality tables) published by Prof. Klaus Heubeck, and the retirement age used for the calculations The expected contributions in the following year are forecast is based on the Rentenversicherungs-Altersgrenzenanpassungsto be around € 10,527 thousand (previous year: € 11,448 thougesetz 2007 [RVAGAnpG – German Act Adapting the Standard sand). Retirement Age for the Statutory Pension Insurance System]. C hanges in the fair value of the plan assets Other measurement parameters (e.g. cost trends in the medical care area) are not material. Interest income is recognised in the income statement net of the DBO interest expense under interest and similar expenses and The discount rate and future mortality were identified as key thus reported under finance income / expense. actuarial assumptions. As in the previous year the basis for the C hanges to the net liability of the defined benefit obligations calculation of the sensitivities is the same method which was C omposition of plan assets used for the calculation of the provisions for pensions and similar obligations. The pension funds are endowed with the amount needed to meet the respective statutory minimum requirements. Were the discount factor to increase by 100 basis points, the DBO would fall by € 86 million (previous year: € 102 million). The actual expense for plan assets amounted to € 1,093 thouA 100 basis point reduction in the discount factor would insand (previous year: income of € 5,109 thousand). crease the DBO by € 113 million (previous year: € 131 million). A ctuarial assumptions It should be noted that a change in the discount factor due to Changes in the fair value of the plan assets € thousands 2018 2017 Opening balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 1 Jan. 63,604 64,850 Interest income 2,019 2,008 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income – 3,922 3,101 Contributions by the employer 1,787 1,655 Contributions by the beneficiary employees 197 223 Currency translation differences 131 – 4,485 Changes in consolidated Group – – Paid benefits – 4,096 – 2,801 Other – 2,110 – 947 Closing balance of the plan assets measured at fair value – 31 Dec. 57,610 63,604 156 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Changes to the net liability of the defined benefit obligations € thousands 2018 2017 Opening balance of the net liability from defined benefit plans – 1 Jan. 586,861 589,542 Current service cost 8,011 9,858 Net interest expense 10,818 10,836 Employee contributions 2,993 4,186 Contributions by the employer – 1,787 – 1,655 Remeasurements – / + Gain / loss from plan assets excluding amounts already recognised in interest income 3,922 – 3,101 – / + Gain / loss from the change in demographic assumptions 4,718 1,206 – / + Gain / loss from the change in financial assumptions 1,278 – 5,340 – / + Experience-based gain / loss 818 – 2,091 Benefit payments – 16,839 – 15,813 Past service cost (incl. effects of settlements and curtailments) – 46,174 – 218 Transfer of assets – 433 – 138 Currency translation differences 61 – 1,128 Changes in consolidated Group / Other – 674 717 Closing balance of the net liability from defined benefit plans – 31 Dec. 553,573 586,861 Composition of plan assets No quoted No quoted Quoted market ­market price Quoted market ­m arket price price in an in an active price in an in an active active market market Total active market market Total € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 Equity instruments (shares) 20,746 – 20,746 19,660 – 19,660 Debt instruments (loans) 21,824 70 21,894 16,782 – 16,782 Government bonds 6,625 – 6,625 8,817 – 8,817 Corporate bonds 15,199 70 15,269 7,965 – 7,965 Currency forwards – – – – – – Money market investments 1,606 277 1,883 7,611 – 7,611 Real estate 3,377 – 3,377 520 – 520 Insurance contracts – 6,098 6,098 – 16,319 16,319 Bank credit balances 792 12 804 1,482 – 1,482 Other investments 1,528 1,280 2,808 870 360 1,230 49,873 7,737 57,610 46,925 16,679 63,604 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 157 Notes Actuarial assumptions Discount rate Assumed rate of salary increase Assumed rate of pension increase in % 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Germany 1.8 1.9 2.7 2.7 1.9 1.9 France 1.6 1.35 2.8 3.0 – – USA 4.0 3.4 – – – – Switzerland 1.0 0.6 1.0 1.0 – – Other countries 1.25 – 13.25 0.75 – 10.4 1.5 – 21.0 1.0 – 11.0 1.5 – 14.5 1.5 – 3.0 Expected pension benefit payments € thousands at 31 Dec. 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Expected payments 27,711 23,953 25,900 23,630 25,576 € thousands at 31 Dec. 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Expected payments 23,964 21,181 21,241 22,230 21,716 particular financial effects (such as compound interest) does not amounted to € 45,582 thousand (restated previous year’s figure: affect the development of the DBO on a straight-line basis. € 49,812 thousand). Were life expectancy to increase by 1 year, the DBO would increase by € 22 million (previous year: € 20 million). Other provisions primarily contain provisions for expected losses of € 25,900 thousand (previous year: € 4,656 thousand). Additionally, the individual actuarial assumptions are mutualThese include provisions for a legacy project in the United Kingly dependent, but these interdependencies are not taken into dom as well as provisions set aside due to the political situation account in the sensitivity analysis. in Iran. They also cover risks of litigation and legal proceedings if the recognition criteria for a provision are met (€ 8.6 million; On 31 December 2018 the weighted average term of the defined previous year: € 5.3 million). These are usually risks arising from benefit obligations was 24 years, as in the previous year. legal disputes in relation to operations or, in rare cases, disputes E xpected pension benefit payments with government agencies or personnel matters. In order to determine the amount of the provisions, the facts related to each Other employee benefits case, the size of the claim, the results of comparable proceedings Provisions for other employee benefits relate primarily to anniand independent legal opinions are considered in individual casversary and partial retirement obligations. es along with assumptions regarding the probability of occurrence and the range of potential claims. Other provisions The provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penal€ 16,571 thousand (previous year: € 18,489 thousand) of the ties cover the statutory and contractual obligations to customers other provisions are expected to become cash-effective after and are based on estimates prepared using historical data for more than one year. similar products and services. In the year under review, they 158 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes 11 Liabilities Non-current liabilities € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Financial liabilities 30,099 54,333 Loan against borrower’s note 21,976 47,964 Bank loans and overdrafts 6,967 5,468 Finance lease liabilities 826 574 Other 330 327 Current liabilities € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Financial liabilities 48,777 21,960 Loan against borrower’s note 26,000 – Bank loans and overdrafts 21,990 21,275 Finance lease liabilities 404 353 Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures 320 322 Other 63 10 Trade payables 270,212 241,630* Trade payables to third parties 264,675 240,420* Liabilities to other investments, associates and joint ventures 5,537 1,210 Contract liabilities 157,389 – Other financial liabilities 32,767 81,467 Advances received from customers PoC (net) – 49,401 Advances received from customers PoC (gross) – 88,172 Receivables recognised by PoC – – 38,771 Currency forwards 3,731 1,883 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 29,036 30,183 Other non-financial liabilities 154,689 263,600* Advances received from customers – 97,703 Social security and liabilities to employees 116,674 122,142* Tax liabilities (excluding income tax) 23,734 28,171 Prepaid expenses 9,629 10,788 Investment grants and subsidies 4,652 4,796 Income tax liabilities 8,326 5,214 * Restated compared with presentation in the 2017 annual report. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 159 Notes In 2012, to safeguard liquidity in the medium term, KSB SE & The opening balance sheet value of contract liabilities as at Co. KGaA took the precaution of placing a loan against bor1 January 2018 was € 165,192 thousand. In the financial year, rower’s note with a total volume of € 175 million. This loan is KSB reported sales revenue of € 61,797 thousand which was divided into repayment tranches of 3, 5, 7 and 10 years. Tranchcontained in the balance of contract liabilities at the beginning es of € 127 thousand in total were repaid in 2017 and 2015, of the financial year. Cost corrections of fixed-price contracts some early. As the different repayment tranches have different and the resulting changes in contract progress had a positive terms, different rates of interest apply, some of which are fixed € 1.9 million impact on contract liabilities. Contract liabilities and some variable. There were no redemptions in the year unas at 31 December 2018 totalled € 157,389 thousand, which der review. € 27.5 million of the liabilities arising from the loan was € 7,803 thousand below the opening balance sheet figure. against borrower’s note are classified as bank loans and overdrafts, and € 20.5 million as other financial liabilities (unAssets amounting to € 11,939 thousand (previous year: € 6,098 changed on the previous year). thousand) have been pledged as security in the KSB Group for bank liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. There has also been a syndicated loan agreement of KSB SE & Of these, € 5,239 thousand (previous year: none) relate to propCo. KGaA and KSB Finanz S.A. since December 2018 to hedge erty, plant and equipment, none (previous year: € 1,522 thouliquidity risk and cover the need for bank guarantees of the KSB sand) to inventories, none as in the previous year to receivables Group. The Group used these as follows at the end of the finanand € 5,258 thousand (previous year: € 4,576 thousand) to cial year: other securities. Maximum Use as at As in the previous year, no liabilities were secured by land € thousands / Type of line amount of line 31 Dec. 2018 charges or similar rights in the year under review. Loans 300,000 – Sureties 350,000 86,950 The reported investment grants and subsidies largely comprise funding from the European Union and German entities for new buildings and development aid projects. The credit line can be used at any time and has a fixed term of five years with the option to renew twice by one year each time. The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and overdrafts as well as on an open-market credit (loan against borItems presented in the previous year as advances received from rower’s note) was 3.94 % (previous year: 4.31 %). Interest rate customers and advances received from customers PoC (net) are risk exists for the major portion of the loan against borrower’s stated as contract liabilities under IFRS 15. They reflect KSB’s note mentioned above. obligation to transfer goods or services to customers for which KSB has already received advance payments. There were no covenant agreements for loans in the year under review, as was the case in the previous year too. In the 2018 financial year, the accounting principles were amended so that some items previously allocated to provisions are now classified as liabilities. This covers trade payables to third parties and other non-financial liabilities relating to social security and liabilities to employees. The previous year’s figures were restated accordingly. For more details on this, please refer to the explanations in Sections III. Accounting Policies, and IV. Balance Sheet Disclosures – Notes No. 10 “Provisions”. 160 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes V. I NCOME STATEMENT DISCLOSURES 13 Other income 12 Sales revenue Other income Sales revenue by contract type € thousands 2018 2017 Income from the reversal of provisions 8,507 14,845 € thousands 2018 2017 Income from the reversal of impairment Revenue from the sale of goods and goods losses 5,321 5,834 purchased and held for resale 1,984,508 1,951,928 Income from disposal of assets 1,618 12,319 Services sales revenue 261,440 253,030 Currency translation gains 1,146 5,767 Sales revenue 2,245,948 2,204,958 Miscellaneous other income 16,458 30,405 33,050 69,170 KSB generates income from the transfer of goods and services over time or at a point in time in the segments presented. Income from current assets is primarily from the reversal of imS ales revenue by segment and timing of revenue recognition pairment losses on receivables. Insurance compensation, rental and lease income and commission income are also part of other Spare parts used for repairs are also included in the Service income. Government grants for individual projects (for example, segment. for research activities) generated income of € 3,855 thousand (previous year: € 3,065 thousand). Unsatisfied performance obligations € thousands 2018 14 Cost of materials Orders on hand, total transaction price of unsatisfied performance obligations as at 31 Dec. 2018 1,353,910 Cost of materials of which expected sales revenue within the next 12 months 1,004,119 € thousands 2018 2017 of which expected sales revenue in more than 12 months 349,791 Cost of raw materials, production supplies and of goods purchased and held for resale 836,383 795,559 The stated amounts include variable considerations amounting Cost of purchased services 98,162 92,261 to € 6,760 thousand. 934,545 887,820 Sales revenue by segment and timing of revenue recognition Pumps Valves Service € thousands segment segment segment Total Revenue from contracts with customers 1,469,443 340,771 435,734 2,245,948 Timing of revenue recognition At a point in time 1,307,639 319,957 – 1,627,596 Over time 161,804 20,814 435,734 618,352 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 161 Notes 15 Staff costs 16 Other expenses Staff costs Other expenses € thousands 2018 2017 € thousands 2018 2017 Wages and salaries 655,614 640,390 Repairs, maintenance, third-party services 118,983 96,981 Social security contributions and employee Administrative expenses 89,703 84,232 assistance costs 126,650 128,563 Selling expenses 68,370 66,083 Pension costs – 16,802 27,779 Rents and leases 26,640 27,232 765,462 796,732 Other staff costs 26,001 38,480 Impairment losses on trade receivables and contract assets 7,510 8,219 Pension costs are reduced by the interest component included Currency translation losses 2,546 5,508 in the allocation of provisions that is reported in financial inLosses from current assets 2,142 2,648 come / expense. Income of € 46,434 thousand based on past Losses from asset disposals 661 3,169 service cost has resulted from the introduction in December Miscellaneous other expenses 74,313 59,862 2018 of a lump-sum option as additional payment variant for 416,869 392,414 pension claims acquired by staff. E mployees Other expenses include mainly additions to provisions of The first-time inclusion of the fully consolidated company KSB € 26,719 thousand (previous year: € 13,490 thousand). The Dubric, Inc., USA, led to an increase of 32 in the average number provision for a legacy project in the United Kingdom has a of employees over the year and in the total number at the rematerial impact here. porting date. E mployees Average for the year At reporting date 2018 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 Wage earners 6,744 6,998 6,737 6,954 Salaried employees 8,457 8,073 8,535 8,047 15,201 15,071 15,272 15,001 Apprentices 410 450 441 454 15,611 15,521 15,713 15,455 162 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes 17 Finance income / expense 18 Taxes on income Finance income / expense All income-related taxes of the consolidated companies and deInterest and similar expenses include the net interest cost on ferred taxes are reported in this item. Other taxes are reported pension provisions amounting to € 10,818 thousand (previous in the income statement after other expenses. year: € 10,836 thousand). Taxes on income On 20 July 2018, 30 % (plus one share) of the shares in KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd. were issued to the new B-BBEE € thousands 2018 2017 partner. The issuance of the company shares to the new B-BBEE Effective taxes 27,663 36,053 partner is within the scope of IFRS 2. There is a payment through Deferred taxes 13,981 16,023 equity instruments, as no form of cash settlement payment is 41,644 52,076 specified in the agreements. The shares issued were measured at fair value using a Monte Carlo simulation. The value of the € 1,376 thousand (previous year: € 425 thousand) of the effecshares totals € 768 thousand and is reported under other tive taxes in the year under review related to prior-period tax ­finance expense. For more details see Section II. Basis of Conrefunds and € 889 thousand (previous year: € 2,632 thousand) solidation – Consolidated Group. to tax arrears. The positive performance of the finance income / expense is primarily due to lower interest expenses from a scheduled partial redemption of the loan against borrower’s note in December 2017. Finance income / expense € thousands 2018 2017 Finance income 4,893 6,417 Income from equity investments 248 253 thereof from other investments (248) (253) Interest and similar income 4,618 6,139 thereof from other investments (30) (36) thereof from investments accounted for using the equity method (767) (644) Other finance income 27 25 Finance expense – 16,544 – 20,106 Interest and similar expenses – 15,432 – 19,204 Write-downs on other investments – – 853 Other finance expense – 1,112 – 49 Income / expense from / to investments accounted for using the equity method 2,510 1,514 Finance income / expense – 9,141 – 12,175 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 163 Notes Reconciliation of deferred taxes ing from companies posting a loss in the financial year or previous year, whose realisation exclusively depends on the creation € thousands 2018 2017 of future profit. Based on the planning figures available, KSB Change in deferred tax assets 11,345 20,430 expects realisation to take place. Change in deferred tax liabilities – 4,451 2,328 Change in deferred taxes recognised in Income tax included under equity balance sheet 6,894 22,758 € thousands 2018 2017 Change in deferred taxes taken directly to Remeasurement of defined benefit plans – 10,736 9,328 equity 5,024 – 6,100 Taxes on income 3,341 – 3,843 Changes in consolidated Group / CTA */ Currency translation differences – 13,276 – 54,238 Other 2,063 – 635 Taxes on income – – Deferred taxes recognised in income Changes in the fair value of financial statement 13,981 16,023 instruments – 5,624 7,203 Taxes on income 1,683 – 2,257 * CTA = Currency translation adjustments Other comprehensive income – 24,612 – 43,807 A llocation of deferred taxes The introduction of new local taxes had minor effects (previous year: none) in the year under review. Changes in foreign tax As at the reporting date, deferred tax assets of € 67,579 thourates led to an increase in the total tax expense of € 185 thousand (previous year: € 80,111 thousand) were recognised, arissand (previous year: reduction of € 2,386 thousand). Allocation of deferred taxes Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities € thousands 2018 2017 2018 2017 Non-current assets 4,191 1,456 36,708 28,220 Intangible assets 608 739 9,089 105 Property, plant and equipment 3,583 717 27,618 28,060 Non-current financial assets – – 1 55 Current assets 41,999 54,912 20,957 50,142 Inventories 34,997 49,356 51 143 Receivables and other current assets 7,002 5,556 20,906 49,999 Assets held for sale – – – – Non-current liabilities 84,364 93,504 7 88 Provisions 84,167 93,312 – 77 Other liabilities 197 192 7 11 Current liabilities 18,600 15,806 22,475 11,438 Provisions 12,055 10,408 931 1,261 Other liabilities 6,545 5,398 21,544 10,177 Tax loss carryforwards 1,132 1,243 – – Gross deferred taxes – before offsetting 150,286 166,921 80,147 89,888 Offset under IAS 12.74 – 69,895 – 75,185 – 69,895 – 75,185 Net deferred taxes – after offsetting 80,391 91,736 10,252 14,703 164 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes As far as net income from affiliates and other equity investOther tax credits were previously contained under Miscellanements is concerned, withholding taxes incurred in connection ous. These are now stated separately under “Other tax credits”. with distributions and German taxes incurred are recognised The previous period was restated accordingly. as deferred taxes if these gains are expected to be subject to corresponding taxation, or there is no intention of reinvesting  19 Earnings after income tax – Non-controlling interests them in the long term. No deferred tax liabilities were recognised for temporary differences of € 71,440 thousand (previous The net profit attributable to non-controlling interests year: € 108,394 thousand) in relation to affiliates and associates amounts to € 13,569 thousand (previous year: € 15,770 thouas it is unlikely that these temporary differences will be reversed sand) and the net loss attributable to non-controlling interests in the foreseeable future. amounts to € 951 thousand (previous year: € 847 thousand). Non-controlling interests relate primarily to PAB GmbH, No deferred tax assets were recognised for loss carryforwards Frankenthal, and the interests it holds, as well as to the comamounting to € 124,041 thousand (previous year: € 78,748 panies in India and China. thousand) because it is unlikely that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these 20 Earnings per share deferred tax assets can be utilised. The loss carryforwards are largely available for an indefinite period. Earnings per share Deductible temporary differences for which no deferred tax Earnings per share under IAS 8.28 (f) after application of acassets had to be set up amounted to € 34,339 thousand (previcounting standards IAS 11 and IAS 18 as at 31 December 2018 ous year: € 32,722 thousand). would be € 7.36 per ordinary share and € 7.81 per preference Reconciliation of income tax share. The unchanged applicable tax rate of 30 % is a composite rate resulting from the current German corporation tax, solidarity surcharge and trade tax rates. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 165 Notes Reconciliation of income tax € thousands 2018 2017* Earnings before income tax (EBT ) 65,561 104,180 Calculated income tax on the basis of the applicable tax rate (30 % as in the previous year) 19,668 31,254 Differences in tax rates 16 – 3,297 Unused tax loss carryforwards 14,124 4,229 Impairment losses on deferred taxes on tax loss carryforwards – 7,012 Impairment loss on goodwill 6,659 1,222 Impairment losses on deferred taxes for temporary differences – 3,991 Tax-exempt income – 7,243 – 2,381 Non-deductible expenses 11,957 7,548 Prior-period taxes – 1,587 2,207 Other tax credits – 1,695 – 2,246 Non-deductible foreign income tax 2,471 2,406 Investments accounted for using the equity method – 579 – 408 Miscellaneous – 2,147 539 Current taxes on income 41,644 52,076 Current tax rate 64 % 50 % * Restated compared with presentation in the 2017 annual report. Earnings per share 2018 2017 Earnings after income tax attributable to KSB SE & Co. KGaA shareholders € thousands 11,299 37,181 Additional dividend attributable to preference shareholders (€ 0.38 per preference share) € thousands – 329 – 225 € thousands 10,970 36,956 Number of ordinary shares 886,615 886,615 Number of preference shares 864,712 864,712 Total number of shares 1,751,327 1,751,327 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share € 6.26 21.10 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share € 6.64 21.36 166 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes VI. A DDITIONAL DISCLOSURES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments – Carrying amounts and fair values by measurement category Financial instruments by measurement category as at 31 Dec. 2018 – Assets Carrying Balance sheet item / Class amount Fair value € thousands Measurement category 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 Non-current assets Non-current financial instruments FVPL 660 660 Loans Amortised cost 1,113 1,113 Current assets Trade receivables from third parties Amortised cost 483,626 – Trade receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures Amortised cost 34,490 – Receivables from loans to other investments, associates and joint ventures Amortised cost 12,661 – Currency forwards used as hedges n/a 1,070 1,070 Other receivables and other current assets Amortised cost 89,657 – Cash and cash equivalents Amortised cost 255,545 – Financial instruments by measurement category as at 31 Dec. 2018 – Equity and liabilities Carrying Balance sheet item / Class amount Fair value € thousands Measurement category 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2018 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities Amortised cost 29,273 31,621 Finance lease liabilities n/a 826 832 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities Amortised cost 48,373 – Finance lease liabilities n/a 404 – Trade payables Amortised cost 270,212 – Currency forwards used as hedges n/a 3,731 3,731 Miscellaneous other financial liabilities Amortised cost 29,036 – Carrying amounts aggregated by category under IFRS 9 Balance sheet item € thousands Measurement category 31 Dec. 2018 Assets Amortised cost 877,092 Equity and liabilities Amortised cost 376,894 FVPL FVPL 660 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 167 Notes Financial instruments by measurement category (IAS 39) as at 31 Dec. 2017 – Assets MeasureCarrying Balance sheet item / Class ment Initial / subsequent amount Fair value € thousands category measurement 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 Non-current assets Other investments n/a Amortised cost 2,985 – Non-current financial instruments AfS Fair value 657 657 Loans LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 2,490 2,490 Current assets Trade receivables LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 480,928 – Trade receivables from other investments, associates and joint ventures LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 32,341 – Receivables from loans to other investments, associates and joint ventures LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 13,344 – Receivables recognised by PoC, net LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 100,042 – Currency forwards used as hedges n/a Fair value 5,074 5,074 Other receivables and other current assets LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 98,552 – Cash and cash equivalents LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 289,535 – Financial instruments by measurement category (IAS 39) as at 31 Dec. 2017 – Equity and liabilities MeasureCarrying Balance sheet item / Class ment Initial / subsequent amount Fair value € thousands category measurement 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2017 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 53,759 52,622 Finance lease liabilities n/a In accordance with IAS 17 574 579 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 21,607 – Finance lease liabilities n/a In accordance with IAS 17 353 – Trade payables FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 241,360 – Advances received from customers on contract assets FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 49,401 – Currency forwards used as hedges n/a Fair value 1,883 1,883 Other financial liabilities FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 30,183 – Carrying amounts aggregated by category under IFRS 7 MeasureBalance sheet item ment Initial / € thousands category subsequent measurement 31 Dec. 2017 Loans and receivables LaR Fair value / Amortised cost 1,017,232 Available-for-sale financial instruments AfS Fair value 657 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost FLAC Fair value / Amortised cost 346,909 168 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes The carrying amount of financial assets measured at amortised forward exchange rates (observable rates on the reporting date) cost approximates fair value. This is also the case for all finanand the contracted forward exchange rates, and are discounted cial liabilities shown on the balance sheet, with the exception with an adequate interest rate. Level 3 includes financial instruof non-current and current financial liabilities. This is mainly ments whose fair value is determined on the basis of inputs not due to the short maturities of these financial instruments. based on observable market data. Foreign exchange derivatives are measured using forward exchange rates. For interest rate The fair values of non-current financial liabilities and loans are swaps the fair value is determined through discounting the fudetermined as the present value of the cash flows within level ture expected cash flows based on the market interest rates and 2 associated with the liabilities and loans. KSB applies an apyield curves that apply to the remaining term of the contracts. propriate yield curve to arrive at this present value. The following table shows the financial assets and liabilities The fair values of the current and non-current financial instrumeasured at fair value on a recurring basis, broken down into ments presented in the table above are based on prices quoted measurement categories and the previously described hierarchy in active markets (level 1). Fair values within level 2 are deterlevels. There were no reclassifications carried out during the mined based on a discounted cash flow method. Future cash year under review. flows from currency forwards are estimated on the basis of Hierarchy levels 2018 € thousands Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Current financial instruments 660 – – 660 Currency forwards – 1,070 – 1,070 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 3,731 – 3,731 Hierarchy levels 2017 € thousands Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Current financial instruments 657 – – 657 Currency forwards – 5,074 – 5,074 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Currency forwards – 1,883 – 1,883 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 169 Notes The net gains and losses from financial instruments, after taking KSB is firstly exposed to credit risk. Credit risk is defined as the into account the relevant tax effect, are presented in the followpotential default or delays in the receipt of contractually agreed ing table: payments. KSB is also exposed to liquidity risk which is the risk N et results by measurement category in 2018 that an entity will be unable to meet its financial obligations, N et results by measurement category in 2017 or will be unable to meet them in full. In addition, KSB is exposed to market price risk. The risk of exchange rate or interest The interest shown is a component of finance income / expense. rate changes may adversely affect the economic position of the The effect from the application of the effective interest rate Group. Risks from fluctuations in the prices of financial instrumethod is immaterial here as the interest expenses are virtually ments are not material for KSB. offset by the resulting interest income. The other gains and losses are partly reported in other income and other expenses. KSB limits all these risks through an appropriate risk management system, defining how these risks are addressed through The amount of financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetguidelines and work instructions. In addition, KSB continuousting agreements is not material. ly monitors the current risk characteristics and regularly provides the information obtained in this way to the Managing Financial risks Directors and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardKSB is exposed to certain financial risks as a consequence of its ised reports and individual analyses. business activities. These risks can be classified into three areas: Net results by measurement category in 2018 From subsequent measurement From interest and Currency Impairment € thousands dividends At fair value translation losses From disposal Net results Amortised cost (assets) 4,645 – 500 – 1,997 – 3,148 Amortised cost (equity and liabilities) – 5,992 – 43 – – – 5,949 FVPL 12 – – – – 12 – 1,335 – 543 – 1,997 – – 2,789 Net results by measurement category in 2017 From subsequent measurement From interest and Currency Impairment € thousands dividends At fair value translation losses From disposal Net results LaR 6,164 – – 718 – 1,476 – 3,970 AfS 265 – – –2 – 263 FLAC – 9,542 – 228 – – – 9,314 – 3,113 – – 490 – 1,478 – – 5,081 170 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes The three risk areas are described in detail in the following. Liquidity risk Additional information is also provided in the group manageLiquidity management ensures that this risk is minimised in the ment report, in particular in the Economic Review, Report on Group and that solvency is ensured at all times. There are no Expected Developments, Opportunities and Risks Report secconcentrations of risk because KSB works with a number of tions. credit institutions, on which strict creditworthiness requirements are imposed. Credit risk The primary credit risk is that there is a delay in settling a receivKSB generates its financial resources primarily from its operatable, or that it is not settled either in full or in part. KSB miniing business. These are used to finance investments in non-curmises this risk using a variety of measures. As a matter of prinrent assets. KSB also uses them to cover our working capital ciple, KSB runs credit checks on potential and existing requirements. To keep these as low as possible, KSB monitors counterparties. KSB only enters into business relationships if the changes in inventories, contract assets, trade receivables, trade results of these checks are positive. Additionally, European compayables and contract liabilities regularly using a standardised panies in particular take out trade credit insurance policies. As Group reporting system. in the previous year, this applies to around 10 % of the Group’s trade receivables in total. In exceptional cases KSB accepts other The reporting system additionally ensures, with the help of securities (collateral) such as guarantees. The insurance policies monthly rolling cash flow planning, that the Group’s centralised primarily cover the risk of loss of receivables. Moreover, cover financial management is continuously informed about liquidity is also taken out against political and commercial risks in the surpluses and requirements. This enables KSB to optimally meet case of specific customers in selected countries. For both types the needs of the Group as a whole and of the individual comof insurance, KSB has agreed deductibles, which represent sigpanies. For selected companies KSB uses a cash pooling system nificantly less than 50 % of the insured volume. As part of reto ensure that available cash is deployed optimally within the ceivables management, KSB continuously monitors outstanding Group. A worldwide receivables netting procedure is also apitems, performs maturity analyses and establishes contact with plied within the KSB Group so as to minimise both the volume customers at an early stage if delays in payment occur. In the case of cash flows and the associated fees. In order to be able to of major projects, the terms and conditions provide for prepayprovide the necessary collateral in the project business, KSB ments, guarantees and – for export transactions – letters of credmakes corresponding guarantee volumes available. In addition, it. These also mitigate risk. KSB recognises impairment losses for it is always ensured that credit facilities are sufficient; KSB the residual risk remaining in trade receivables. It regularly ex­identifies the need for these on the basis of regular liquidity amines the extent to which individual receivables need to be planning. This way, it can react at any time to fluctuating written down for impairment. Indications of this are significant ­liquidity requirements. The approved cash loans and credit lines financial difficulties of the debtor, such as insolvency or banktotal approximately € 1,283.9 million (previous year: approx. ruptcy. KSB also covers the credit risk of receivables that are past € 893.5 million), of which € 1,012.4 million has not yet been due by providing for the risk involved. Receivables are derecogutilised (previous year: € 620.2 million). nised when it is reasonably certain that payment cannot be expected. The following tables show the contractually agreed non-discounted future cash flows of the financial liabilities (primary The maximum default risk, excluding collateral received, correfinancial instruments) and derivative financial instruments. Insponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. These all terest payments on fixed-rate liabilities are determined on the have an investment grade rating. basis of the fixed rate. Floating-rate interest payments are based on the last floating interest rates fixed before 31 December. There is no concentration of risk because the diversity of KSB’s Projections for future new liabilities are not included in the business means that it supplies a considerable number of cuspresentation. Based on the current state of knowledge, it is tomers in different sectors. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 171 Notes n ­ either expected that the cash flows will take place significantly this risk using currency forwards and, on rare occasions, opearlier, nor that the amounts will differ significantly. tions. Further information is presented in Section III. AccountCash flows of financial liabilities 2018 ing Policies under “Financial assets and liabilities – b) DerivaCash flows of financial liabilities 2017 tive financial instruments”. KSB uses micro hedges with regard to both transactions already recognised and cash flows that are Market price risk expected in the future with a high degree of probability. The Global business activities expose KSB primarily to currency and hedging instruments used share the essential terms and condiinterest rate risk. Any changes in market prices can affect fair tions with the underlying transactions, i.e. with regard to values and future cash flows. Sensitivity analyses are used to amount, term and quality. Internal guidelines govern the use of determine the hypothetical impact of such market price fluctufinancial instruments. Such transactions are also subject to onations on earnings and equity. In doing so, KSB assumes that going risk control measures. The effectiveness of hedges is dethe portfolio at the reporting date is representative of the full termined at the beginning of the hedge and through regular year. prospective assessment. The aim is to ensure that there is a financial relationship between the hedge underlying and hedging KSB reduces the risks resulting from changes in prices on the instrument. The hedging instruments used are exclusively curprocurement side for orders with extended delivery dates by rency forwards entered into with prime-rated banks. To hedge agreeing cost escalation clauses or, in the case of fixed-price forward exchange transactions, the Group takes out hedges contracts, by including the expected rate of cost increases in the where the contractual modalities of the hedging instrument essales price. sentially match those of the hedged underlying. The hedge ratio for hedges is 1:1, i.e. the volume of hedge transactions matches Currency risk mainly affects cash flows from operating activithe designated underlyings. In order to measure the effectiveties. It arises when Group companies settle transactions in curness or ineffectiveness of hedges, KSB compares the fair value rencies that are not their functional currency. KSB minimises of the underlying and the hedge transactions. Changes in the Cash flows of financial liabilities 2018 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 84,419 56,101 28,005 313 Trade payables 270,212 270,212 – – Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 29,036 26,320 2,716 – Derivative financial instruments Incoming payments – 1,190 – 1,062 – 128 – Derivative financial instruments Outgoing payments 3,851 3,498 353 – 386,328 355,069 30,946 313 Cash flows of financial liabilities 2017 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 82,888 24,827 57,504 557 Trade payables 241,630 241,630 – – Miscellaneous other financial liabilities 30,183 30,175 8 – Derivative financial instruments Incoming payments – 5,074 – 4,690 – 384 – Derivative financial instruments Outgoing payments 1,883 1,489 375 19 351,310 293,431 57,503 576 172 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Notional volumes 2018 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 238,300 231,947 6,353 – Notional volumes 2017 € thousands Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Currency forwards 276,489 261,560 14,819 110 fair value of the derivatives are almost completely offset by The change in the hedging reserve and in the cost of hedging changes in the fair value of the cash flows from the underlyings reserve for currency hedges before tax is shown below: (dollar offset method). The change in fair value of the under­ Changes in the fair value of derivatives 2018 lyings and hedges in the financial year therefore match the un­ Changes in the fair value of derivatives 2017 realised profits and losses recorded under equity. As a rule, KSB does not hedge currency risks from the translation of foreign The key foreign currencies in the KSB Group are the US dollar operations into the Group currency (€). Ineffectiveness can arise (USD) and Chinese yuan (CNY). For the currency sensitivity from hedging currency risk if the material measurement paramanalysis, KSB simulates the effects based on the notional voleters of the underlying and hedge no longer match. There was ume of existing foreign exchange derivatives and foreign curno ineffectiveness in the KSB Group in respect of currency rency receivables and liabilities at the reporting date. For the hedges in the 2018 and 2017 financial years. analysis, a 10 % increase (decrease) in the value of the euro versus the other currencies is assumed. In the reporting year, At the reporting date, the notional volume of all currency forthis would have amounted to approximately € 0.4 million (prewards was € 283,300 thousand (previous year: € 276,489 thouvious year: € 1.5 million) for CNY , € 2.4 million (previous sand), and the notional volume of all interest rate derivatives year: € 2.3 million) for USD and € 1.5 million (previous year: was € 0 thousand (previous year: none). The contractual ma€ 1.2 million) for the remaining currencies. turities of payments for currency forwards are as follows: Currency volumes Notional volumes 2018 Notional volumes 2017 Based on the measurement of derivatives, at the reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been The weighted average rate of hedging instruments for the main € 11.2 million lower (higher), with € 8.1 million resulting from foreign currencies was: USD and € 3.1 million from the other currencies. At the previous year’s reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives Hedging of currency risk would have been € 11.7 million lower (higher), with € 9.0 million resulting from USD and € 2.7 million from the other currencies. 2018 2017 Average rate USD /EUR 1.19 1.18 KSB regularly monitors the interest rate risks associated with its Average rate GBP /EUR 0.90 0.90 financing activities. To avoid the negative effects of interest rate Average rate SEK /EUR 10.32 9.78 fluctuations on the international capital markets, KSB concludes interest rate hedges (interest rate swaps) where necessary, generally for long-term loans. These are used exclusively to hedge floating rate loans against rising interest rates. No such transactions were recognised in the financial year. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 173 Notes Changes in the fair value of derivatives 2018 OCI Cash flow Cash flow hedges – hedges – cost of € thousands hedging reserve hedging reserve Currency risk Opening balance at 1 January 1,384 – 770 Effective portion of changes in fair value – 6,272 – 459 Realisation of underlying recognised in income 739 406 Closing balance at 31 December – 4,149 – 823 Changes in the fair value of derivatives 2017 OCI Cash flow Cash flow hedges – hedges – cost of € thousands hedging reserve hedging reserve Currency risk Opening balance at 1 January – 7,560 831 Effective portion of changes in fair value 10,169 – 1,618 Realisation of underlying recognised in income – 1,225 17 Closing balance at 31 December 1,384 – 770 Currency volumes CNY 31 Dec. 2018 CNY 31 Dec. 2017 USD 31 Dec. 2018 USD 31 Dec. 2017 Trade receivables € 53.3 million € 57.5 million € 22.7 million € 22.3 million Trade payables € 49.1 million € 42.1 million € 15.6 million € 10.8 million Balance € 4.2 million € 15.4 million € 7.1 million € 11.5 million As part of the interest rate sensitivity analysis, KSB simulates a the relevant items. The effect of exchange rate changes (based on 50 basis point increase (decrease) in market interest rates and annual average rates) and changes in the consolidated Group on analyses the impact on the floating rate financial instruments. In cash and cash equivalents is presented separately. the reporting year 2018, the net interest balance would have been € 1.5 million (€ 1.0 million) (previous year: € 1.7 million (€ 1.2 Cash flows from operating activities additionally include a “cash million) higher (lower). As in the previous year, there were no flow” subtotal that merely comprises the net profit for the year; interest rate derivatives in the Group in the financial year. depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses as well as reversals of impairment losses; changes in non-current provisions; VII. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS and non-cash effects, for example, of the disposal of fixed assets. This subtotal is combined with the changes in the other operatIn the statement of cash flows, KSB classifies cash flows by oping components of assets (including current financial instruerating, investing and financing activities. Effects of changes in ments) and liabilities to determine cash flows from operating the consolidated Group and in exchange rates are eliminated in 174 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes activities. Only those changes that are recognised in the income In addition to cash flows resulting from equity items (capitalisastatement are taken into account. tion measures and dividend payments), cash flows from financing activities also comprise cash flows arising from changes in finanCash flows from investing activities exclusively reflect cash-­ cial liabilities. effective acquisitions and disposals of investments in intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, non-current financial asIf cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash, this is reportsets, and changes in term deposits with a maturity of more than ed separately. 3 months, including commercial papers. Changes in cash flows from financing activities Cash-effective Not cash-effective Changes resulting from € thousands 1 Jan. 2018 Acquisitions exchange rates 31 Dec. 2018 Non-current liabilities 53,759 – 23,862 – – 623 29,274 Current liabilities 21,285 28,479 – – 1,711 48,053 Lease liabilities 927 335 – – 32 1,230 Total liabilities from financing activities 75,971 4,952 – 2,366 78,557 Dividend payments – – 15,866 – – – Salary conversion (provisions for pensions) – 2,993 – – – Payments for the acquisition of minority interests – – 1,512 – – – Total cash flows from financing activities – – 9,433 – – – Cash-effective Not cash-effective Changes resulting from € thousands 1 Jan. 2017 Acquisitions exchange rates 31 Dec. 2017 Non-current liabilities 57,269 – 2,122 – – 1,388 53,759 Current liabilities 119,082 – 95,491 – – 2,306 21,285 Lease liabilities 1,193 – 223 – – 43 927 Total liabilities from financing activities 177,544 – 97,386 – – 3,737 75,971 Dividend payments – – 12,348 – – – Salary conversion (provisions for pensions) – 4,186 – – – Total cash flows from financing activities – – 105,998 – – – KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 175 Notes VIII. SEGMENT REPORTING Transfer prices for intercompany sales are determined on an arm’s length basis. Segment reporting is prepared in accordance with IFRS 8 based on the management approach and corresponds to the internal There were no discontinued operations in the period under organisational and management structure as well as the reportreview, as in the comparative period of the previous year. ing lines to the Managing Directors as the chief operating decision-makers. In KSB’s matrix organisation, management deThe order intake by segment presents order intake generated cisions are primarily taken on the basis of the key performance with third parties. indicators – order intake, external sales revenue and earnings before finance income / expense and income tax (EBIT) – deterThe sales revenue by segment presents sales revenue generated mined for the Pumps, Valves and Service segments. Reporting with third parties. the relevant assets, number of employees and inter-segment sales revenue for these segments is not part of internal reportThe definition of the earnings indicator of the segments, EBIT, ing. The managers in charge of these segments, which are changed in the first quarter of the 2018 financial year. Until the geared to product groups, have profit and loss responsibility. 2017 year-end, the EBIT was still defined as the earnings before They identify business opportunities across markets and indusinterest and income taxes; since the beginning of 2018, it means tries and assess the options based on current and future market earnings before financial income / expense and income tax. In requirements. They also proactively encourage the development the comments in consolidated financial statements, the new of new products and improvements to the available range of definition of the key indicator applies. Prior-year figures have products. In this context, they work closely with the Sales orbeen restated accordingly. ganisation and Operations. The table shows earnings before finance income / expense and The Pumps segment includes singleand multistage pumps, income tax (EBIT) and consolidated earnings before income submersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. tax (EBT) including non-controlling interests. Applications include process engineering, building services, waSegment reporting ter and waste water transport, energy conversion and solids transport. The EBIT of the Pumps segment includes depreciation and amortisation expense of € 48,802 thousand (previous year: € 46,998 The Valves segment covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diathousand), the EBIT of the Valves segment includes depreciation phragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and and amortisation expense of € 32,292 thousand (previous year: control systems. Applications primarily include process engi€ 9,559 thousand) and the EBIT of the Service segment includes neering, building services, energy conversion and solids transdepreciation and amortisation expense of € 23,397 thousand port. (previous year: € 14,889 thousand). The Service segment covers the installation, commissioning, € 562,147 thousand (previous year: € 588,997 thousand) of the start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of sales revenue presented was generated by the companies based pumps, related systems and valves for all applications; as well in Germany, € 241,476 thousand (previous year: € 228,404 as modular service concepts and system analyses for complete thousand) was generated by the companies based in France, systems. € 188,989 thousand (previous year: € 167,274 thousand) by the companies based in the USA, and € 1,253,336 thousand (previThe companies can be allocated to one or more segments based ous year: € 1,220,283 thousand) by the other Group companies. on their business activities. There were no relationships with individual customers that acThe amounts disclosed for the individual segments have been counted for a material proportion of Group sales revenue. established in compliance with the accounting policies of the underlying consolidated financial statements. At the reporting date, the total non-current assets of the KSB Group amounted to € 611,603 thousand (previous year: € 636,453 thousand), with 214,857 thousand (previous year: 176 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes Segment reporting Order intake Sales revenue EBIT 2017 € thousands 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 (restated) Pumps segment 1,506,248 1,473,628 1,469,443 1,444,392 90,563 79,284 Valves segment 355,618 343,505 340,771 338,849 – 37,373 51 Service segment 441,670 448,179 435,734 421,717 21,512 37,020 Total 2,303,536 2,265,312 2,245,948 2,204,958 74,702 116,355 Finance income / expense – 9,141 – 12,175 Earnings before income tax ( EBT ) 65,561 104,180 € 204,209 thousand) being attributable to the companies based Contingent liabilities in Germany and € 396,746 thousand (previous year: € 432,244 thousand) being attributable to the other Group companies. € thousands 2018 2017 They include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment Liabilities from guarantees 7,760 4,877 and investments accounted for using the equity method; non-curLiabilities from warranties – 482 rent financial instruments and deferred tax assets are not includLiabilities from the granting of security ed. for third-party liabilities 2,897 1,836 10,657 7,195 IX. OTHER DISCLOSURES Contingent liabilities Other financial obligations Contingent liabilities resulting from legal disputes in relation to As in the previous year, there are no purchase price obligations operations amounted to € 23.7 million (previous year: € 56.7 from acquisitions of companies and no payment obligations million). There are no insurance claims to be covered, as in the from capitalisation measures at Group companies. previous year. Significant uncertainties result for KSB in estimating the expected outcome of current court proceedings and the The aggregate purchase obligation for investments amounts to potentially resultant obligations and risks. In this respect, esti€ 12,418 thousand (previous year: € 12,249 thousand). Almost mates are required in particular with regard to the existence of all of the corresponding payments are due in 2019. any obligations and in relation to the probability and amount of an outflow of resources. KSB is not currently expecting a Leases payment obligation for contingent liabilities arising from legal disputes. Operating leases Other contingent liabilities related to tax items (plus potential Minimum lease payments interest) of € 1,536 thousand (previous year: € 1,599 thou€ thousands 2018 2017 sand). At present, there are no indications that any claims will Due within 1 year 20,471 15,696 be asserted under these obligations. Due between 1 and 5 years 38,389 30,069 Due after more than 5 years 4,200 3,941 The Group has contingent liabilities as a result of its investment 63,060 49,706 in associates and joint ventures of € 7,367 thousand (previous year: € 7,426 thousand). Contingent liabilities to other investments total € 393 thousand (previous year: € 963 thousand). The extent to which these will result in a cash outflow depends on the future business performance of the respective company. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 177 Notes Finance leases Minimum lease payments Present values € thousands 2018 2017 2018 2017 Due within 1 year 413 359 404 353 Due between 1 and 5 years 832 579 826 574 Due after more than 5 years – – – – 1,245 938 1,230 927 In the reporting year, leasing payments for operating leases of suant to section 22(1), sentence 1, No. 1 of the 28 Dec. 2007 € 26,640 thousand (previous year: € 27,232 thousand) were version of the WpHG. The voting rights attributed to KSB recognised in the income statement. Stiftung, Stuttgart, were held by Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH, Frankenthal. In 2018 the voting interest of Johannes Future liabilities arising from IT service contracts in force und Jacob Klein GmbH increased to 83.94 %. amount to € 37,534 thousand (previous year: € 41,843 thousand). Of these, € 19,521 (previous year: € 16,190 thousand) Related parties are KSB Management SE as general partner, are due within one year and € 18,013 thousand (previous year: KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, and Kühborth Stiftung GmbH, Stutt€ 25,653 thousand) subsequently in up to five years. gart, each with their direct and indirect interests, joint ventures and associates. These are primarily Johannes und Jacob Klein Operating leases relate primarily to vehicles and real estate. GmbH, Frankenthal, Palatina Versicherungsservice GmbH, Finance leases Frankenthal, and the companies of Abacus alpha GmbH, Frankenthal. Furthermore, related parties also include entities Finance leases relate mostly to real estate, as well as to other controlled or jointly controlled by the Managing Directors of equipment, operating and office equipment. The term of the Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH (JJK), the Managing Direccontract covers most of the useful life of the asset concerned. tors or members of the Administrative Board of KSB Management SE or the Managing Directors or members of the AdvisoResearch and development costs ry Board of Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH. Research and development costs in the year under review amounted to € 49,228 thousand (previous year: € 47,106 The members of the Supervisory Board, the Managing Directhousand). Most of these costs are order-related expenses. tors of KSB Management SE (from 17 January 2018, previously: Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft) and the Related party disclosures members of the Administrative Board of KSB Management SE Pursuant to section 21(1) of the 28 Dec. 2007 version of the are deemed to be related parties of KSB SE & Co. KGaA. In the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trade financial year, three Supervisory Board members held an immaAct], KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, notified us on terial share of interests in our company. 21 May 2008 that its voting interest in KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal / Pfalz exceeded the 75.00 % threshold on 5 May As part of normal business activities, the company maintains 2008 and amounted to 80.24 % (711,453 voting shares) on this business relationships with numerous companies, including afdate. 0.54 % of the voting rights (4,782 voting shares) were filiates that are deemed to be related parties. held directly by KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, and 79.70 % (706,671 voting shares) were attributed to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, pur178 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes The company maintains relationships with affiliates in the folA services agreement for insurances is in place between Palatina lowing areas: Versicherungsservice GmbH and KSB SE & Co. KGaA. Abacus Experten GmbH concluded a number of service agreements Buying/selling assets with KSB SE & Co. KGaA; there is a framework delivery and Sourcing/providing services service agreement with Abacus Resale GmbH for the purchase Usage/transferring usage of assets of returns and the provision of additional associated services. In addition, products were delivered to the company as part of the Balances and transactions between KSB SE & Co. KGaA and normal business activities. KSB SE & Co. KGaA and Abacus its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated alpha GmbH have also concluded service agreements. KSB during the consolidation process and are not explained in furproducts were delivered to airinotec GmbH and Salinnova ther detail. Details regarding transactions between the KSB GmbH as part of normal business activities. KSB purchased Group and other related parties are provided below. spare parts from Salinnova GmbH. The following table shows services provided and used, as well Transactions with related parties are performed at arm’s length. as pending receivables and liabilities owed from and to related parties: In previous years, KSB incurred expenses for services that acServices, receivables and liabilities in dealings with related parties crued to JJK or third parties at the instigation or in the interest of JJK. These expenses were either not passed onto JJK or third The liabilities to KSB Management SE are due in the short term. parties or not passed on at the market rate. Corresponding comAs the legal representative, KSB Management SE provides manpensatory arrangements were made in subsequent years. Subseagement services and, as the general partner, assumes liability quently, facts became known about services that were provided for KSB. It receives reimbursement of its costs as a management at non-market rates to JJK, its investees or third parties at the fee and 4 % of its share capital for acceptance of liability. instigation or in the interest of JJK. The legal review and evaluation of these facts lasted until April 2018. As a result, agreeFurther information on joint ventures and associates (related ments were made in May 2018 that led to payments to KSB of party disclosures) are presented in Section IV . Balance Sheet € 298 thousand in total. In December 2018, JJK made a further Disclosures – Notes No. 5 “Investments accounted for under the payment of € 128 thousand to KSB based on the further legal equity method”, Notes No. 7 “Contract assets, trade receivables review and evaluation of facts relating to relationships with and other financial and non-financial assets” and Notes No. 11 related parties. The payment covered the settlement of VAT back “Liabilities”, and in Section IX. Other Disclosures – Contingent payments for services provided by KSB to JJK or its investees in Liabilities. the period from 2013 to April 2017, related back interest and the legal costs incurred by KSB in connection with such services. The transactions in relation to Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH These back payments were reported under other operating inare based on a rental and services agreement. In addition, Jocome. hannes und Jacob Klein GmbH received dividend payments. Pending balances at the year-end are unsecured, do not accrue Transactions with subsidiaries of Johannes und Jacob Klein interest and are settled by means of payments. No guarantees GmbH comprise transactions with Palatina Versicherungsserwere given or received. The receivables presented here, as in the vice GmbH, Abacus alpha GmbH, Abacus Resale GmbH, Abaprevious year, are not subject to write-downs and no provisions cus Experten GmbH, Salinnova GmbH and airinotec GmbH). have been created for this purpose. There were transactions with associates or joint ventures of KSB with Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH in the financial year. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 179 Notes Services, receivables and liabilities in dealings with related parties Sales of goods Purchases of goods and services and services Receivables Liabilities € thousands 2018 2017 2018 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 KSB Management SE 62 – 5,817 – – – 3,340 – Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH – – – – – – – – KSB Stiftung and Kühborth-Stiftung GmbH – – – – – – – – Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH 222 1,708 23 16 1 4 1 16 Subsidiaries of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH 665 1,448 2,933 2,845 163 182 34 774 Associates / joint ventures of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH – – 142 – – – 1 – Other related parties (corporate ­bodies), excluding “Management ­r emuneration” 24 105 – 16 – 6 – – Disclosures and information on affiliates and investments acManagement remuneration counted for using the equity method provided in other section of these Notes refer to relations covering the supply of products € thousands 31 Dec. 2018 31 Dec. 2017 and services on an arm’s length basis, unless stated otherwise. Short-term benefits (total remuneration) 3,722 1,858 Post-employment benefits 1,929 1,422 Pursuant to IAS 24, the remuneration of key management perOther long-term benefits – – sonnel of the Group must be disclosed. Due to the change in the Termination benefits – – company’s legal form, the contracts of service of the members Share-based payments – – of the Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft were Total 5,651 3,280 cancelled as of 17 January 2018. Since that date, they have been managing KSB’s business as Managing Directors of KSB Management SE. As a result, some of the pension commitments were In the financial year, KSB Management SE received from transferred from KSB to KSB Management SE under Section KSB SE & Co. KGaA reimbursed expenses of € 166 thousand 4(2) No. 1 BetrAVG [Betriebsrentengesetz – German Company for managing KSB’s business in addition to the aforementioned Pensions Act]. The following table presents the relevant inforreimbursement of expenses for remunerating the members of mation for the KSB Group on remuneration paid to the Manthe governing bodies of KSB Management SE. aging Directors and the members of the Administrative Board of KSB Management SE by KSB under an expense reimburseKSB has set aside provisions of € 684 thousand (previous year: ment agreement. € 2,934 thousand) for pension obligations to current Managing Directors of KSB Management SE, and € 41,648 thousand (pre180 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Notes vious year: € 42,202 thousand) for pension obligations to forThe audit fees include costs for the audit of the consolidated mer members of the Board of Management of KSB AG (excludfinancial statements and of the statutory annual financial stateing the Managing Directors of KSB Management SE) and their ments of KSB SE & Co. KGaA and the German subsidiaries surviving dependants as at 31 December 2018; total benefits included in the consolidated financial statements. The fees for paid to these persons amounted to € 2,548 thousand in the year other certification services primarily include attestation services under review (previous year: € 2,422 thousand). outside of the audit of the annual financial statements. The fees for other services mainly include fees for project-specific consulThe short-term benefits paid to members of the Supervisory tancy services. Board amount to € 932 thousand for the 2018 financial year (previous year: € 834 thousand). Provisions of € 482 thousand Use of exemption option were set aside for members of the Supervisory Board at the end KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt of the financial year. and Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal, have made partial use of the exemption provision under section 264(3) of The members of the Supervisory Board, the Managing Directhe HGB. tors and the members of the Administrative Board of the general partner are listed before the information on the proposal Events after the Reporting Period on the appropriation of net retained earnings for KSB SE & Co. There were no events after the end of the financial year that are KGaA. of particular significance for the company’s net assets, financial position and result of operations. Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH WirtschaftsprüfungsGerman Corporate Governance Code gesellschaft, based in Frankfurt am Main with an office in ManThe Managing Directors and the Supervisory Board of KSB SE nheim, were appointed as auditors and group auditors for the & Co. KGaA issued the current Statement of Compliance with 2018 financial year at the Annual General Meeting of KSB SE the recommendations of the Government Commission on the & Co. KGaA on 16 May 2018. Overall, fees (including expensGerman Corporate Governance Code in accordance with seces) amounting to € 2,314 thousand were recognised as expenstion 161 AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] es. Of this, € 1,162 thousand relate to audit services, € 82 thouon 13 March 2019. The Statement of Compliance is published sand to other certification services and € 1,070 thousand to on the KSB web site (www.ksb.com) and has thus been made other services. permanently accessible. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 181 List of Shareholdings List of Shareholdings Affiliates (national and international) Group share of Cons. ActivCapital capital No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % Held by No. 1 Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario Canada H 100.00 100.00 2 KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India P 40.54 40.54 1 49.00 19.86 2 3 KSB MIL Controls Limited, Annamanada India P 51.00 51.00 4 Pofran Sales & Agency Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India S 100.00 40.54 2 5 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 6 Hydroskepi GmbH, Amaroussion (Athens) Greece H 100.00 100.00 7 KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen Germany P 100.00 100.00 8 KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal Germany H 100.00 100.00 9 OOO “ KSB “, Moscow Russia S 100.00 100.00 8 10 KSB , Bombas e Válvulas, SA , Albarraque Portugal S 95.00 95.00 11 KSB Chile S.A., Santiago Chile S 100.00 100.00 12 KSB de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico P 100.00 100.00 13 KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach Luxembourg H 100.00 100.00 14 Aplicaciones Mecánicas Válvulas Industriales, S.A. (AMVI ), Burgos Spain P 100.00 100.00 13 15 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co., Ltd., Dalian China P 100.00 100.00 13 16 KSB Australia Pty Ltd, Bundamba QLD Australia S 100.00 100.00 13 17 KSB New Zealand Limited, Albany / Auckland New Zealand S 100.00 100.00 16 18 KSB Belgium S.A., Bierges-lez-Wavre Belgium S 100.00 100.00 13 19 KSB Service Belgium S.A. / N.V., Bierges-lez-Wavre Belgium SVC 100.00 100.00 18 20 KSB BRASIL LTDA ., Várzea Paulista Brazil P 100.00 100.00 13 95.00 95.00 13 21 KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay (Buenos Aires) Argentina P 5.00 5.00 22 KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands H 100.00 100.00 13 23 DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn The Netherlands P 100.00 100.00 22 24 KSB Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg The Netherlands S 100.00 100.00 22 99.00 99.00 13 25 KSB Italia S.p.A., Milan Italy S 1.00 1.00 26 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz Spain P 100.00 100.00 13 27 KSB Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom S 100.00 100.00 13 28 KSB Middle East FZE , Dubai U.A.E. S 100.00 100.00 13 29 KSB Österreich Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Austria S 100.00 100.00 13 30 KSB -Pompa, Armatür Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Ankara Turkey P 100.00 100.00 13 31 KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario Canada S 100.00 100.00 13 32 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa H 100.00 100.00 13 33 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa P 70.00 70.00 32 34 FORTY FOUR ACTIVIA PARK ( PTY ) LTD , Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa 100.00 70.00 33 35 KSB S.A.S. , Gennevilliers (Paris) France P 100.00 100.00 13 36 KSB POMPES ET ROBINETTERIES S.à.r.l. d'Associé unique, Casablanca Morocco S 100.00 100.00 35 37 KSB Service EITB SITELEC S.A.S. , Montfavet France SVC 100.00 100.00 35 38 KSB Service Energie S.A.S. U., Rambervillers France SVC 100.00 100.00 35 39 KSB SERVICE COTUMER S.A.S. , Déville lès Rouen France SVC 100.00 100.00 38 40 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle S.A.S. , Déville lès Rouen France SVC 100.00 100.00 39 * P = Production, S = Sales, SVC = Service, H = Holding 182 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 List of Shareholdings Group share of Cons. ActivCapital capital No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % Held by No. 41 SPI Energie S.A.S. , La Ravoire France SVC 100.00 100.00 35 42 KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai China P 80.00 80.00 13 43 KSB Verwaltung (Schweiz) AG , Reinach Switzerland 100.00 100.00 13 44 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany H 51.00 51.00 13 45 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA H 100.00 51.00 44 46 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA P 100.00 51.00 45 47 KSB Dubric, Inc., Comstock Park / Michigan USA SVC 100.00 51.00 45 48 KSB , Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA S 100.00 51.00 45 49 KSB , Inc. – Western Division, Bakersfield / California USA SVC 100.00 51.00 45 50 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA SVC 100.00 51.00 45 94.06 94.06 13 51 PT . KSB Indonesia, Cibitung Indonesia P 5.94 5.94 99.00 99.00 51 52 PT . KSB Sales Indonesia, Cibitung Indonesia S 1.00 1.00 53 SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach Luxembourg P 52.85 52.85 13 54 KSB Finland Oy, Kerava Finland S 100.00 100.00 55 KSB Hungary Kft., Budapest Hungary S 100.00 100.00 56 KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul South Korea S 100.00 100.00 57 KSB Limited, Hong Kong China S 100.00 100.00 58 KSB Pump & Valve Technology Service (Tianjin) Co., Ltd, Tianjin China SVC 100.00 100.00 57 59 KSB Norge AS , Ski Norway S 100.00 100.00 60 KSB Polska Sp. z o.o., Ozarow-Mazowiecki Poland S 100.00 100.00 61 KSB Pumps and valves L.t.d., Domžale Slovenia S 100.00 100.00 62 KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok Thailand S 40.00 40.00 63 KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore Pakistan P 58.89 58.89 64 KSB -Pumpy+Armatury s.r.o., koncern, Prague Czech Republic S 100.00 100.00 65 KSB (Schweiz) AG , Oftringen Switzerland S 100.00 100.00 66 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan South Korea P 100.00 100.00 67 KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 68 KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 69 KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd, Singapore Singapore S 100.00 100.00 70 KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Shah Alam Malaysia S 100.00 100.00 69 71 KSB PHILIPPINES , INC ., Makati City Philippines S 100.00 100.00 69 72 KSB Vietnam Co., Ltd, Long Thanh District Vietnam S 100.00 100.00 69 73 KSB Sverige Aktiebolag AB , Gothenburg Sweden S 100.00 100.00 74 KSB Sverige Fastighets AB , Gothenburg Sweden S 100.00 100.00 73 75 PUMPHUSET Sverige AB , Sollentuna Sweden SVC 100.00 100.00 73 76 VM Pumpar AB , Gothenburg Sweden S 100.00 100.00 73 77 KSB Taiwan Co., Ltd., New Taipei City Taiwan S 100.00 100.00 78 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune) India 100.00 100.00 79 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Jiangsu China P 100.00 100.00 80 PMS BERCHEM GmbH, Neuss Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 81 Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 82 REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto Italy P 100.00 100.00 83 Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal Germany SVC 100.00 100.00 * P = Production, S = Sales, SVC = Service, H = Holding KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 183 List of Shareholdings Joint ventures (national and international) Group Net profit / share of loss for the Cons. ActivCapital capital Held by Equity** year** No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % No. € thousands € thousands National 84 Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Pegnitz Germany 50.00 50.00 0 0 International KSB MOTOR TEKNOLOJİLERİ SANAYİ VE TİCARET ANONİM 85 Turkey P 55.00 55.00 30 83 7 Ş­ İRKETİ, Ankara 86 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh Saudi Arabia S 50.00 50.00 13 18,291 2,545 87 KSB Service LLC , Abu Dhabi U.A.E. S 49.00 49.00 7,317 278 Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., 88 China P 45.00 45.00 29,396 775 Ltd., Shanghai Associates (national and international) Group Net profit / share of loss for the Cons. ActivCapital capital Held by Equity** year** No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % No. € thousands € thousands International 89 Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo Italy 25.00 25.00 4,799 2,366 * P = Production, S = Sales, SVC = Service, H = Holding ** Data according to latest annual financial statements under IFRS 184 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 List of Shareholdings Companies not consolidated because of immateriality – Affiliates (national and international) Group Net profit / share of loss for the Cons. ActivCapital capital Held by Equity** year** No. Name and seat Country ity* share in % in % No. € thousands € thousands National 90 FluidPartner GmbH, Stein Germany SVC 51.00 51.00 67 2 – 17 International 98.10 98.10 9 91 IOOO “ KSB BEL “, Minsk Belarus S 403 93 1.90 1.90 8 92 KSB Algérie Eurl, Bordj el Kifane (Alger) Algeria S 100.00 100.00 13 953 137 93 KSB Čerpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o., Bratislava Slovakia S 100.00 100.00 333 43 94 KSB Colombia SAS , Funza (Cundinamarca) Colombia S 100.00 100.00 13 312 94 95 KSB Ltd., Tokyo Japan S 100.00 100.00 – 1,687 88 96 KSB Perú S.A., Lurin Peru S 100.00 100.00 1,263 19 97 KSB Pumpe i Armature d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade Serbia S 100.00 100.00 61 140 20 98 KSB pumpe i armature d.o.o., Rakov Potok Croatia S 100.00 100.00 61 191 24 99 KSB ZAMBIA LIMITED , Kitwe Zambia SVC 60.00 60.00 32 119 47 100 Techni Pompe Service Maroc (TPSM ), Casablanca Morocco SVC 100.00 100.00 36 – 546 –3 101 TOO “ KSB Kazakhstan“, Almaty Kazakhstan S 100.00 100.00 9 169 48 102 TOV “ KSB Ukraine“, Kiev Ukraine S 100.00 100.00 9 410 199 * P = Production, S = Sales, SVC = Service, H = Holding ** Data according to latest annual financial statements under IFRS Prior-period figures KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 185 Supervisory Board Supervisory Board Dr Bernd Flohr, Dipl.-Kfm., Dipl.-Soz., Geislingen Klaus Kühborth, Dipl.-Wirtsch.-Ing., Frankenthal Former Executive Board Member of WMF AG Managing Director of Johannes und Jacob Klein GmbH (Chairman) (formerly Klein Pumpen GmbH) Alois Lautner, Lathe Operator, Kirchenthumbach 1) Monika Kühborth, Editor, Homburg/Saar 3) Deputy Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council Managing Director of Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH of KSB SE & Co. KGaA (Member of the Supervisory Board until 31 January 2018) (Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Birgit Mohme, Industrial Business Management Assistant, Claudia Augustin, Office Management Assistant, Pegnitz Frankenthal 4) Member of the Pegnitz Works Council of 2. Delegate of IG Metall Ludwigshafen/Frankenthal KSB SE & Co. KGaA (Member of the Supervisory Board since 16 May 2018) Thomas Pabst, Dipl.-Ing., Freinsheim Head of Operations Europe Central at KSB SE & Co. KGaA Oswald Bubel, Dipl.-Betriebswirt, Saarbrücken 2) (Member of the Supervisory Board since 16 May 2018) Managing Director of Hager Electro GmbH & Co. KG (Member of the Supervisory Board until 31 January 2018) Prof. Dr.-Ing. Corinna Salander, Stuttgart 5) Head of Railway Vehicle Technology, Stuttgart University Klaus Burchards, Dipl.-Kfm., Stuttgart (Member of the Supervisory Board since 26 February 2018) Independent Auditor Volker Seidel, Electrical and Electronics Installer, Münchberg Arturo Esquinca, Dipl.-Chemieing., Forch, Switzerland 1. Delegate of IG Metall Ostoberfranken Coesia Group, Industrial Process Division, Zurich, Switzerland Head of Business Development Gabriele Sommer, Dipl.-Geol., Wörthsee 6) (Member of the Supervisory Board since 26 February 2018) Global Head of Human Resources TÜV SÜD AG René Klotz, NC Programmer, Frankenthal Dr Hans-Stefan Wiß, Ludwigshafen am Rhein Chairman of the General Works Council of Head of Legal & Compliance, KSB SE & Co. KGaA KSB SE & Co. KGaA and KSB Service GmbH (Member of the Supervisory Board until 16 May 2018) Wolfgang Kormann, Hand Moulder, Pegnitz Chairman of the Group Works Council of KSB SE & Co. KGaA (Member of the Supervisory Board until 16 May 2018) Mandates of KSB Supervisory Board members on the Supervisory Board / Board of Directors of other companies 1) BKK 24, Obernkirchen, Germany 2) KSB Management SE, Frankenthal, Germany (Chair) 3) KSB Management SE, Frankenthal, Germany (Deputy Chair) 4) Deutsche Rentenversicherung Rheinland-Pfalz, Speyer, Germany 5) Bombardier Transportation GmbH, Berlin, Germany Scientific Committee of the Shift2Rail Joint Undertaking, Brussels, Belgium 6) TÜV SÜD Industrie Service GmbH, Munich, Germany TÜV SÜD Auto Service GmbH, Stuttgart, Germany 186 Consolidated Financial Statements KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Legal Representatives Legal Representatives Managing Directors of KSB Management SE (from 17 January 2018, previously: Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft) Dr Stephan Jörg Timmermann, CEO, Augsburg Mandates of the Managing Directors on the Board of Directors of KSB companies Strategy, Human Resources, Communications, Internal Audits, Legal & Compliance, Patents & Trademarks as well as the 1) KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg), South Africa ­Region Europe. He is also the spokesperson for Management. KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India KSB MOTOR TEKNOLOJİLERİ SANAYİ VE TİCARET ANONİM ŞİRKETİ, Ankara, Turkey Dr Stephan Bross, Freinsheim 1) Global Operations, Research / Technology / Complexity, Digital 2) SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China Transformation, Committees and Associations, the Corporate Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Units Pumps and Valves, as well as the Region Asia West and Shanghai, China (supervisor) the Region Middle East / Africa. 3) KSB FINANZ S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg, the Netherlands Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario, Canada Ralf Kannefass, Regensburg 2) KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA Sales and Marketing, Service, Project Management, as well as KSB Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India KSB Shanghai Pump Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China the Region Asia North and the Region Asia South / Pacific. Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA KSB BRASIL LTDA., Várzea Paulista, Brazil Dr Matthias Schmitz, Frankenthal 3) KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh, Saudi Arabia (from 9 July 2018) Taxes, Controlling KSB Group, Finance / Accounting including coordination of Shared Services, Information Technology, ­Purchasing, as well as the Regions America North and America South. Members of the Administrative Board of KSB Management SE Oswald Bubel, Chair, Saarbrücken Mandates on statutory Supervisory Boards Managing Director of Hager Electro GmbH & Co. KG 1) Evonik Nutrition & Care GmbH, Essen, Germany (Chair) Evonik Resource Efficiency GmbH, Essen, Germany (Chair) Evonik Performance Materials GmbH, Essen, Germany (Chair) Monika Kühborth, Deputy Chair, Homburg Managing Director of Klein, Schanzlin & Becker GmbH 2) Bauer AG, Schrobenhausen, Germany Günther Koch, Ludwigshafen Dr Harald Schwager, Speyer 1) Member and Deputy Chairman of the Executive Board of Evonik Industries AG Andrea Teutenberg, Berlin 2) Managing Director of Orange12 GmbH KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Consolidated Financial Statements 187 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB SE & Co. KGaA We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 29 May 2019 that the net retained ­earnings of € 90,178,695.14 of KSB SE & Co. KGaA be appropriated as follows: Proposal for the appropriation of net retained earnings in € Dividend of € 3.00 per ordinary no-par-value share 2,659,845.00 Dividend of € 3.38 per preference no-par-value share 2,922,726.56 Total 5,582,571.56 Carried forward to new account 84,596,123.58 90,178,695.14 Frankenthal, 13 March 2019 KSB Management SE The Managing Directors The annual financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA were prepared in accordance with German ­accounting principles. They are published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal ­Gazette]. The annual financial statements can also be downloaded from our web site at www.ksb.com, or sent in print form on request. 188 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 5 KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 General Information 189 General Information 190 Responsibility Statement 191 Independent Auditor’s Report 203 Glossary 204 Contacts General Information 190 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Responsibility Statement Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Frankenthal, 13 March 2019 KSB Management SE The Managing Directors KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 General Information 191 Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report To KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report AUDIT OPINIONS We have audited the consolidated financial statements of KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal, and its subsidiaries (the Group), which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018, and the statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2018, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we have audited the group management report of KSB SE & Co. KGaA for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2018. In accordance with the German legal requirements, we have not audited the content of those parts of the group management report listed in the “Other Information” section of our auditor’s report. In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in the audit, the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, in all material respects, with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU , and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § [Article] 315e Abs. [paragraph] 1 HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch: German Commercial Code] and, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2018, and of its financial performance for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2018 and the accompanying group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position. In all material respects, this group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Our audit opinion on the group management report does not cover the content of those parts of the group management report listed in the “Other Information” section of our auditor’s report. Pursuant to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz [sentence] 1 HGB, we declare that our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. 192 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report BASIS FOR THE AUDIT OPINIONS We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report in accordance with § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation (No. 537/2014, referred to subsequently as “EU Audit Regulation”) in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] (IDW). Our responsibilities under those requirements and principles are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s report. We are independent of the group entities in accordance with the requirements of European law and German commercial and professional law, and we have fulfilled our other German professional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. In addition, in accordance with Article 10 (2) point (f) of the EU Audit Regulation, we declare that we have not provided non-audit services prohibited under Article 5 (1) of the EU Audit Regulation. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report. KEY AUDIT MATTERS IN THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2018. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our audit opinion thereon; we do not provide a separate audit opinion on these matters. In our view, the matters of most significance in our audit were as follows 1 Recoverability of goodwill 2 Accounting treatment of project orders recognized over time and initial application of IFRS 15 3 Provision for an onerous customer contract 4 Measurement of pension provisions Our presentation of these key audit matters has been structured in each case as follows: 1 Matter and issue 2 Audit approach and findings 3 Reference to further information KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 General Information 193 Independent Auditor’s Report Hereinafter we present the key audit matters: 1 Recoverability of goodwill 1  In the Company’s consolidated financial statements goodwill amounting in total to EUR 44.4 million is reported under the “Intangible assets” balance sheet item. Goodwill is tested for impairment by the Company once a year or when there are indications of impairment to determine any possible need for write-downs. Impairment testing is carried out at the level of the cash-generating units to which the relevant goodwill is allocated. The carrying amount of the relevant cash-generating unit, including goodwill, is compared with the corresponding recoverable amount in the context of the impairment test. The recoverable amount is generally calculated on the basis of the value in use. The present value of the future cash flows from the respective cash-generating unit normally serves as the basis of valuation. The present values are calculated using discounted cash flow models. For this purpose, the adopted medium-term business plan of the Group forms the starting point which is extrapolated based on assumptions about long-term rates of growth. Expectations relating to future market developments and assumptions about the development of macroeconomic factors are also taken into account. The discount rate used is the weighted average cost of capital for the relevant cash-generating unit. The impairment test resulted in the recognition of a write-down amounting to a total of EUR 20.6 million with respect to the cash-generating unit KSB Seil Co. Ltd., Busan/ South Korea and a total of EUR 7.6 million with respect to two cash-generating units of French service entities. The outcome of this valuation is dependent to a large extent on the estimates made by the executive directors with respect to the future cash inflows from the respective cash-generating unit, on the discount rate used, the rate of growth as well as other assumptions, and is therefore subject to considerable uncertainty. Against this background and due to the complex nature of the valuation, this matter was of particular significance in the context of our audit. 2 A  s part of our audit, we assessed the methodology employed for the purposes of performing the impairment test, among other things. After matching the future cash inflows used for the calculation against the adopted medium-term business plan of the Group, we assessed the appropriateness of the calculation, in particular by reconciling it with general and sectorspecific market expectations. We also assessed the appropriate consideration of the costs of Group functions. In the knowledge that even relatively small changes in the discount rate applied can have a material impact on the value of the entity calculated using this method, we focused our testing in particular on the parameters used to determine the discount rate applied, and assessed the calculation model. We evaluated the sensitivity analyses performed by the Company, in order to reflect the uncertainty inherent in the projections. We evaluated that the necessary disclosures were made in the notes relating to cash-generating units for which a reasonably possible change in an assumption would result in the recoverable amount falling below the carrying amount of the cash-generating units including the allocated goodwill. Overall, the measurement inputs and assumptions used by the executive directors are in line with our expectations and are also within the ranges considered by us to be reasonable. 194 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report 3 The Company’s disclosures on goodwill are contained in section IV. “Balance sheet disclosures” note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 2 Accounting treatment of project orders recognized over time and initial application of IFRS 15 1  the Company’s consolidated financial statements revenue totaling EUR 2,245.9 million is In reported in the consolidated income statement. The Company has put in place comprehensive systems and processes throughout the Group for the purposes of properly recognizing and deferring revenue. In this financial year, the initial application of the new accounting standard on revenue recognition (IFRS 15) had a material impact on revenue recognition and deferral. Revenue amounting to EUR 618.4 million is attributable to project orders recognized over time and services. In the case of project orders, the progress of work is estimated on the basis of the ratio of the actual contract costs already incurred to the planned total costs. The initial application of IFRS 15 resulted in an EUR 11.5 million change in revenue (0.6 % of total revenue), which is primarily attributable to a change in the date on which the revenue is recognized. The initial application of IFRS 15 resulted in a significant expansion of disclosure requirements. In addition, in certain areas IFRS 15 necessitate estimates and judgment, the appropriateness of which had to be assessed as part of our audit.  particular, the estimation of the planned total costs of the project orders recognized over In time and the appropriate allocation of costs incurred to the orders are based on the executive directors’ estimates and assumptions. In addition, recognizing and deferring revenue correctly in accordance with the Group-wide application of the new accounting standard IFRS 15 is considered to be complex. Against this background, accounting for revenue was of particular significance during our audit. 2 As part of our audit we assessed the processes and controls implemented by the Group and adapted for IFRS 15 for the recognition of revenue, among others. In addition, with the support of our internal specialists from Capital Markets and Accounting Advisory Services, we assessed the impact of the initial application of IFRS 15 as part of our audit. In connection with the disclosure requirements arising from the initial application of IFRS 15, we assessed among other things the appropriateness of the procedure used to transition to IFRS 15, including the impact analyses conducted within the Group, and assessed the estimates and judgments made by the executive directors with respect to the recognition and deferral of revenue for the various business models of the Group companies. With respect to project orders recognized over time we examined projects on a sample basis to determine whether they met the requirements for recognizing revenue over time in accordance with IFRS 15. We furthermore assessed the calculation of percentage of completion and KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 General Information 195 Independent Auditor’s Report the proportionate recognition of revenue and profit derived from this. In this connection we examined the calculation of the planned total costs as well as the costs actually incurred. We assessed the progress of the respective projects, among other things based on interviews with project managers and by inspecting project documentation. In addition, we assessed the consistency of the methods used to calculate the costs incurred. We also addressed the inherent audit risk in this audit area by means of audit procedures that were consistently applied throughout the Group. We were able to satisfy ourselves that the established systems and processes adapted for IFRS 15, and the controls which are in place are appropriate, and that the estimates and assumptions made by the executive directors are sufficiently documented and substantiated to ensure that revenue is properly recognized in accordance with IFRS 15 as applied for the first time. 3 The Company’s disclosures on the initial application of IFRS 15 can be found in section I. “General information on the group” and its disclosures on revenue from project orders recognized over time can be found in sections III. “Accounting policies”, IV. “Balance sheet disclosures” note 9 and 10 and V. “Income statement disclosures” note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 3 Provision for an onerous customer contract 1 I n the Company’s consolidated financial statements provisions for onerous contracts amounting to EUR 25.9 million are reported under the “Other provisions” balance sheet item in “Current liabilities”. These obligations primarily relate to EUR 17.4 million in provisions for a legacy project in the United Kingdom, of which the completion is scheduled for 2020. The Company assumes that the total costs still to be incurred for the project will exceed the revenues by the amount provided for. The executive directors do not envisage any contract-­ related risks beyond this. The costs still to be incurred are calculated based on project progress to date and estimates of future progress. These assumptions are based on qualified estimates. In our view, this matter was of particular significance in the context of our audit since the recognition and measurement of this significant item in terms of its amount is to a large extent based on estimates and assumptions made by the Company’s executive directors. 196 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report 2 With the knowledge that estimated values bear an increased risk of accounting misstatements and that the measurement decisions made by the executive directors have a direct and significant effect on net profit or loss, we assessed the appropriateness of the carrying amounts using the measurement bases presented to us. We assessed the total project costs based on project calculations and additional information provided by the executive directors and the project manager, among others. We checked the calculation of project loss and assessed its appropriateness. We also verified the measurement of the provision and assessed the measurement parameters used. We were able to satisfy ourselves that the estimates applied and the assumptions made by the executive directors were sufficiently documented and substantiated to justify the recognition and measurement of the provision for the onerous customer contract. 3 The Company’s disclosures on other provisions are contained in section IV. “Balance sheet disclosures”, note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 4 Measurement of pension provisions 1 In the consolidated financial statements of the Company EUR 553.6 million (24.7 % of total assets) relating to long-term pensions and similar obligations are recognized under the “Provisions for pensions and similar obligations” balance sheet item. Obligations under defined benefit plans are measured using the projected unit credit method. This requires assumptions to be made in particular about long-term rates of growth in salaries and pensions, average life expectancy and staff turnover. The discount rate must be determined by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds with matching currencies and consistent maturities. As part of a supplement to the Group works agreement in financial year 2018, the company pension plan was expanded to include a capital option. When benefits become payable, employees have the option to choose between payment in annual installments, payment as a lump sum, or a lifetime annuity. The Company’s executive directors estimated the payment options likely to be chosen by the specific employees, and took this into consideration in measuring the pension provision. Recognizing the capital option reduces the provision in the amount of EUR 46.4 million and is reported under staff costs in the income statement. From our point of view, these matters were of particular significance in the context of our audit because the recognition and measurement of this significant item in terms of its amount are based to a large extent on estimates and assumptions made by the Company’s executive directors. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 General Information 197 Independent Auditor’s Report 2 A  s part of our audit we evaluated the actuarial expert reports obtained and the professional qualifications of the external experts, among others. We also examined the specific features of the actuarial calculations and assessed the numerical data, the actuarial parameters and the valuation methods on which the valuations were based for compliance with the standard and appropriateness, in addition to other procedures. In addition, we analyzed the changes in the obligation and the cost components in accordance with actuarial expert reports in the light of changes occurring in the valuation parameters and the numerical data, and verified their plausibility. We reviewed and assessed the justification for the executive directors’ assumptions with respect to the distribution between lump-sum payment, annuity and installments. On this basis, we checked the calculation of the provisions and their presentation in the consolidated balance sheet and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, among other things. Based on our audit procedures, we were able to satisfy ourselves that the estimates and assumptions made by the executive directors are substantiated and sufficiently documented. 3 The Company’s disclosures on pension provisions are contained in section IV. “Balance sheet disclosures”, note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. OTHER INFORMATION The executive directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the following non-audited parts of the group management report: the statement on corporate governance pursuant to § 289f HGB and § 315d HGB included in section “Corporate Governance Statement” of the group management report the corporate governance report pursuant to No. 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code the separate non-financial report pursuant to § 289b Abs. 3 HGB and § 315b Abs. 3 HGB The other information comprises further the remaining parts of the annual report – excluding cross-references to external information – with the exception of the audited consolidated financial statements, the audited group management report and our auditor’s report. 198 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report do not cover the other information, and consequently we do not express an audit opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements, with the group management report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE SUPERVISORY BOARD FOR THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT The executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material respects, with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315e Abs. 1 HGB and that the consolidated financial statements, in compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and financial performance of the Group. In addition the executive directors are responsible for such internal control as they have determined necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the executive directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern. In addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for the preparation of the group management report that, as a whole, provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated financial statements, complies with German legal requirements, and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. In addition, the executive directors are responsible for such arrangements and measures (systems) as they have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a group management report that is in accordance with the applicable German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for the assertions in the group management report. The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 General Information 199 Independent Auditor’s Report AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OF THE GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and whether the group management report as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies with the German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to issue an auditor’s report that includes our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and in compliance with German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements and this group management report. We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements and of the group management report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit of the consolidated financial statements and of arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the group management report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an audit opinion on the effectiveness of these systems. Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by the executive directors and the reasonableness of estimates made by the executive directors and related disclosures. 200 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report Conclude on the appropriateness of the executive directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective audit opinions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern. Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements present the underlying transactions and events in a manner that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial performance of the Group in compliance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315e Abs. 1 HGB. Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinions. Evaluate the consistency of the group management report with the consolidated financial statements, its conformity with German law, and the view of the Group’s position it provides. Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by the executive directors in the group management report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, the significant assumptions used by the executive directors as a basis for the prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the prospective information from these assumptions. We do not express a separate audit opinion on the prospective information and on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ materially from the prospective information. KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 General Information 201 Independent Auditor’s Report We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with the relevant independence requirements, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, the related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter. 202 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditor’s Report Other legal and regulatory requirements FURTHER INFORMATION PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 10 OF THE EU AUDIT REGULATION We were elected as group auditor by the annual general meeting on 16 May 2018. We were engaged by the supervisory board on 12 November 2018. We have been the group auditor of KSB SE & Co. KGaA, Frankenthal, without interruption since the financial year 2015. We declare that the audit opinions expressed in this auditor’s report are consistent with the additional report to the audit committee pursuant to Article 11 of the EU Audit Regulation (long-form audit report). German public auditor responsible for the engagement The German Public Auditor responsible for the engagement is Dr. Ulrich Störk. Mannheim, 13 March 2019 PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dr. Ulrich Störk Christina Pöpperl Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 General Information 203 Glossary Glossary ABBREVIATIONS KEY CORPORATE AND TECHNICAL TERMS API Additive manufacturing Greenhouse Gas Protocol American Petroleum Institute Previously referred to as rapid proto­ Standard for calculating CO² and typing: a process which enables rapid greenhouse gas emissions HR and cost-effective production of patterns, Abbreviation for Human Resources samples, prototypes, tools and final prodInternational Labour Organisation ucts. (ILO) IMO Specialised United Nations agency responInternational Maritime Organisation, a Augmented Reality Repair sible for drawing up and overseeing inspecialised UN agency The practice of working with data glasses ternational labour standards and social connected to the Internet or a smartstandards ISO 14001 phone app. This technology allows an International standard stipulating requireengineer who is not a pump specialist to Stakeholders ments for environmental management be guided through a step-by-step mainteGroups of people who are directly or insystems nance procedure. directly affected by a company’s activities; KSB ’s main stakeholders are cus­ IMF Business Innovation Lab tomers, suppliers, investors, employees International Monetary Fund Think tank in which a KSB team develand the public. ops future-oriented business models for VDMA the age of digitalisation UK Modern Slavery Act Verband Deutscher Maschinenund British law combating modern slavery, Anlagenbau e.V. CE marking forced labour and human trafficking [Mechanical Engineering Industry The CE marking documents that goods Association] comply with the health and safety requireUN Global Compact ments of the European Union. United Nations initiative for responsible corporate governance based on ten uniErP Directive versal principles Directive of the European Union which sets out the requirements for the environmentally compatible design of energy-­ related products 204 General Information KSB Group / Annual Report 2018 Contacts Contacts EDITOR As a signatory to the United Nations Global KSB SE & Co. KGaA Compact , KSB is committed to endorsing Johann-Klein-Straße 9 the ten principles of the international com­ 67227 Frankenthal, Germany munity in the areas of human rights, labour Tel. +49 6233 86-0 standards, environmental protection and ­anti-corruption. ONLINE NEWS You will find the latest news on the KSB Group at: www.ksb.com Should you need additional information, A print version of the KSB Group’s Annual Report is addi­ please contact: tionally available in German. We also publish German and English versions online in PDF and HTML formats at INVESTOR RELATIONS http://annualreport2018.ksb.com. Dieter Pott Tel. +49 6233 86-2615 E-mail: investor-relations@ksb.com COMMUNICATIONS Wilfried Sauer Tel. +49 6233 86-1140 E-mail: wilfried.sauer@ksb.com CONCEPT AND DESIGN KSB Communications, Frankenthal 3st kommunikation, Mainz PHOTOGRAPHY Matthias Schmiedel, Neu-Ulm (p. 4 / 5, 6) Robert Kwiatek, Frankenthal (p. 8) arche Nova (p. 32) Frank Lehmann, Dirmstein (p. 32) Emanuel Spiegel, Frankenthal (p. 42, 54, 72) Slimane Zoheir, Algerien (p. 48) Pamela Ojeda, Chile (p. 60) Roshan T. Roy, UAE (p. 66) Adobe Stock (p. 64 / 65) Getty Images (p. 36 / 37, 38 / 39, 40 / 41, 44 / 45, 46 / 47, 50 / 51, 52 / 53, 56 / 57, 58 / 59, 62 / 63, 65, 68 / 69, 70 / 71) Shutterstock (cover page 5) KSB Image Library PRINTING Ottweiler Druckerei und Verlag GmbH, Ottweiler Global Presence Backed up by production and assembly sites around the world, as well as a tight-knit sales and service network, KSB staff are always close at hand. Global Presence E UROP E Austria Norway Belarus Poland Belgium Portugal Croatia Russia Czech Republic Serbia Estonia Slovakia Finland Slovenia France Spain Germany Sweden Hungary Switzerland Italy The Netherlands Latvia Ukraine Luxembourg United Kingdom MIDDLE EAST / AF RI CA Algeria Egypt Ghana Kenya Morocco Oman Qatar Saudi Arabia South Africa Turkey United Arab Emirates Zambia AS IA / PACI F I C AM ERI CAS Australia Argentina China Brazil India Canada Indonesia Chile Japan Colombia Kazakhstan Mexico Malaysia Peru New Zealand USA Pakistan Philippines Singapore South Korea Taiwan Thailand KSB production / assembly sites Vietnam KSB sales / service sites Financial Calendar 28 March 2019 Financial press conference 10:00, Frankenthal, Germany 4 April 2019 Invitation to Annual General Meeting 25 April 2019 Interim report January – March 2019 29 May 2019 Annual General Meeting 10:00, Frankenthal, Germany 14 August 2019 Half-year financial report January – June 2019 13 November 2019 Interim report January – September 2019 KSB SE & Co. KGaA 67225 Frankenthal (Germany) www.ksb.com
