About NEXCO EAST TOP COMMITMENT NE X CO E as t A n n u al R e p o r t 2019 CONTENTS ■ TOP COMMITMENT… …………………………………………………………………………… 1 Special Topic ■ Business Areas of NEXCO East… …………………………………………………………… 3 ■ Management Principles ………………………………………………………………………… 4 We connect communities and ■ Company Profile…………………………………………………………………………………… 5 are connected to communities ■ TOP MESSAGE……………………………………………………………………………………… 7 ■ 2025 Long-term Vision and Mid-term Management Plan……………………………… 9 ■ NEXCO East Group Contributions and Initiatives for SDGs………………………… 13 ■ Special Topic… ………………………………………………………………………………… 15 NEXCO East Group engages in the ■ Aspiring to Create Safer and More Comfortable“Best Ways”…………………… 21 Expressways Operation construction, management and operation of ■ For More Convenient and Comfortable Service… …………………………………… 25 expressways, rest areas and other ■ Building the Network and Further Enhancing Functions… ………………………… 29 Business ■ Making Use of Our Technology to Realize Next-generation Expressways… … 33 expressway-related businesses in the ■ For Society and For Employees… ………………………………………………………… 39 eastern part of Japan. ■ Company Profile / Board Members / Organization Chart / List of Expressways Currently Operating / Financial Statements… …………… 42 For the purpose of achieving a sustainable society that extends beyond the framework Rest Area Business of regions, countries, and generations, NEXCO East Group will strive to create the value of “connecting” and will continue to grow as a company that contributes to all stakeholders. Expressway Construction Business NEXCO East Group supports sustainable development goals (SDGs), advancing solutions for social issues through our expressway business, with the purpose of achieving sustainable global development. Technology Development All segments of NEXCO East Group business are contributing to the following SDGs and Overseas Business Chairman President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer Kunie OKAMOTO Toru OBATA Fulfilling Our Social NEXCO East has participated in the“United Nations Global Compact” initiative and has adopted 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, Responsibility labor, the environment, and anticorruption, as stated in this initiative. ● Policy for compiling This NEXCO East Annual Report has been issued to publicize to this report stakeholders details on NEXCO East Group's business involving expressways and its actions toward the development of a sustainable society through business involving expressways. Company Profile This report can be downloaded from the corporate website of NEXCO East. ● Scope of reporting East Nippon Expressway Co., Ltd. (NEXCO East) and its 27 group companies. ● Reporting period From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 (Some activities outside of the specified period are also included.) N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 2 About NEXCO EAST Business Areas of NEXCO East Management Principles of NEXCO East Group ◆ Group Management Principle Special Topic Central Japan East Japan NEXCO East Group will contribute to the revitalization of the entire Japanese economy by supporting the development of regional communities and improving lifestyles by maximizing the effects of expressways. West Japan Regional Expressways Operation Social and Economic Development Boosting the Japanese Shibetsu-Kenbuchi Effects of Expressways Improving the Economy Quality of Life Business Fukagawa-nishi E5A SASSON EXPWY Kitami-nishi Rikubetsu-Shotoshibetsu E5A SHIRIBESHI EXPWY Ashoro Yoichi Otaru Honbetsu E5 DO-O EXPWY ◆ Group Management Vision Numanohata-nishi Rest Area Business E38 DOTO EXPWY NEXCO East Group will create value that connects all stakeholders, working toward a prosperous society transcending regions, countries, and generations, and will grow as a company that Onumakoen contributes to these stakeholders. E4A AOMORI EXPWY Customers Local Communities NEXCO East A company that has ties with local A company that communities and contributes to In operation satisfies its customers. Under construction local development. Aomori Aomori-higashi Other Organizations Expressway ShimodaMomoishi Hachinohe In operation Under construction The Environment Shareholders, Investors NIHONKAI TOHOKU EXPWY NoshiroE7 Interchange A company that responds to Minami An environmentally E4A HACHINOHE EXPWY expectations based on clear Construction Business friendly company. Group Management Interchange （Under construction） management responsibilities. E46 KAMAISHI EXPWY Junction Iwaki Honjo Towa Junction （Under construction） Vision *Names of junctions and interchanges under Yuzawa construction (information valid as of July 1, 2019) Global Society Creating Value That Employees E46 AKITA EXPWY are tentative. Sakataport A company that contributes Connects All Stakeholders A company where each and E7 NIHONKAI TOHOKU EXPWY n E4 TOHOKU EXPWY proactively to the needs of every employee feels sa no C3 TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY ud o global society. the value of his/her work. Technology Development Y E13 TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY E48 YAMAGATA EXPWY Gassan Higashine Arakawa Tainai E7 NIHONKAI TOHOKU EXPWY Rifu-naka Tomiya E51 HIGASHI-KANTO EXPWY Sendaiminami Business Partners The Public E17 KAN-ETSU EXPWY Yonezawaand Overseas Business kita Sound, fair, A sound company that HOKURIKU EXPWY transparent and honest E8 Itako the public can trust. C4 KEN-O EXPWY Misato business relationships. Nerima E65 SHIN-KUKO EXPWY E49 BAN-ETSU EXPWY Akiruno Asahi E18 JOSHIN-ETSU EXPWY ShinTamagawa Kuko ◆ Group Management Policy E6 JOBAN EXPWY Matsuo-Yokoshiba E19 NAGANO EXPWY E83 DAISAN-KEIHIN Koya Fulfilling Our Social Ukishima Saku-Komoro E50 KITA-KANTO EXPWY Totsuka ● NEXCO East Group puts our customers first, and improves the safety, reliability, comfort, and Azumino Hitachinaka Fujisawa Namiki Responsibility Yachiho Heights E82 CHIBA-TOGANE EXPWY convenience of expressways. Hokota E83 YOKOHAMA SHINDO MaboriKisarazuminami E14 KEIYO EXPWY ● NEXCO East Group applies our technologies and know-how in order to contribute to society Kaigan E16 YOKOHAMA-YOKOSUKA EXPWY based on fair and transparent business activities, and provides accurate corporate information. E14 TATEYAMA EXPWY ● NEXCO East Group optimizes our business resources to improve our customer service and CA TOKYO-WAN-AQUA-LINE EXPWY Tomiura corporate value and to establish sound management with a never-ending pursuit of efficiency. ● NEXCO East Group respects the efforts and results of each employee, and values their motivation E14 FUTTSU-TATEYAMA EXPWY and challenging spirit. Company Profile ● NEXCO East Group promotes CSR management that contributes to all stakeholders, including customers, local communities, global society, the public, the environment, shareholders and investors, business partners, and employees. 3 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 4 About NEXCO EAST Com p any Pro file ● NEXCO East Group Business Operations ● Corporate History Special Topic NEXCO East Group engages in the construction, management and operation of expressways, rest areas and other expressway1956 Japan Highway Public Corporation is established. related businesses in the eastern part of Japan*. 1960 Section between Ichinoe Ramp and Funabashi IC on KEIYO EXPWY is opened, becoming the first road in Japan to function as an expressway in the following year. 1971 First expressways in Hokkaido (DO-O EXPWY between Kitahiroshima IC and Chitose IC, and SASSON EXPWY Management business Construction business Rest area operation business Other expressway-related business between Otaru IC and Sapporo-Nishi IC) are opened. 1975 The entire route of the TOHOKU EXPWY is opened. 1985 The entire route of the KAN-ETSU EXPWY is opened. 1988 The entire route of the HOKURIKU EXPWY is opened. 1997 TOKYO-WAN-AQUA-LINE EXPWY is opened. 1999 The entire route on JOSHIN-ETSU EXPWY is opened. Expressways Operation 2001 ETC service is started. 2005 Privatization of Japan Highway Public Corporation and establishment of the East Nippon Expressway (Bicycle parking lot operation business) Company Limited. 2006 The brand name, NEXCO East, is chosen. Business Expressway businesses Related businesses 2007 The customer center is established. 2008 Commercial facilities flagship brand Pasar Makuhari is opened. 2009 India Liaison Office is established. ● Company Profile 2010 First Themed Area,“Yorii Rest Area: The Little Prince”is opened. 2015 The entire route of the JOBAN EXPWY is opened. Trade Name East Nippon Expressway Company Limited The Expressway Renewal Project is launched. Rest Area Business Representative Toru Obata, President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer 2017 The section of the KEN-O EXPWY between Sakai-Koga IC and Tsukuba-chuo IC is opened, linking the TOMEI EXPWY and TATEYAMA EXPWY Date of Establishment October 1, 2005 2018 The section of the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY between Misato-minami IC and Koya JCT is opened. Capital 52.5 billion yen Number of Employees 2,283 (As of March 31, 2019, the figure excludes employees from our company assigned to outside the company and includes employees from outside the company assigned to our company) ● Framework of Expressway Business Operation On October 1, 2005, following the privatization of Japan Highway Public Corporation, which had been established in 1956, along with other public highway corporations, Japan Expressway Holding and Debt Repayment Agency (hereinafter referred Length of roads in service 3,943km Expressway to as the“Expressway Agency”) and six expressway companies were established. Interchanges 443 Smart interchanges 55 Metropolitan Expressway Hanshin Expressway Honshu-Shikoku Construction Business Rest areas and parking areas 328 (of which 199 have commercial facilities, 129 do not) Japan Highway Public Corporation Public Corporation Public Corporation Bridge Authority Quick charging stations 149 *Expected to merge with NEXCO West when its 〈Companies〉Construction and operation of expressways and the collection of tolls business becomes stabilized NEXCO NEXCO NEXCO Metropolitan Hanshin ExpressHonshu-Shikoku Bridge East Central West Expressway Co., Ltd. way Co., Ltd. Expressway Co., Ltd. Technology Development 〈Expressway Agency〉Administration of expressways and the repayment of debts ● Major Indexes Independent Administrative Institution: Japan Expressway Holding and Debt Repayment Agency and Overseas Business NEXCO East constructs and upgrades expressways in the Traﬃc volume Expressway business operating revenue Total sales revenue of commercial facilities Expressway NEXCO (unit: 10,000 vehicles/day) (in billions of JPY) (in billions of JPY) eastern Japan area and transfers the assets and debts to Agency East 295 859.9 the Expressway Agency, while at the same time operating 286 289 822.5 837.6 the expressway assets leased from the Expressway Agency Transfer of expressway Construction, for which a lease fee is paid through the management and upgrading, etc. Fulfilling Our Social assets and debts 38.1 45.5 54.9 operation of the leased assets. Holding The Expressway Law specifies that tolls from expressways expressway assets Leasing of Responsibility shall not generate profit. The collected tolls are used for expressway assets Funds raised the necessary operation and maintenance of expressways and the provision of various services, as well as for Repayment Payment of lease fee Operation 103.2 101.6 102.0 paying back debt by means of the lease fee paid to the of debts Toll collection Expressway Agency. Customers Company Profile 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) ■ Dining & product vending ■ Gas station Investors and financial institutions, etc. * Hokkaido, Tohoku, Kanto, Niigata prefecture, and part of Nagano prefecture 5 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 6 About NEXCO EAST TO P M E S SA G E Contributing to society and areas and parking areas for their recovery activities. As a company with operations in the eastern region joining us again, while also taking measures to increase positions that provide opportunities for both men and Special Topic of Japan, we are striving to contribute to further women, including the introduction of flexible working creating a virtuous cycle of recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake. We hours. are collaborating with the people in Tohoku, who are Since this April, the Act Related to Workstyle Reforms sustainable growth making great efforts for their region, through expanding the JOBAN EXPWY to 4 lanes and promoting tourism is being phased in. At NEXCO East Group, this is year zero for our workstyle reforms, and we want to that will draw people to Tohoku. The entire company raise awareness of management in the role of creating will continue to work together for the recovery. schemes for maintaining work-life balance and assure From a CSR perspective, we place great importance healthy lifestyles of our employees, and we want those Expressways Operation on support of the recovery work from the Great East schemes to become ingrained into worksite practices. Japan Earthquake, cooperating in events, such as the Yet, amidst these efforts, there could be employees Tohoku Kizuna Festival. who find that work means everything to them, so Business they do not want to be restricted in how they work – therefore, modifying the idea, we think it is important NEXCO East Group from Here On to fulfil our mission within the framework of the law and social rules, but raise productivity in so doing. New Challenges Together with Society Rest Area Business Some 50 years have passed since the expressways President and were first built, so an urgent challenge involves dealing For a company to remain in business, it is vital to have Chief Executive Officer with aging expressways. What is more, aging is rapidly technical prowess, but, more importantly, the company Toru OBATA speeding up due to the tendency for more trucks to use also must function efficiently and correctly, to earn the expressways and the impact of anti-freezing agents, acclaim from society for its results. Japan originally used because many of the areas we operate in are had the precept of“Omi merchant's“ Sanpo Yoshi ” susceptible to heavy snowfalls and ice. Therefore, (Sanpo means three sides and Yoshi means good), as a while ensuring the safety and security of our customers business culture, and it has been accepted by people. by continuing daily maintenance work, we have “Three”indicates“seller” ,“buyer” , and“public” , and Expressway launched a massive project, the Expressway Renewal the concept of the precept is that good business will can be expected to stimulate promotion of regional Project, which is a long-term initiative stretching to The Social Mission of NEXCO East Group benefit whole society, as well as satisfy the seller economies, including the attraction of industries and FY2030. This kind of project is a new experience for and buyer. Thus, contributing to society and being Construction Business primary industries. our group – new fields, including the development of Fulfilling Social Responsibility via Business acknowledged for that contribution is the honor and Also, we are developing our rest area and parking area technologies for inspecting and maintaining, that we Activities ethical duty of each employee. NEXCO East Group infrastructures from the perspective of comfort and will challenge. The upkeep and operation of transport infrastructures, considers itself as a company within society and will convenience. On July 29, 2019, moving away from starting with roads, railways and airways, are public continue to contribute to the growth of society. Tokyo slightly, TOHOKU EXPWY Hasuda Rest Area services. Notably, in the case of expressways, 24 hours (inbound) was opened as one of the biggest rest areas Greater Productivity is the Keyword Technology Development a day, 365 days of the year, safe, secure, comfortable under the jurisdiction of East Japan. The commercial Amidst a decreasing birthrate and aging population and convenient service must be provided – this is the facilities in this inbound rest area are the seventh set that are leading to a reduced working age population, mission of NEXCO East Group, and it will not change of facilities we have opened as“Pasars,”providing one of the issues we are faced by is:“how do we in the next ten or 20 years to come. We are fulfilling and Overseas Business amazing services to the public. From here on too, we secure our workforce?”Yet, for vehicles and roads, etc., our corporate social responsibilities (CSR) based on the not only want to encourage expressway users but also there are some amazing technological innovations in three pillars of“vitalization of regional communities,” the locals of communities to use our rest areas and the areas of hardware technology as well as software “promotion of traffic safety” and “environmental parking areas – thus, to that end, we want to contribute technology, such as AI and ICT. And, at NEXCO East preservation.”And, as our business activities underpin to the vitalization of regional communities by enabling Group, we too need to change with the times, in order public service, we believe that those very activities local communities to sell specialties as well as local to take on board the technologies we can make use of. Fulfilling Our Social fulfil our CSR. fish and local fruits & vegetables at our rest areas and Under such circumstances, we have started an Whereas, regarding our initiatives for SDGs, parking areas. initiative called SMH (Smart Maintenance Highway). we support them, and we have made it known Responsibility SMH is a technical work system promoting the use of publicly that we have revised the current Mid-Term Creating an Infrastructure for Disaster robots for inspections, compiling results in a database, Management Plan to apply SDGs to the action plans Response and Recovery Support and using AI and other technologies to support for each of our business operations. In recent years, natural disaster risks, including management of the infrastructure. earthquakes, typhoons and torrential rain, are Further, we will promote the optimization of work by Anticipating the Futures of Regions increasing. At the NEXCO East Group, besides making use of technologies such as robotic process We are continuing to focus on improvements to the regularly engaging in disaster prevention training to automation (RPA) to automate basic office work in Company Profile expressway network to eliminate missing links. And, respond swiftly at times of disaster, we collaborate with fields like accounting and on-site assets management. thanks to work on the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY, the relevant authorities to enable the fire department, In terms of securing a workforce, we will encourage the volume of traffic flowing into the heart of the city police and self-defence forces, etc., to make use of rest veteran employees to continue working for us or is being optimized, while work on other routes also 7 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 8 About NEXCO EAST Challenging Ourselves and Making Rapid Progress to Realize the Future Ideal State of NEXCO East 〜2025 Long-term Vision and Mid-term Management Plan〜 ◆ Long-term Vision 2025 Special Topic NEXCO East Group has formulated “Long-term Vision 2025” to enhance the corporate value of the Group and continuously fulfill our mission. This is a summary of what we would like to achieve by 2025, 20 years after the establishment of NEXCO East. A company that is trusted by the public: Reliable Expressways Operation By placing safety and reliability as top priorities of the company, NEXCO East Group will be a model company for infrastructure management companies which take action for the realization of a sustainable society with a pioneering spirit, including the secure maintenance of aging expressways. Business A company that is needed by customers: Required NEXCO East Group will always pursue the provision of the largest satisfaction to our customers with a minimum cost and offer new value to customers by utilizing information and communication technologies, etc. Rest Area Business A company that lives up to the expectations of local communities: Responsible NEXCO East Group will establish a strong relationship with local communities, contribute to local communities through the use of our expressway network and assets, and continuously take a variety of actions that lead to co-existence and co-prosperity with local communities. Expressway Renewal Project (TOHOKU EXPWY between Fukushima-Nishi IC and Fukushima JCT) A company that receives recognition from international society: Recognized By utilizing our high technical capabilities, NEXCO East Group will establish relationships of mutual trust with overseas stakeholders and accumulate expertise on overseas businesses to meet the needs of Expressway international society. A company whose employees realize the value of their work: Rewarding Construction Business NEXCO East Group will have an established corporate culture in which creating the value of connection through our business brings employees satisfaction at work. （Formulated in May 2014） Technology Development ◆ Partial Revision of Mid-term Management Plan (FY2017-FY2020) Opening ceremony for SHIRIBESHI EXPWY between Yoichi IC and Otaru JCT KAN-ETSU EXPWY Akagi-kogen Rest Area (inbound) opened after renewal We have revised some parts of the Mid-term Management Plan as it approaches the halfway stage in 2019, with the and Overseas Business (December 2018) project (April 2018) following being the main revisions. In 2017, NEXCO East Group formulated its Mid-term Management (1) Response to Additional Business Plan (FY2017-FY2020) identifying the four years from FY2017 until ■ Construction of four lanes on KEN-O EXPWY between Kuki Shiraoka JCT and Daiei JCT FY2020 as“a period for challenging themselves and making rapid progress to realize the future ideal state of the company”in order ■ Lane-adding work for DOTO EXPWY, AKITA EXPWY, BAN-ETSU EXPWY and FUTTSU-TATEYAMA EXPWY Fulfilling Our Social to achieve the 2025 Long-term Vision of the group, and, as such, the (2) Promotion of Further Safety and Security Measures group united to implement the plan based on five core policies to ■ Promotion measures to prevent head-on collisions in sections where there is two-way traffic fulfill our social mission. Responsibility Approaching the halfway mark of the Mid-term Management Plan, ■ Promotion of efforts to reduce accidents during periods when traffic restrictions are being applied we have revised some aspects of the plan in order to appropriately (3) Strengthening of Measures to Prevent and/or Reduce Impact of Damage at Times of Major Natural Disasters accommodate new business and business environment changes that have come about since the plan was formulated. ■ Provision of measures to keep roads open during heavy snow Thus, in the remaining two years of the Mid-term Management Plan, ■ Strengthening of monitoring system for tunnel fires by aspiring to create value that“connects”all stakeholders, as laid (4) Changing Business Environment to Contribute to Response to Establishment of Act Related to Workstyle Company Profile out in the group’ s Management Vision, and to grow as a corporate group contributing to every stakeholder, NEXCO East Group is Representative Director and Senior Executive Officer Reforms and SDGs (suggested by UN) promoting the plan in a united fashion. Corporate Strategy Division ■ Implementation of workstyle reforms (employee awareness reforms, appropriate management of working Seigo SAKAKI hours, etc.) ■ Contribute to the establishment of SDGs via our business 9 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 10 About NEXCO EAST Mid-term Management Plan （from FY2017 to FY2020） ◆ Overall Perspective 〜5 Basic Policies with Priority Actions〜 ◆ Financial Projections ●Expressway Business Special Topic ❶ Safe, Reliable, Comfortable, and Convenient expressway services Profit & loss plan ● Provide expressway services that customers can use with ease by making safety the top priority Based on the agreement with the Japan *1 ● Promote the Expressway Renewal Project Expressway Holding and Debt Repayment Toll income: Approx. 3.1 trillion yen ● Realize Smart Maintenance Highway (SMH) and ensure the soundness of assets Total from FY2017 Agency (Expressway Agency), NEXCO East to FY2020 Rent for ● Reinforce disaster prevention and lessen the impacts of disasters *1 steadily engages in the necessary management 2.3 trillion yen Expressways Operation ● Minimize the number of traffic accidents expressway Approx. ● Reduce violations of Cabinet orders regarding oversized/overloaded vehicles of expressways and the payment of rent for assets: ● Improve measures against snow and ice expressway assets from the expressway toll Administrative *1 ● Steadily promote expressway network development and strengthen the functions of the expressway usage in a smart manner income that we receive from our customers, so Approx. 800 billion yen Business expenses, etc.: ● Develop expressway services that are comfortable and convenient based on the needs of customers that the Expressway Agency can use it to pay ● Ensure smooth traffic flows back its debts. *1 Planned figures (excluding tax) in the agreement that was concluded (revised) ● Enhance the information services, such as routes selection (active use of ETC 2.0 data) with the Expressway Agency on March 26, 2019 ● Develop toll services that are efficient and highly convenient Investment plan ● Implement new constructions/extensions/aging renewal of commercial facilities in a systematic manner Regarding the assets of the Expressway ● Maintain and strengthen gas station operation system, and establish quick charge stations Rest Area Business Agency*2, based on the agreement with them, Total from FY2017 ● Prioritize safety, pursue quality, cost and productivity, and construct easy-to-maintain expressways NEXCO East Group has an approximately to FY2020 Agency assets*2 : Approx. 2.2 trillion yen 2.2 trillion yen investment plan for new construction, repair, and reconstruction projects for the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY Company assets : Approx. 120 billion yen ❷ Commitment to regional communities, ❸ Development of technologies for society (between Misato Minami and Koya JCT, and between Oizumi JCT and Chuo JCT), Inbound tourists and Environmental ● Develop new technology leading to sophisticatYOKOHAMA KANJO-MINAMI EXPWY *2 Expressway assets that are scheduled for hand-over to the Expressway Agency conservation after construction completion ed and labor-saving business with a safety-first (between Kamariya JCT and Totsuka), and ● Contribute to regional communities mindset (via the active use of ICT, AI, and IoT expanding the JOBAN EXPWY to 4 lanes. Expressway ● Promote tourism and help out with the restoration big data) For the assets of group companies, project in the affected area of the Great East Ja● Realize SMH, and develop technology for the advanceapproximately 120 billion yen in investments pan Earthquake ment of traffic safety and measures against snow and is projected for the development of toll Construction Business ● Develop expressways in collaboration with regions ice collection machines and ETC facilities as well ● Technically support bodies such as local govern● Make use of innovative vehicle technologies (consider as renewal of aging roads. ments the implementation of auto-driving technology) ● Prepare and support for the inbound tourists ef● Establish to utilize the NEXCO-East Technology Center for Development & Education for the promotion of techfected by hosting the Olympic Games nology improvement ● Encourage environmental conservation ●Expressway-related Business Technology Development Profit & loss plan NEXCO East Group enhances its customer ❹ ❺ and Overseas Business Effort to increase profits in expressway-related Building group-wide management capability services and corporate values via the optimum Operating income businesses use of management resources, and strengthens (consolidated) ● Pursuit advanced group-wide management earning capacities by streamlining management, Results of FY2016: 1.8 billion yen ● Improve customer service and corporate value ● Internal controls, employees’retention/training, aiming to reach 2.9 billion yen in operating through optimal use of management resources productivity improvements, etc income in the last year of the plan (FY2020). Plan for FY2020: 2.9 billion yen as well as strengthen profitability by stream● Further strengthen/enhance internal control system Fulfilling Our Social lining management ● Invest in employee retention and personnel development, Investment plan and promote an environment where employees can feel 《Rest area business》 We are scheduling investments of approximately their work is worth doing and have a sense of satisfaction ● Introduce measures to make rest areas more attrarc44 billion yen in the assets of expresswayResponsibility ● Improve on-site response capability for unexpected tive incidents on the expressways based on the establishrelated businesses, such as the establishment ● Efficiently operate commercial facilities ment and utilization of the the NEXCO-East Technoloof new commercial facilities, extension and Total from FY2017 gy Center for Development & Education remodeling of existing commercial facilities, to FY2020 《Other businesses》 Support the“E-shokuba creation campaign ”(employand renewal of aging facilities, as well as the ● Increase profits in existing business projects 44 billion yen ● ees’health-oriented corporate management) and Company assets: Approx. ● Make use of unused lands establishment of the NEXCO-East Technology “Women’ s Participation and Advancement in the Work● Create innovative business Center for Development & Education and the place” Promote overseas business Company Profile replacement of IT systems. ● ● Promote business optimization and enhance productivity ● Increase corporate brand equity *Please refer to p.6 for an outline of expressway business scheme. 11 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 12 About NEXCO EAST NEXCO East Group Contributions and Initiatives for SDGs Group Management Principles At NEXCO East Group, we have taken a look at our business in comparison to SDGs, goals common to international societies, and have set ourselves some gaols that will enable us to contribute to society through our businesses. NEXCO East Group will contribute to the revitalization of the entire Japanese Hence, through our business, we will make a contribution in the following SDGs: Goal 3 “SOUND HEALTH AND WELL-BEING,” Goal 8 “DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH,” Goal 9 “INDUSTRY INNOVATION AND economy by supporting the development of regional communities and INFRASTRUCTURE” and Goal 11 “SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES.” The chart shows the goals we will Special Topic contribute to through our various businesses. improving lifestyles by maximizing the eﬀects of expressways. Furthermore, in all our business activities, we will place great importance on caring for our stakeholders and partnerships (Goal 17). 5 Basic Policies of SDGs Related SDGs Related to Mid-term Important Plans Important Goals Initiatives for Mid-term Management Plan (FY2017-FY2020) to All Aspects Individual Management Plan of Business Initiatives ● Provide expressway services that customers can use with ease by making safety the Promote the Expressway Renewal Project, advancing initiatives for large-scale Promote measures for aging renewal or large-scale repairs on necessary constructions, starting with bridges. top priority facilities and Expressway Promote the Expressway Renewal Project Expressways Operation Renewal Project Realize Smart Maintenance Highway (SMH) and ensure the soundness of assets Ensure sound roads, providing road surfaces that are comfortable to travel on. Reinforce disaster prevention and lessen the impacts of disasters Minimize the number of traﬃc accidents Reduce violations of Cabinet orders regarding oversized/overloaded vehicles Implement traﬃc safety measures, reducing casualty and fatality accident rates. Business Reduce traﬃc accidents and Contributing to Social Challenges Enhancing Sustainable Corporate Value Improve measures against snow and ice ● Steadily promote expressway network development and strengthen the traﬃc congestion Safe, Reliable, Take measures to prevent traﬃc congestion such as additional lane, and work to functions of the expressway usage in a smart manner reduce the loss time of users due to traﬃc congestion Comfortable, ● Develop expressway services that are comfortable and convenient based on the and Convenient needs of customers Deal with adverse weather conditions such as snow and Build expressways that cope well with snow, reducing road closure time during expressway Ensure smooth traﬃc ﬂows ice winter. Enhance the information services, such as routes selection (active use of ETC services 2.0 data) Rest Area Business Develop toll services that are eﬃcient and highly convenient Improve peripheral expressways surrounding Tokyo Metropolitan expressway Implement new constructions/extensions/aging renewal of commercial facilities network and expressways in regional areas to eliminate any missing links in in a systematic manner network. Maintain and strengthen gas station operation system, and establish quick Develop network and charge stations strengthen capabilities Promote road expansion to 4 lanes, enhancing safety and comfort. ● Prioritize safety, pursue quality, cost and productivity, and construct easy-to-maintain expressways Strengthen expressway capabilities by developing additional junctions, interchanges, smart interchanges, and new rest areas and parking areas. ● Contribute to regional communities Work toward ﬁnding solutions for social issues in ﬁelds with strong aﬃnities to Commitment to Contribute to solutions for Promote tourism and help out with the restoration project in the aﬀected area expressway business (activation of regional communities, promotion of traﬃc regional social issues Expressway of the Great East Japan Earthquake safety, environmental preservation). communities, Develop expressways in collaboration with regions Inbound tourists Technically support bodies such as local governments and ● Prepare and support for the inbound tourists eﬀected by hosting the Olympic Construction Business Environmental Games Preserve the environment Promote preservation of Earth environment, recycling society and preservation of conservation ● Encourage environmental conservation roadside environments. Mechanicalize inspections and quantify damage as technical developments to ● Develop new technology leading to sophisticated and labor-saving business with a realize SMH. safety-ﬁrst mindset (via the active use of ICT, AI, and IoT big data) Development of Realize SMH, and develop technology for the advancement of traﬃc safety and measures against snow and ice Prevent major accidents, such as head-on collisions, on provisional two-lane road technologies for Innovate Technology Development Make use of innovative vehicle technologies (consider the implementation of sections as a technical development to contribute to traﬃc safety. society auto-driving technology) Establish to utilize the NEXCO-East Technology Center for Development & Make use of the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System on snowplows as a technical Education for the promotion of technology improvement development to raise level of snow and ice countermeasures. and Overseas Business ● Improve customer service and corporate value through optimal use of management resources as well as strengthen proﬁtability by streamlining management 《Rest area business》 Boost earning power in Eﬃciently operate commercial facilities at rest areas and parking areas to boost Eﬀort to increase Introduce measures to make rest areas more attrarctive business such as rest areas earning power. proﬁts in Eﬃciently operate commercial facilities and parking areas Also, create innovative business, and develop and expand services. expressway-relat 《Other businesses》 Increase proﬁts in existing business projects Fulfilling Our Social ed businesses Make use of unused lands Create innovative business Promote overseas business Develop overseas business Market the NEXCO East group technologies in overseas countries. Responsibility ● Pursuit advanced group-wide management The group will unite to provide safe, secure, comfortable and convenient road ● Internal controls, employees retention/training, productivity improvements, etc Provide Customer spaces for customers, improving travel comfort and providing a full array of rest Further strengthen/enhance internal control system Satisfaction (CS) facilities, in order to raise the level of satisfaction experienced by customers. Invest in employee retention and personnel development, and promote an environment where employees can feel their work is worth doing and have a Building sense of satisfaction Further strengthen and substantiate the internal controls system, promoting risk group-wide Improve on-site response capability for unexpected incidents on the Provide governance management and compliance to laws, which will involve everyone in the group management expressways based on the establishment and utilization of the the NEXCO-East uniting to observe compliance. Company Profile capability Technology Center for Development & Education Support the E-shokuba creation campaign (employees health-oriented corporate management) and Women s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace Make further improvements Promote creation of environment that enables employees to feel the job is worth Promote business optimization and enhance productivity via workstyle reforms doing and have a sense of satisfaction in doing it. Increase corporate brand equity 13 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 14 Special Topic About NEXCO EAST ■ Establishment of Sustainable Long-term Expressway Maintenance ■ Innovating via the Introduction of Smart Maintenance Highway (SMH) (Expressway Renewal Project) Special Topic SMH is a project that will make use of cutting-edge propelled measuring vehicles as well as inputting Of the 3,940 km or so of expressway operated by with other expressway companies, was named the technologies, such as ICT and robotics, to provide inspection records into mobile personal computers, NEXCO East Group, some 1,760 km of it has been “Expressway Renewal Project,” and a logo was long-term“safety and security”on our expressways NEXCO East Group will use Business Intelligence (BI) in common use for approximately 30 to 50 years, devised in order to enhance public understanding as well as dramatically enhancing productivity in tools to promote the standardization of decisionwhile the number of large-sized vehicles using about the necessity of the large-scale renewal and expressway assets management. making processes. Apart from these, we will make expressways is tending to increase every year. repair work entailed in the project. In the first stage (to be introduced in 2020), SMH use of cutting-edge technologies, including all-round Moreover, as shown by the amount of anti-freezing In the near future, as the Expressway Renewal will be put to use on the theme of “structure road imaging and mixed reality (MR) technology. agent used―which reaches approximately 160,000 Project gets into full swing, each region will need inspections,”which is the base of infrastructure Hence, from 2020, work process reforms will start in Expressways Operation tons a year, about 70% of NEXCO East's roads pass to regulate large-scale road traffic restrictions, management. While achieving efficiency in inspection infrastructure management with the aim of providing through snowy and cold regions. This means that including road closing and implementing twowork by introducing inspection support tools like a sustainable expressway network. many of the bridges and tunnels located in NEXCO way traffic. Thus, NEXCO East Group is striving to Business high-resolution cameras, inspection robots and selfEast's area are in a severe environment, and as minimize the impact on customers as we undertake a result, significant changes are occurring in the renewal work by employing innovative technologies conditions of those structures. to curtail the time required in construction periods With these matters in mind, in FY2015, NEXCO and making use of a mobile barrier system (Road Introducing SMH Development Tools that Make the Most of ICT Technologies East Group launched a large-scale project to renew Zipper® System) that enables operation of lanes to Rest Area Business and repair expressway structures to ensure that suit traffic volume. NEXCO East Group is therefore expressways could continue to play their role as vital engaging in publicity activities in cooperation lifelines in Japan that support social infrastructure in with other expressway companies to make sure the areas of economics, communities, medicine, and that the purpose and need for this project is fully disaster prevention. This project, which is run jointly understood by customers. Expressway Construction Business Road-eye ® Mounted on a vehicle that travels at high speed (no need for traffic restrictions), Technology Development this sensor system enables highly accurate measuring of damage on road surfaces and tunnel lining surfaces. and Overseas Business Activities of the Expressway Renewal Project Replacing slabs* Fulfilling Our Social Old slabs are replaced with Responsibility more durable concrete slabs. *Slabs are parts of bridge structures that directly support the weight of vehicles, etc., passing over the bridge and transmit the load to the girders. Company Profile Mobile PC Device Mobile PC Inspection Support System When conducting on-site inspections, this system can be used to input data based on the history of the site. Furthermore, as there is no need to make Slab replacement work records after on-site inspections, productivity is improved. 15 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 16 Special Topic About NEXCO EAST ■ Benefits of Opening Ring Road Around Tokyo ■ Regional Medical Care Strengthened Thanks to Opening of SHIRIBESHI EXPWY (TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY between Misato-minami IC and Koya JCT) between Yoichi IC and Otaru JCT Special Topic Traffic between Saitama prefecture and Chiba to the opening of the ring road and the expanding With the opening of SHIRIBESHI EXPWY between reduced, strengthening the emergency medical prefecture (TOHOKU EXPWY ⇔ HIGASHI-KANTO the number of lanes to four between Horikiri JCT Yoichi IC and Otaru JCT on December 8, 2018, treatment service in the Shiribeshi region, which EXPWY) used go via the heart of Tokyo (SHUTO and Kosuge JCT, the traffic congestion loss time of the time required to carry critically ill patients to will hopefully contribute to safe, secure living in the EXPWY), but, with the opening of the ring road the SHUTO EXPWY inside the central ring(including a tertiary emergency medical facility has been area. (between Misato-minami IC and Koya JCT) on June on the Central Circular Route) decreased by about 2, 2018, approximately 80% of traffic has switched 30%. over to the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY. In addition, due Expressways Operation Areas now 60 minutes from tertiary emergency medical facility after completion of E5A section of SHIRIBESHI EXPWY Business The following shows the routes before and after opening as well as changes to traffic congestion Rest Area Business Expressway Construction Business Technology Development and Overseas Business Required Travel Time to Teine Keijinkai Hospital in Sapporo and Changes to Lifesaving Rate Fulfilling Our Social Reduced by Reduced by Before After 70 15 minutes 65 13 minutes 100％ opening opening 61 Responsibility Required travel time (minutes) Lifesaving rate (%) for 60 52 90％ 50 46 40 80％ Some 14% acute myocardial infarction improvement 71.0％ 30 Some 12% 65.5％ 70％ improvement Material: 2015 study on organization of road 20 traffic data on national highways: Company Profile 57.2％ 60％ “improvements to emergency 10 53.5％ medical treatment due to road 0 50％ construction”(Japan Society of Photographed on September 26, 2017 Photographed on July 19, 2018 Before road After road Before road After road Traffic Engineers, Vol.45, No.5, Improvement to traffic conditions on local road in the Ichikawa and Matsudo area construction construction construction construction 2010) Niki Town Akaigawa Village *In response to moderate level of acute myocardial infarction 17 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 18 Special Topic About NEXCO EAST ■ Benefits of Opening TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY between Nanyo Takahata IC and ■ Accelerating Recovery Work via the Opening of Okuma IC on JOBAN EXPWY Yamagata Kaminoyama IC Special Topic Following on from the Great East Japan Earthquake, The 24.4 km section of expressway on the Yamagata area, the Fukushima area and the Sendai NEXCO East Group collaborated with Okuma town to TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY between Nanyo Takahata area, which means that routes mutually supplement advance the construction of the Okuma IC on the JOBAN IC and Yamagata Kaminoyama IC was opened on each other and can maintain movement between EXPWY, opening the interchange on March 31, 2019. April 13, 2019, linking up the main inland cities of areas, even if one of the routes (TOHOKU EXPWY, After Okuma IC was opened, Okuma town completed a Fukushima, Yamagata and Akita prefectures. YAMAGATA EXPWY or TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY) is new town hall, restarting administrative work in the town Indeed, with the opening of routes this time closed for some reason. for the first time in about eight years and two month, The new Okuma round, a double network has been formed for the following on from the earthquake – hence, since then, town hall Expressways Operation recovery work has picked up pace. The opening of Okuma IC is assisting the acceleration of recovery work, which will hopefully contribute to the Business recovery of the region by, for example, bringing efficiency to the transport of removed soil to interim storage facilities. JOBAN EXPWY Okuma IC Rest Area Business ■ Environmental Preservation Initiatives ● Preventing Animal Intrusion In areas where our planned routes pass through verdant countryside, NEXCO East Group installs intrusion prevention fences to prevent deer and other such wild animals from gaining access to Expressway expressways, where they could cause traffic accidents, such as collisions. We also install flight guiding poles to guide Construction Business Deer intrusion prevention measures Installation of bird flight guiding poles birds along movement pathways. ● Preserving Rare Plants The flowering state of Dopatrium In an area where the topography was changed by junceum an expressway, we found a rare plant, and, as the Technology Development preservation period was before germination, we extracted the soil containing seeds, and let them germinate and grow in one of our group facilities, and Overseas Business replanting them in a habitat similar to their original environment. Furthermore, to reduce the risk of extinction of this rare plant, we harvested the seeds from plants we cared for and sent them to the Shinjuku Gyoen Fulfilling Our Social National Garden of the Ministry of the Environment to be stored. Responsibility The preservation and growing of Dopatrium junceum (Greening Technology Center in the Nippon Expressway Research Institute Company Ltd.) ● Preservation of Small Creatures Company Profile As planned roads pass through the habitats of small creatures, such as reptiles and amphibians, we install banked water channels to ensure movement routes that small creatures can crawl along. Gutter with crawling bank for small creatures 19 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 20 About NEXCO EAST In the vicinity of KAN-ETSU EXPWY Sakado-nishi Smart IC Expressways Operation Business Aspiring to Create Safer and More Comfortable“Best Ways” Expressways Operation Business Keeping a Close Watch on the Safety of Aspiring to Create Safer and Special Topic Expressways 24 Hours a Day, 365 Days a Year More Comfortable“Best Ways” Daily Maintenance Operations At the NEXCO East Group, on a daily basis, we inspect and clean facilities to maintain the expressways in a condition for safe travel, and we also schedule repairs of road to keep them safe and reliable at all times. Expressways Operation Business Rest Area Business Hammering test inspection on bridge Repairing road surface Expressway Construction Business Technology Development and Overseas Business The Operation Division of NEXCO East supports the safety and reliability of 3,943 km of Grass cutting an embankment Cleaning the lights in a tunnel expressways in the eastern Japan area, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. In addition to daily inspections, maintenance, and tasks regarding traffic safety and tolls, the Operation Division engages in a wide variety of projects, such as to strengthen the functions of expressways, “Relaxation through Flowers and Greenery” including countermeasures for traffic congestion, as well as the Expressway Renewal Project for ensuring the soundness of the expressways for a long time into the future. In addition, securing Expressway Garden Project Fulfilling Our Social transportation routes that support rescue and recovery activities as early as possible in the event of a large-scale disaster is also an essential mission of expressway-related companies. This is a project to establish“Expressway Gardens” to turn gardens of rest areas into easier-to-use Responsibility Moreover, due to predicted changes in working age populations and the employment environment, improving efficiency and productivity is also a pressing task. The Operation and comfortable spaces, as well as to enhance Division is also working intensively on the realization of a next-generation comprehensive local identities and seek cooperation with local infrastructure management system (i.e., the“Smart Maintenance Highway Framework” ) by communities. NEXCO East continues working utilizing the latest technologies, such as ICT and AI, and is focusing on the mechanization and advancement of operations to control snow and ice, due to having many regions with heavy to provide customers more peaceful and more snowfall under the company’ s jurisdiction. soothing spaces. By putting customers first and giving top priority to safety, NEXCO East Group pursues the Company Profile provision of safe, reliable, comfortable, and convenient expressways. Managing Director and Senior Executive Officer Director of Operation Division An Expressway Garden that was designed and supervised by the garden facilities near a neighbourhood (Iwamizawa SA Tomomichi TAKAHASHI [outbound], DO-O EXPWY) 21 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 22 About NEXCO EAST Expressways Operation Business Aspiring to Create Safer and More Comfortable“Best Ways” Traffic Control Center Maintaining and Improving the Driving Environment Special Topic The Traffic Control Center is divided into the Traffic and the Facility Control Division (constantly Control Division (keeping up to date on road monitoring the diverse range of facilities on the Measures for Traffic Safety conditions on expressways, dealing with unusual expressways), and strives to provide safe and occurrences and offering information to customers) comfortable expressways. In order to prevent traffic accidents, NEXCO East tape, guiding lane markings, rumble strips, and Group analyzes the situations of traffic accidents thin-layer pavements so as to call attention to that have occurred in the past and implements sharp corners, control speed and prevent lane various traffic safety measures such as using departure, etc. chevron alignment signs, high-visibility reflective Expressways Operation Business Traffic Control Center, Kanto Regional Head Office (Traffic Control Traffic Control Center, Kanto Regional Head Office (Facility Control Rest Area Business Division) Division) Traffic Management Patrol Regularly and on special occasions, we patrol important for the Traffic Patrol Squads to train on a expressways to collect information, such as traffic daily basis, as they have to hasten to the scenes of Sharp curve sign Guiding lane markings (broken line section) status due to congestion, etc., and the state of unusual events to clean up fallen objects. roads due to fallen objects, etc. Indeed, it is Measures to Prevent Driving the Wrong Way Expressway 〈Achievements in 2018〉 As driving the wrong way on expressways can Number of Fallen Objects Cleaned Up cause fatal accidents, we promote measures to prevent unreasonable turning and wrong way Construction Business Approx. 102,000operations driving, including the installation of rubber poles at merging points to main lanes, arrows and Distance Covered in Traffic Management Patrols signs indicating the correct driving direction, and coloring of road surface according to direction at Approx. 23,000,000km crossing points of Y-shaped interchanges. (Approximately 1.5 laps around the earth per day) Technology Development A scene from on-site action A scene from regulation training and Overseas Business Cracking Down on Vehicles in Violation of Laws and Regulations The maximum speed limits according to vehicle regulations have a large impact on the structures Measure to prevent wrong-way driving at flat intersection of flat Y-shaped IC dimensions on roads and the hazardous materials of expressways and may lead to serious accidents. that vehicles can carry through long tunnels are Therefore, NEXCO East Group cracks down on designated by laws and regulations. In particular, those vehicles at toll gates on the interchanges of Fulfilling Our Social overloaded vehicles that are in violation of laws and expressways. Responsibility VOICE As members of the Traffic Patrol Squad, we have to be available 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year, to swiftly deal with unusual Member of Nagaoka occurrences, such as objects that fall onto expressways, breakdowns Traffic management and traffic accidents. Office One momentary judgmental mistake or hesitation can easily Nexco-Support Niigata endanger patrol members and customers (expressway users). Thus, Company Ltd. we train daily in various situations that we can expect on site. And, Company Profile my goal is to improve my skills so that, whatever the situation, I Naoto SHINADA remain calm and collect as I undertake my work safely. From here too, I will strongly adhere to being a professional, prioritizing the safety of customers and striving to ensure comfortable travel on our expressways. Traffic law enforcement (pulling over a vehicle) Checking to see if a vehicle being operated legally 23 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 24 About NEXCO EAST KAN-ETSU EXPWY Akagi-kogen SA (inbound) Rest Area Business For More Convenient and Comfortable Service Rest Area Business Engagement in the Creation of For More Convenient and Unique and Fascinating Rest Areas Special Topic Comfortable Service Enrichment of Uniqueness and Attractiveness Areas Rest Area Business Pasar Dramatic Area Themed Area 6 16 2 Expressways Operation Enrichment of Basic Services Areas YASMOCCA Areas for Others Business Convenience (Areas where basic services are Stores provided) 56 33 86 ・ Restaurants / Food courts ・ Information services ・ Receipt of digital currencies Rest Area Business ・ Shops ・ Information terminals ・ ATMs / Cash Types of dispensers ・ E-NEXCO Drive ・ Seattle -style cafés ・ Nursery Available Plaza branded ・ Gas stations ・ E-NEXCO Services ・ Walk-in gates products Wiﬁ spots ・ Quick-charging stations ・ Dog parks (bottled water, Dora bento boxes) for electric vehicles ・ Coin-operated ・ Duty-free shopping showers ・ Printers for printing ETC usage history, etc. (Number of areas: As of July 1, 2019) New Business ・ Hibiya parking lot Customer Service ・ Credit card Asset Utilization operation business Recyclable Energy ・ Solar power generation Business business Business Business ・ Bicycle parking lot business ・ Travel business operation business ・ Internet services Development of“Enrichment of Uniqueness and Attractiveness”Areas ・ Below-expressway business viaduct business ・ Goods sales business ・ Hotel business (Drive Plaza Shopping) Expressway ・ Truck terminal business ● Development of Pasar “Pasar” is the flagship brand of NEXCO East variety of services. Construction Business Group's commercial facilities called“Michi-naka (In So far, six Pasars have opened near the Tokyo Expressway),”and it has provided familiar chain Metropolitan Area, including Pasar Makuhari stores for public and gourmet foods that drivers (Outbound) on the KEIYO EXPWY. can only enjoy onsite, aspiring to offer a wide Technology Development and Overseas Business List of Pasar • Hanyu PA (Outbound), The Rest Area Business Division operates 199 commercial facilities, including“Pasars”and TOHOKU EXPWY “YASMOCCA,”at rest areas and parking areas on expressways, along with running • Miyoshi PA (Inbound), expressway-related businesses, such as the Asset Utilization Business. Fulfilling Our Social KAN-ETSU EXPWY Also, we have systematically established new commercial facilities, expanded and renovated them, and renewed aging facilities at rest areas and parking areas, so that our customers can • Moriya SA (Inbound), JOBAN EXPWY Responsibility use them safely, reliably, comfortably and conveniently. In addition, we aspire to create rest areas (service areas & parking areas [SA/PA]) that contribute to local communities, by acting • Moriya SA (Outbound), as showrooms for the various regions, devising menus that use locally grown produce, and by JOBAN EXPWY establishing walk-in gates. We are also creating rest areas for foreign visitors that feature duty• Makuhari PA (Inbound), free shops, area concierge multilingual guidance and easy-to-understand pictograms. KEIYO EXPWY Regarding the expressway-related business, we proactively engage in a wide variety of business by efficiently using management resources, such as businesses utilizing spaces below elevated • Makuhari PA (Outbound), structures, and the hotel business. KEIYO EXPWY Company Profile Pasar Moriya (Outbound), JOBAN EXPWY • TOHOKU EXPWY Hasuda SA (inbound) opened on Managing Director and Senior Executive Officer July 29 Director of Service Area Business Division Ryuichi HAGIWARA 25 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 26 About NEXCO EAST Rest Area Business For More Convenient and Comfortable Service Improving Comfort to Create Customer-Friendly Rest Installation of Quick-Chargers Special Topic Areas and Parking Areas for Everyone NEXCO East Group is progressively installing more installations pending based on their usage quick-charging stations for e-vehicle users, with trend. 149* quick-chargers installed up to now, and *As of July 1, 2019 Accessibility Measures Aiming for rest areas and parking areas that are In addition to installing warm water bidet-style comfortable to use for all our customers, we are toilet seats and automatic hot-water faucets, we introducing universal design and making our facilities are providing large stalls with baby seats and accessible to those with disabilities by eliminating small handwashing facilities, children’ s urinals and Expressways Operation steps, providing disabled parking, wheelchairs and ostomate-equipped toilets (restrooms equipped communication boards. with washstands for colostomy bag users). Business Rest Area Business KITA-KANTO EXPWY, Mibu PA (west bound) Multilingual Guidance For all the facilities in rest areas and parking guidance to overseas visitors. areas, including commercial facilities and toilets, Also, all of our information desks provide Parking for the disabled Multifunctional restroom (universal toilet) NEXCO East Group has added multilingual multilingual assistance using tablets and portable Expressway explanations (English, Chinese [simplified/ translating devices, so as to make our commercial traditional], Korean, etc.) to international symbols facilities convenient for overseas visitors. and JIS-standardized pictograms to provide Spaces for Kids and Infants Construction Business At many rest areas and parking areas, we also installed diaper-changing stations, nursing rooms, and hot-water heaters for baby formula so that small children and their families can use expressways in comfort. Technology Development and Overseas Business Fulfilling Our Social Kids’ space (KEIYO EXPWY, Makuhari PA [outbound]) Pictogram display Responsibility Multilingual guidance by tablet Company Profile Diaper-changing station and nursing room (JOBAN EXPWY, Moriya SA [inbound]) 27 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 28 About NEXCO EAST Shield machine at GAIKAN EXPWY Oizumi JCT Expressway Construction Business Building the Network and Further Enhancing Functions Expressway Construction Business Steadily Expanding Expressway Networks Building the Network and Special Topic so as to Contribute to the Development of Further Enhancing Functions Local Communities Promoting the Steady Expansion of Expressway Networks NEXCO East is working to develop the TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY between Nanyo expressway network and increase the number of Takahata IC and Yamagata Kaminoyama IC was Expressways Operation lanes to four in eastern Japan, starting with the opened on April 13, 2019. And, we will continue Metropolitan Area. Since 2005, 12 routes (605 to push ahead steadily with work to add four km) have been added into the network, with four more routes (75 km) to the network and expand Business routes (86 km) expanded to four lanes. six more routes (164 km) to four lanes, in order Within these works, a 23.3 km section of to contribute to the development of regional expressway on SHIRIBESHI EXPWY between communities. Yoichi IC and Otaru JCT was opened in December 2018 and a 24.4 km section on Rest Area Business ［Legend］ Under construction Under expansion to 4 lanes Expressway E6 JOBAN EXPWY (Yamamoto IC ‒ Iwanuma IC) construction site JOBAN EXPWY Construction Business E6 (Iwaki-Chuo IC ‒ Hirono IC) construction site E6 JOBAN EXPWY Yamamoto IC ‒ Iwanuma IC E6 JOBAN EXPWY Technology Development Iwaki-Chuo IC ‒ Hirono IC C3 TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY and Overseas Business (Oizumi JCT) construction site C4 KEN-O EXPWY (Kamariya JCT ‒ Totsuka IC) C4 KEN-O EXPWY construction site At the Construction & Technology Division, we work to develop expressway construction Kuki Shiraoka JCT ‒ Taiei JCT business, building the expressway network and further enhancing functions. KukiShiraoka YonezawaAlthough our expressway network is well established, there are still missing links in some areas, E18 JOSHIN-ETSU EXPWY kita C4 KEN-O EXPWY starting with the Tokyo Metropolitan Area. Yet, amidst the tough constraints of working in Sinano-machi IC ‒ Joetsu JCT Itako Matsuo Yokoshiba IC ‒ Taiei JCT MisatoFulfilling Our Social urban locations, we will complete the network using the latest technologies while putting safety Oizumi Minami Taiei Joetsu first. Iwaki Chuo Keiyo C4 KEN-O EXPWY Koya Matsuo-Yokoshiba Indeed, once the expressways are completed, there will still be a demand for further Koshoku Togane IC & JCT ‒ Matsuo Yokoshiba IC Responsibility improvements to functions from the perspective of enhancing safety, time reliability and comfort, Togane as well as ensuring optional routes to cover for unforeseen temporary closures (redundancy Kisarazu-minami E14 TATEYAMA EXPWY Hokota measures). Therefore, while ensuring traffic movement on existing expressways, we will push Kisarazu-minami JCT ‒ Futtsu Takeoka IC ahead with efforts to expand from provisional two-lane roads to four-lane ones, install additional lanes, and build smart interchanges and new rest areas. C4 KEN-O EXPWY In addition to the construction technologies we have developed at NEXCO East, we will use E66 Kamariya JCT ‒ Totsuka IC, Sakae IC & JCT ‒ Fujisawa IC cutting-edge technologies, such as i-Construction, to further improve productivity, as we strive to build even more trustworthy roads that prioritize safety as well as pursue quality and cost *Includes provisionally named ICs Company Profile efficiency. Managing Director and Senior Executive Officer Director of Construction Division Kazuhiro SAWADA 29 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 30 About NEXCO EAST Expressway Construction Business Building the Network and Further Enhancing Functions Developing the Expressway Network by Continuously Focusing on Quality, Cost and Productivity while Special Topic Applying Various“Creation Technologies” Always Placing Top Priority on Safety to Build More Tunnel Construction in Urban Areas Reliable Roads Shield machines have been used for constructing (between the KAN-ETSU EXPWY and TOMEI Improving Work Safety tunnels in urban areas on the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY), we used a shield machine that has the Of all the technologies at our disposal, the most EXPWY and KEN-O EXPWY. In particular, for largest cross-section area in Japan—about 16 m important one is“safety.”More than ever, we the construction of the TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY in diameter. Expressways Operation are strongly promoting initiatives to introduce safety-related techniques and raise awareness of safety among everyone involved in our work Business from construction of expressways through to operation and maintenance of them. Rest Area Business On-site safety training Tunnel construction using shield machine Promotion of i-Construction Shield machine with largest crosssection area in Japan In Japan, decreasing birth-rate and aging technology for structures – yet, when it comes population are leading to a reduced working to the responsibility of building and operating Expressway Various Beam Constructions age population in the construction industry field, important infrastructures like expressways, we where it is becoming a serious issue. Up to now, are readily turning to i-Construction in order to In spanning roads that the expressway intersects into position when spanning between mountains initiatives have been taken to employ computerfurther improve productivity. Construction Business with elevated structures (viaducts, etc.), traffic has or crossing rivers, so we use cable erection aided construction in civil engineering and precast to be stopped at night while we get a multi-axle techniques, always employing the spanning truck into position to put a beam system up in technique that suits the on-site conditions. one go. Whereas, it can be difficult to get cranes Expressway Technology Development ➡ Rail line intersecting expressway and Overseas Business Vehicle-mounted camera 3D map Fulfilling Our Social Consolidated viaduct construction using a multi-axle Cable erection work truck A vehicle-mounted camera is used to gather point group data to create 3D maps that enable us to efficiently grasp the precise positions of intersecting properties Responsibility (the rail line in the above map). VOICE I am in charge of on-site work on expanding the JOBAN EXPWY to ●What is i-Construction? four lanes. I am immensely happy to be able to hold the position of Construction Manager construction manager, a much sought after engineering position at By introducing ICT* into all areas of on-site construction work, we improve Iwanuma Area NEXCO East, and, as such, I go about my daily work with a strong productivity in all areas of our constructing system while aspiring to make our Sendai Construction sense of mission. The main work I oversee in my section is the construction sites more appealing. Company Profile Office construction of the Abukumabashi, a long bridge extending 534 m. Tohoku Regional Head We are using special construction techniques, so there are lots of * ICT (Information and Communication Technology) is the technology we Office issues to overcome, but we are striving to build a road of high quality consistently use in all civil engineering processes – surveying, designing, Denichiro YAMADA that will be easy to use – thus, step by step, we will show our true scheme of execution, construction and inspections. mettle in getting the job done in line with the principle of safety first. 31 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 32 About NEXCO EAST Making Use of Our Technology to Realize Next-generation Expressways Technology Development and Overseas Business Technology Development and Overseas Business Making Use of Cutting-Edge Technology to Making Use of Our Technology Special Topic Contribute to Society to Realize Next-generation Development of Driving Support System for Snowplows Expressways Apart from prioritizing safety in our development of At present, we are developing and trialling driving technologies, NEXCO East endeavors to advance support technologies to guide the safe operation of countermeasures for snow and ice by utilizing IoT, snow-ice control vehicles by combining the QuasiAI, and robotics, in order to reduce road closures Zenith Satellite System, which can provide highExpressways Operation in the winter and cope with the shortage of skilled precision location information, with high-precision workers who implement these countermeasures. 3D map data. ① Combining technologies Business Rest Area Business ©JAXA 3D precision map data ② Development of system Expressway Travel position displayed in cab Construction Business ③ Trialling Technology Development Obstacle (guardrail, etc.) position and Overseas Business Posit ion o f outs ide li ne At the Technology Development Division, we are working on R&D projects on Snow plowing is feasible even in poor visibility realizing SMH by advancing inspection methods, enhancing traffic safety, advancing Fulfilling Our Social countermeasures for snow and ice, and preserving the environment, all as technologies that Making use of the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System drive rotary-blade snowplow at high speed make the most of aging expressways. In addition, we are making use of the technologies and further advanced technology, we have (approximately 50km/h), which supports snow and knowhow we have nurtured up to now, to contribute to regional communities through Responsibility been working on the autopilot technology to removal work. public-private collaborations and operation of local government infrastructures as well as in development of business overseas, international interaction and international conferences. Also, to make sure that such technologies get passed on to the next generation, we undertake a variety of necessary initiatives, including the preparation and operation of the NEXCO East Technology Center as a place where the essential training of engineers can take place, so that they can, in turn, undertake the technological R&D we need. Company Profile Managing Director and Senior Executive Officer Director of Technology Division Auto avoidance of raised joint sections on road Kaoru MATUSAKI Image of how high-speed snow plowing can be assisted Image of rotary-blade snowplow on autopilot 33 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 34 About NEXCO EAST Making Use of Our Technology to Realize Next-generation Expressways Technology Development and Overseas Business NEXCO East's Various Efforts for Environmental Reducing Impact on Habitats Along Our Roads Special Topic Preservation NEXCO East is erecting noise barriers and establishing roadside greenbelts to reduce the impact on the environment along our expressways. In FY2018, we erected some 15 km Energy Conservation and Employing High-visibility Lighting Fixtures of noise barrier, which means we have erected a total of approximately 1,080 km. NEXCO East is upgrading the lighting in tunnels from conventional high-pressure sodium lamps to LED lamps, which is improving visibility and also saving energy. In FY2018, lighting in 29 tunnels was changed to LED lamps. The total reduction in Expressways Operation electricity usage by switching to LED lamps so far is estimated at approximately 35 million kwh/year (CO2 reduction of about High-pressure sodium lamps GAIKAN EXPWY (Misato-minami IC – Koya JCT) roadside greenbelt 19,000 tons/year). Also, in addition to tunnel lighting, we are Business now reducing electricity usage even further by introducing LED Tree Planting to Help Prevent Global Warming lamps for lighting on roads. Up to FY2018, NEXCO East has planted trees on approximately 3,700 ha of expressway land. These trees absorb CO 2 , providing an estimated fixed effect of approximately 39,000 LED lighting in a tunnel tons of absorbed CO2 per year. And, we take care to appropriately Rest Area Business Promoting Environmentally Friendly“eco Inters”and“eco Areas” manage our green infrastructures (including the trees). Based on a policy of actively installing energy-saving are taken to improve the efficiency of heating and electrical facilities in interchanges and rest areas, cooling systems inside buildings and utilize reusable How a bank looks NEXCO East is promoting the establishment of energy sources such as solar power. when the trees are first planted “environmentally friendly”facilities in which steps An example of eco Inters Indoor lighting Solar power Double-paned glass sashes Expressway LED lighting Solar power Double-paned used as generation: glass used as standard 5 kW standard for the outer surface Construction Business sashes Thermal insulation coating Use of a folded-plate thermal The state of the trees after some years of management insulation coating product Technology Development Road lighting Use of LED New Green Recycling Challenge (“Biomass Gasification Power Generation”) ﬂoodlights and Overseas Business NEXCO East operates a bioMaintenance work for expressways Produced biomass Chipping Rest area mass gas power generation system that utilizes the gas Information boards derived from pyrolysis as Pruning Use of LED units energy, as a new recycling Dead grass system for the plant-derived Fulfilling Our Social Timber from thinning Chips Signal lights materials produced from the Power Biomass mowing of grass, pruning of transmission Use of LED lamps trees, and thinning of timber, Responsibility Gas in order to supply electricity 1) Dehydration 2) Pyrolysis 3) Gas puriﬁcation 4) Power generation Gate lighting to a rest area (Nasu-Kogen SA [Inbound], TOHOKU EXPWY). Use of LED ﬂoodlights Biomass Gas Gas Carbide Company Profile Water heating systems Eave materials Thermal insulation Exhaust heat Use of electric Use of aluminum panels to Use of glass walls Biomass gas power plant water heaters lighten the eaves inside outer walls and (EcoCute) Implementation of inside ceilings fall-prevention measures in Spraying of foaming both base materials and urethane on the ﬁnished materials 仙台方面 underside of eaves 那須高原 SA（上り） 那須高原 SA（下り） 35 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 36 東北自動車 About NEXCO EAST Making Use of Our Technology to Realize Next-generation Expressways Technology Development and Overseas Business Developing Overseas Business Special Topic By Utilizing the Technologies and Know-how of NEXCO East's Expressway Business Participating in the Overseas Road Project In 2010, NEXCO East established a liaison office Infrastructure Investment Corporation for Transport in India, where large-scale road development is & Urban Development (JOIN) and have acquired Expressways Operation expected, and has been collecting information a 20% share in Cube Highways (the Indian PPP and participating in projects there. In March 2014, operating company), fulfilling the basic agreement the company entered the road Public-Private of participating in toll road operation business in Business Partnership (PPP) business in India through the India. Since then, Japan Expressway International Overseas engineers at NEXCO East for training On-site supervision in project for capacity development of acquisition of 9% of the shares of a Special Purpose Company Limited (JEXWAY) has joined the road bridge technology in Myanmar Vehicle (SPV) and set about the task of preparing consortium, which then completed acquisition of International cooperation for participation in Indian business. Since April 2017, shares for five routes (extending approximately NEXCO East has been providing technical advisory 520 km [routes (1) to (5) on the map below]) in Through the Japan International Cooperation (as of April 2019). Moreover, in FY2018, NEXCO Rest Area Business services to Cube Highways (Cube Highways and December 2018 and commenced participation in Agency (JICA), we have dispatched two longEast received about 100 foreign trainees in Japan Infrastructure Private Limited) regarding surveying earnest. term experts in the fields of construction and through agencies such as the Ministry of Land, and designing of a rest area project on a toll road Going forward, we will focus on discussions and maintenance, one each to India and Myanmar Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism and JICA. in India, and we are currently examining how we coordination to acquire the shares of other routes, can expand our rest facilities business. Furthermore, while we will also provide technical advice to bring in December 2017, we formed a consortium improvements and added value to this business. with Mitsubishi Corporation and Japan Overseas Expressway Our Toll Road Business in India (As of April 2019) Diagram of Investment in Cube Highways ❶❷❸❹❺ Abu Dhabi Investment Mitsubishi Mahua Bharatpur JOIN JEXWAY NEXCO East Routes already Authority Construction Business Corporation Expressways IFC ISQ invested in (57km) 100％ Technical Advisory Western UP Tollways (78km) The JICA expert in India (second from left) JICA expert in Myanmar (standing at lectern) Consortium ❸ 20％ ❶❷ International Exchange 100％ NEXCO East has exchanged technical information for Technology Development Cube Highways and Transportation expressways since April 2008 with ASFiNAG, the public Asset Advisors Jaipur Mahua corporation managing expressways in Austria. In FY2018, young and Overseas Business Tollways members of our group visited ASFiNAG in Austria, where they (109km) ❹❺ Narketpally Addanki Medarametla Expressway interchanged various views and opinions on expressways with (204km) their Austrian counterparts. Andhra Pradesh Expressways (75km) Fulfilling Our Social NEXCO East Group employees visiting ASFiNAG in Austria in June 2018 Jaipur Mahua Tollways (Item ❶ on left Western UP Tollways (Item ❸ on left side Consulting Projects for ODA side map) map) International Conferences NEXCO East collects and transmits information on expressway Responsibility NEXCO East provides surveying, planning and technical support for projects in the technologies around the world through participation in road, bridge, tunnel and ITS sectors as part conferences held by the International Science Council. In of the Government of Japan's efforts to 2018 and 2019, engineers from NEXCO East and our group promote the export of quality infrastructure companies participated in the PIARC International Winter Company Profile to developing countries. Road Congress in Poland, the ITS World Congress in Denmark, the India Road Congress (IRC) in India and a concrete paving Supervising a local engineer in India seminar in India, where they broadly passed on information on a project to strengthen development Traffic congestion in Bengaluru, India capacity for building sustainable about our technologies and know how to foreign audiences. Presenting a paper at the IRC concrete paving seminar in India in January 2019 mountain roads 37 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 38 About NEXCO EAST Flower and Green Peaceful Highway Garden Project (HOKURIKU EXPWY, Nadachi Tanihama SA [outbound]) Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility For Society and For Employees Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility Promoting Active Participation of Women For Society and For Employees Special Topic To build our company and workplaces into are taking place, including efforts such as science platforms where women can participate more and technology companies signing up to become than ever, NEXCO East is pushing ahead with the “supporters of science and technology challenges” creation of female-friendly workplaces, including as well as holding female-only company briefing the establishment of a“Project Promoting Active sessions for female students on science courses Participation of Women,”as well as setting up and proactively promoting employment of women. female-only restrooms in our offices, all as across Number of Women among Newly Ratio of Female Employees in Employed Staff at NEXCO East NEXCO East the-group efforts that we can unite together to Expressways Operation carry through. 13.0% 16.7% Additionally, in an initiative mainly run by the Gender Equality Bureau Cabinet Office, the Business examination of and consequent implementation of specific measures from five perspectives: 20 “employment, appointments and human resources 12 development,” “realization of work-life balance,” “reform of workplace environments,”“raising Rest Area Business of awareness among employees and behaviour FY2008 figure FY2019 figure As of end of As of end of March 2009 March 2019 reforms”and“in-house advertising strategies” (Ref: 2009 = 291/2,247) (Ref: 2019 = 366/2,192) The CSR Ideal to Which NEXCO East Group Aspires In February 2014, NEXCO East Group formulated the Key phrases for the CSR of NEXCO East Group We connect communities and are connected to communities. “CSR Declaration,” which is the CSR ideal to which Realization of our Management Principles and Visions NEXCO East Group aspires. We take action for CSR Expressway following the slogan,“We connect communities and are connected to communities”to realize our Management CSR activities utilizing our expressway business Construction Business Principles and Visions. Vitalization of local communities Social challenges Expressway business Actions grounded on a high level of awareness of compliance Technology Development Promotion of Environmental traﬃc safety Provision of safe, preservation reliable, comfortable and convenient expressways and Overseas Business *Issues listed in the petal-shaped domains are the ones our company addresses among social challenges. CSR Activities Making the Most of Our Expressway Business Recognizing that employees’health is essential to fulfill the mission of providing safe, reliable, comfortable, and convenient expressways , we have been engaged in workstyle reforms with We are promoting CSR activities cored around our expressways work together with social welfare the goal of creating a company where each of our employees can live a healthy life, work with three items (vitalization of regional communities, bodies, we aspire to contribute to the activization Fulfilling Our Social peace of mind and feel one’ s work is worth doing. As a part of workstyle reforms, we establish a promotion of traffic safety and environmental of regional communities through expressways comfortable working environment as well as propose diverse work styles. Additionally, in order to change the mindsets of our employees, the“E-shokuba creation campaign”(employee healthpreservation) that make use of our expressway by providing opportunities for the disabled to Responsibility oriented corporate management) has been started since 2016. business. participate in events, such as jointly run clean-up Moreover, through our business activities – starting with expressway business – we are In particular, in an effort called“Kofuku-Renkei” , where campaigns and greening projects held at Rest Areas. collaborating with various partners to contribute to the fulfilling of SDGs(Sustainable Development Goals). We also place great value on communicating with all our stakeholders about the activities that support our business, such as internal controls, accounting practices, financial operations, advertising and CSR, and strive to ensure that these activities are carried out efficiently and Company Profile properly so that we can realize even sounder management. Managing Director and Senior Executive Officer Director of General Aﬀairs & Accounting Division Kofuku-Renkei Winter safety driving workshop for Clean-up event at Yokotegawa Expressway and social welfare the elderly (Memuro-cho) (Yokote-city) Makoto ARAKAWA body working together at rest area (JOSHIN-ETSU EXPWY Arai PA) 39 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 40 About NEXCO EAST Fulfilling Our Social Responsibility For Society and For Employees Company Profile Trade Name East Nippon Expressway Company Limited Having Established a Suitable System, We Work to Shin-Kasumigaseki Building, 3-2, Kasumigaseki 3-chome, Special Topic Chiyodaku, Tokyo 100-8979, Japan Ensure Sound, Efficient and Transparent Management Location of Head Office <Service Area Business Division> MOMENTO SHIODOME Bldg., 3-17, Higashi-Shimbashi TEL +81-3-3506-0111 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-0021, Japan Corporate Governance Representative Toru Obata, President and Chief Executive Officer At NEXCO East, we are establishing an internal system (see below), in order to give our corporate Date of controls system, including the setting up of an governance the kind of repleteness that enables us to EstablishOctober 1, 2005 internal control committee as well as construction conduct business appropriately and efficiently. ment of a compliance system and a risk management Capital 52.5 billion yen Expressways Operation Corporate Governance System Number of 2,283 (As of March 31, 2019. This figure excludes employees from our company assigned to outside Employees the company and includes employees from outside the company assigned to our company) General Meeting of Shareholders Business To facilitate road traffic via effective new construction, reconstruction, maintenance, repair, Business and other forms of expressway management, etc., thereby contributing to the healthy Purpose Supervision development of the national economy and the improvement of the life of the people. and decision making Board of Directors Expressway management and construction business, rest area operation business, parking lot Business operation business, below-viaduct area utilization business, truck terminal operation, credit Management Audit & Descriptions card business, internet services business, hotel business, overseas business, etc. Rest Area Business Supervisory President Board Executive Meeting Internal Audit Oﬃce Internal Control Committee Divisions Board Members Independent auditor Group Companies Chairman Kunie Okamoto President and Chief Executive Oﬃcer Toru Obata CEO Expressway Representative Director and Executive Vice President Seigo Sakaki Director of Corporate Strategy Division Risk Management System Managing Director and Senior Executive Officer Ryuichi Hagiwara Director of Service Area Business Division Construction Business Regarding the risks incumbent in management, NEXCO management in accordance with the plan-do-checkManaging Director and Senior Executive Officer Makoto Arakawa Director of General Aﬀairs & Accounting Division East hold board of directors meetings to deliberate act (PDCA) cycle. Managing Director and Senior Executive Officer Kazuhiro Sawada Director of Construction Division over a given risk that could have immense impacts In the Risk Management promotion Committee, the Managing Director and Senior Executive Officer Tomomichi Takahashi Director of Operation Division on the company while at the same time configuring relevant department(s) identify the most serious risks Managing Director and Senior Executive Officer Kaoru Matsusaki Director of Technology & International Division & Deputy Director of Operation Division（Renewal） countermeasures in overseeing departments, as that could have a major impact on the company, well as setting up a“Risk Management Promotion mostly using items that span multiple fields and Technology Development Audit & Supervisory Board Member (full-time) Taizo Fujita Committee”to support the implementation of risk making the items the main targets of their monitoring. Audit & Supervisory Board Member (full-time) Noboru Okamoto Risk Management System Audit & Supervisory Board Member Michiaki Ozaki and Overseas Business 4 Report Audit & Supervisory Board Member Keiko Sakurai Board of directors Internal Control Committee Deputy Director of Operation Division & Director (Corrections, etc.) Executive Oﬃcer Shigemi Oba of Toll Collection Management Department Management Deputy Director of Operation Division & (of Each Division and Group Company) Executive Oﬃcer Youichi Chida Director of Maintenance Management Fulfilling Our Social Risk management Risk management Risk management Department items in accordance items handled by current status report with management overseeing Director of Corporate Strategy Department, decisions department Executive Oﬃcer Hiroyuki Tanaka Corporate Strategy Division Responsibility Risk Management Review of risk items and Promotion Committee 1 countermeasures Director of Personnel Department, General Executive Oﬃcer Yutaka Shina 3 Affairs & Accounting Division 2 Implementation countermeasures of risk Monitoring and Director of Accounting & Finance Department, advice Executive Oﬃcer Hideo Yoshimi General Affairs & Accounting Division Director General of Hokkaido Regional Head Executive Oﬃcer Naoki Tanaka Oﬃce 1 2 3 4 Company Profile Information sharing Director General of Tohoku Regional Head Review of risk Implementation Monitoring of Executive Oﬃcer Shigeki Yagi PDCA items and of risk counterimplementation about risk management and examinaOﬃce Cycle countermeasures measures status of risk tion of issues by countermeasures management Executive Oﬃcer Toru Yoshimine Director General of Kanto Regional Head Oﬃce Executive Oﬃcer Hiroyuki Suzuki Director General of Niigata Regional Head Oﬃce As of July 1, 2019 41 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 42 About NEXCO EAST Organization Chart List of Expressways Currently Operating Special Topic General Meeting of Shareholders ■ List of National Networks (Expressways) Currently in Business Length of roads in Traffic volume Toll income Audit & Supervisory Board Names of roads in service service (km) (number of vehicles/day) (1,000s of yen/day) Board of Directors DO-O EXPWY 443.5 116,811 116,747 Audit & Supervisory Board Member SHIRIBESHI EXPWY 23.3 608 523 Chairman SASSON EXPWY 38.3 52,558 21,170 Audit Office DOTO EXPWY 206.1 10,133 29,881 Executive Meeting President and Chief Executive Officer TOHOKU EXPWY 680.5 325,762 514,008 AOMORI EXPWY 15.6 4,276 1,514 Expressways Operation Internal Control Committee Internal Audit Office HACHINOHE EXPWY 81.3 7,232 11,376 Compliance Committee KAMAISHI EXPWY 11.4 2,591 957 Business Business Innovation Office AKITA EXPWY 143.6 20,556 22,405 National Expressway Risk Management Promotion Committee YAMAGATA EXPWY 109.8 24,328 21,108 Occupational Safety and Toll System Department Office Health Promotion Committee BAN-ETSU EXPWY 212.7 21,488 44,550 NIHONKAI TOHOKU EXPWY 91.6 26,157 13,393 CSR Promotion Committee TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY 51.5 5,313 2,339 Technology Development Corporate Strategy Division Corporate Strategy Department Rest Area Business Committee KAN-ETSU EXPWY 246.3 214,617 258,518 Information Systems Department JOSHIN-ETSU EXPWY 203.4 62,919 105,776 Toll Collection Operation Division Management Department JOBAN EXPWY 300.4 209,894 228,638 Nexco Systems Company Ltd. Maintenance TATEYAMA EXPWY 55.7 80,201 36,686 Management Department Trans-Tokyo Bay Highway Corporation HIGASHI-KANTO EXPWY 92.1 198,008 129,069 Facilities Engineering Department SHIN-KOKU EXPWY 3.9 6,710 1,560 Traffic Operation Department General Affairs & TOKYO-GAIKAN EXPWY 49.2 189,572 97,862 Accounting Division General & Legal Affairs Department KITA-KANTO EXPWY 135.0 77,533 80,447 Highway Toll Systems Expressway Company Ltd. Personnel Department NAGANO EXPWY 42.7 7,197 24,308 HOKURIKU EXPWY 195.8 53,925 91,369 Public Relations & CSR Department Subtotal 3,433.7 1,718,390 1,854,202 Construction Business Construction Department Construction Division Accounting & Finance Department FUKAGAWA-RUMOI EXPWY 4.4 1,977 263 Land Acquisition Department Nexco Insurance Services HIDAKA EXPWY 4.0 6,018 851 Nexco-East Trustee Company Ltd. Company Ltd. MOMOISHI EXPWY 6.1 5,462 723 YUZAWA-YOKOTE EXPWY 14.5 6,253 1,916 Technology & Technology Division Service Area Business Service Area Business Environment Department AKITA EXPWY 9.5 6,222 1,943 Technology Development Department Division International Department AKITA EXPWY (Kotooka-Noshiro Road) 17.1 4,460 1,810 New Business Promotion Department SENDAI-HOKUBU EXPWY 13.5 20,465 7,668 Nippon Expressway Research Nex-area Company Ltd. Institute Company Ltd. SANRIKU EXPWY 7.8 47,023 7,704 and Overseas Business General Toll Road Japan Expressway SENDAI-TOBU EXPWY 24.8 68,070 24,861 Nexco-East Retail International Company Ltd. Company Ltd. SENDAI-NANBU EXPWY 12.9 28,233 8,342 Nexco-East Area Support TOHOKU-CHUO EXPWY Company Ltd. 8.8 5,751 1,538 (formerly YONEZAWA-NANYO EXPWY) NEXCO East Innovation and HIGASHI-MITO EXPWY 10.2 15,446 4,051 Communications Company Ltd. Fulfilling Our Social Tohoku Expressway Truck KEIYO EXPWY 36.7 286,723 69,430 Terminal Company Ltd. CHIBA-TOGANE EXPWY 16.1 54,316 15,213 TOKYO-WAN-AQUA-LINE EXPWY 15.1 48,114 39,205 Responsibility AQUA RENRAKU EXPWY 7.1 34,332 8,119 Hokkaido Regional Head Office Tohoku Regional Head Office Kanto Regional Head Office Niigata Regional Head Office Operation office (6) Construction office (1) Operation office (15) Construction Office (3) Operation office (14) Construction office (6) Operation office (4) Construction office (1) FUTTSU-TATEYAMA EXPWY 19.2 14,007 5,946 KEN-O EXPWY 216.7 216,150 183,415 Nexco-Support Hokkaido Company Ltd. Nexco-Toll Tohoku Company Ltd. Nexco-Toll Kanto Company Ltd. Nexco-Support Niigata Company Ltd. DAISAN-KEIHIN 16.6 134,565 29,421 Nexco-Engineering Hokkaido Company Ltd. Nexco-Engineering Tohoku Company Ltd. Nexco-Toll Kita-Kanto Company Ltd. Nexco-Engineering Niigata Company Ltd. YOKOHAMA SHINDO 11.3 125,720 37,642 Company Profile YOKOHAMA-YOKOSUKA EXPWY 36.9 104,894 51,874 Nexco-Maintenance Hokkaido Company Ltd. Nexco-Maintenance Tohoku Company Ltd. Nexco-East Engineering Company Ltd. Nexco-Maintenance Niigata Company Ltd. Subtotal 509.3 1,234,199 501,936 Nexco-Patrol Tohoku Company Ltd. Nexco-Maintenance Kanto Company Ltd. Total 3,943.0 2,952,589 2,356,139 …Group Company (As of July 1, 2019) Nexco-Patrol Kanto Company Ltd. ● Length of roads: As of July 1, 2019 ● Traﬃc volume and toll revenues: FY2018 data ● The totals for traﬃc volume and toll revenues may not be consistent because of the rounding of the subtotals. 43 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 44 About NEXCO EAST Financial Statements ● Key Points Concerning Consolidated Statement NEXCO East Websites 《Consolidated Balance Sheet》 Special Topic The majority of assets are highway assets in process, which are road assets prior to being transferred to the Expressway Agency. The majority of liabilities are road-building bonds payable / long-term loans Corporate Site Drive Plaza Site payable liabilities that were procured for the construction of road assets. https://www.e-nexco.co.jp/en/ https://en.driveplaza.com/ 《Consolidated Income Statement》 In the breakdown of operating revenue, revenue came from toll revenues from expressway business, asset construction revenue from the opening of new expressways and sales from expressway rest area business, etc., with the majority of revenue coming from toll revenues and road asset construction revenue. FY2018 was characterized by an operating profit of 4.4 billion yen, and 4.1 billion yen of net income in the Expressways Operation period attributable to owners of parent company. ● Consolidated Balance Sheet (March 31, 2019) (In billions of JPY) Business Assets Liabilities Current assets 930.3 Current liabilities 347.2 Cash and deposits 118.0 Non-current liabilities 669.4 Highway assets in process 539.5 Road-building bonds payable / Long-term loans payable 566.9 Rest Area Business Other current assets 272.6 Other liabilities 102.4 Non-current assets 316.3 Total liabilities 1,016.6 Properties, plants and equipment 257.8 Net assets Thank you for reading the 2019 NEXCO East Annual Report. Intangible assets 14.9 Shareholders’equity 244.2 We hope the report helps you understand how we at NEXCO East Group are working toward a Investments and other assets 43.5 Capital stock 52.5 sustainable society through our expressway businesses. Deferred assets 0.7 Capital surplus 58.7 Retained earnings 132.9 Expressway Accumulated other comprehensive income (13.4) We would appreciate your Valuation difference on available-for-sale securities (0) cooperation in improving and 2019 NEXCO East Annual Report survey form Construction Business Remeasurements of retirement benefits (13.3) substantializing our next report by https://www.e-nexco.co.jp/en/csr/form.php Total net assets 230.8 ﬁlling out our survey form. Total assets 12,474 Total liabilities and net assets 1,247.4 *The calculations in the table may not appear to be consistent, as any numbers less than 100 million have been rounded down. Technology Development ● Consolidated Statement of Income (From April, 2018 to March, 2019) (In billions of JPY) and Overseas Business Operating revenue 1,943.1 Operating expenses 1,938.6 Rent expenses on highway assets 621.1 Administration costs of highway business and cost of sales 1,225.7 NEXCO East Customer Center 0570-024-024 Selling, general and administrative expenses 91.7 Fulfilling Our Social Navidial Operating income 4.4 We are open 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year, Or:03-5338-7524 Responsibility Non-operating income 3.2 waiting to hear from our customers. Non-operating expenses 0.1 Feel free to ask us questions on subjects such expressway tolls, ETC discounts and traffic information, etc. Ordinary income 7.5 Extraordinary income 0.3 ● With the Navidial call service, a call from a landline phone is charged at the local call rate. Moreover, we even bear part of the cost for a call from a mobile phone. Extraordinary losses 0.5 ● With the Navidial call service, mobile phone companies’free-call and flat-rate call systems do not Company Profile Income before income taxes 7.2 apply. If you phone the landline (03-5338-7524), contract charge plans will apply. ● Please note that we record phone conversations with callers to ensure that we respond properly to Income taxes etc. 3.1 calls. Net income attributable to owners of parent 4.1 ● If you cannot connect to an operator due heavy call volume, please note that the call will be *The calculations in the table may not appear to be consistent, as any numbers less than 100 million have been rounded down. automatically cut after operators have been paged for a set amount of time. 45 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 N E XCO E A ST: Annual Rep o r t 2019 46
