TIFFANY & CO. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) R EPORTING FR AMEWOR KS COMMUNICATION ON PROGR ESS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT: COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 In 2011, Tiffany & Co. joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. The table below shows how we are communicating on progress for the Ten Principles. PRINCIPLE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS 1 Businesses should support and respect the Tiffany & Co. adheres to key policies and procedures in order to help safeguard human rights within the Company and throughout protection of internationally proclaimed our supply chain. For information on our policies, please see the GRI Index and the “Investor Relations” website. Within the human rights. Company, we welcome diversity and strive to offer all employees an equitable and respectful working environment. The Company’s Social Accountability Program evaluates suppliers to better protect human rights in our supply chain. Beyond these spheres of 2 Businesses should make sure they are not influence, Tiffany & Co. is committed to protecting human rights throughout the industry and seeks to advance high standards in complicit in human rights abuses. responsible mining and advocating for the protection of human rights. For more information, please see Tiffany.com/Sustainability and the “Tiffany & Co. Supplier Code of Conduct.” LABOR STANDARDS 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Tiffany & Co. recognizes and respects the importance of labor standards to protect workers worldwide. Tiffany & Co. provides association and the effective recognition of the guidance to employees and the Human Resource function of its organization to enhance compliance with applicable employment right to collective bargaining. laws and regulations to foster a positive and ethical work environment. For more information, please see the GRI Index, the “Investor Relations” website and Tiffany.com/Sustainability. 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all Through its Social Accountability Program, Tiffany & Co. upholds standards in social responsibility by working with a key subset forms of forced and compulsory labor. of suppliers to help them improve their human rights, labor and environmental performance. Suppliers are expected to adhere to the Tiffany & Co. Supplier Code of Conduct, which addresses freedom of association and collective bargaining, forced labor, 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition child labor, harassment or abuse, disciplinary practices and discrimination, among other practices. Additionally, Tiffany & Co. of child labor. supports the strengthening of industry-wide labor standards beyond our immediate operations. For more information, please see Tiffany.com/Sustainability and the “Tiffany & Co. Supplier Code of Conduct.” 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 5 TIFFANY & CO. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) R EPORTING FR AMEWOR KS COMMUNICATION ON PROGR ESS PRINCIPLE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ENVIRONMENT 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Tiffany & Co. draws on the natural world for both design inspiration and the precious materials used in our products. At the approach to environmental challenges. Company’s core is a commitment to preserve, protect and responsibly manage the environment on which we rely for our long-term success. The Company promotes environmental responsibility by leveraging the Tiffany brand. For example, the Company actively 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to participates in industry-wide collaborative efforts to protect against environmental damage across the supply chain, raises promote greater environmental responsibility. awareness of risks associated with mining in ecologically sensitive areas and directly sources raw metals principally from mines we know and recycled sources. These efforts are strengthened by the Foundation’s support of scientific research, conservation 9 Business should encourage the development and multistakeholder collaboration to promote environmentally responsible standards in mining operations. In addition to and diffusion of environmentally addressing the impacts of mining, we regularly look to reduce our environmental footprint in other ways—from using recycled friendly technologies. and FSC®-certified paper to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. For more information, please see Tiffany.com/Sustainability. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all The Tiffany & Co. Business Conduct Policy sets forth expectations for Tiffany & Co. employees, including compliance with relevant its forms, including extortion and bribery. laws and regulations. This policy prohibits payment of bribes and the acceptance of inappropriate payments or gifts. All employees are required to review the policy upon hire and thereafter on an annual basis to make sure that they understand these standards. Certain employees in all regions, including regional management, are required to undergo Anti-Money Laundering training. In addition, employees whose responsibilities are likely to involve interactions with government officials are required to annually undergo Anti-Bribery & Corruption training. Within our supply chain, the Tiffany & Co. Supplier Code of Conduct outlines expectations for ethical conduct and legal compliance. For more information, please see Tiffany.com/Sustainability, the GRI index, the “Tiffany & Co. Supplier Code of Conduct” and the “Investor Relations” website. 6 TIFFANY & CO. R EPORTING FR AMEWOR KS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) HOW WE SUPPORT THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Tiffany & Co. reports on its contributions to many of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and our business aligns most closely with the five goals described below. We hope to drive progress on this shared global agenda through our work and collaboration from within our industry, and with other businesses, civil society and government. GENDER EQUA LIT Y R ESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION A ND PRODUCTION DIVERSITY OF OUR WORKFORCE WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT INTEGRITY IRMA STANDARD FOR We work to promote a culture of excellence and diversity In 2017, we affirmed our commitment to women’s rights, Our vertical integration model for sourcing materials RESPONSIBLE MINING in the workplace and are proud that human rights, and diversity and inclusion by signing the and crafting jewelry helps us incorporate environmental In 2018, the Initiative for Responsible Mining Assurance United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles. and social integrity across the supply chain. 60% (IRMA) released the pioneering Standard for Responsible Mining, the result of a decade-long multistakeholder collaboration, including Tiffany & Co., which defines for of manager and above roles are held by women. SUPPORTING PARENTS the first time what constitutes social and environmental & CAREGIVERS responsibility in large-scale mining. In 2018, we expanded our global leave policy designed BOARD GENDER RATIO to give employees greater flexibility through enhanced SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL parental leave and paid time off to care for ill family STANDARDS PRESERVING RESOURCES In 2019, we achieved a gender ratio of members. This policy supports gender equality at home We carefully source our products and materials—from We strive to maintain high social and environmental 45%° and promotes work-life balance. standards in our operations and supply chain precious metals and diamonds to paper and packaging— in an effort to uphold ethical principles and preserve women on the Tiffany & Co. Board of Directors. to complement the exceptional quality and nature’s resources. craftsmanship of our products. TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT TRANSPARENCY IN DIAMOND ADVOCACY Our manufacturing facilities in developing countries SOURCING We use our voice to improve standards for the mining employ a predominantly female workforce, and we industry and advocate for the protection of human rights provide good jobs with the opportunity to earn a In 2019, we launched the Diamond Source Initiative, and Earth’s precious natural resources. living wage—as well as opportunities for training and committing to provide provenance information for every development—to all regular, full-time diamond polishers newly sourced, individually registered diamond we set— and jewelry manufacturers. further enhancing our commitment to transparency. o As of the 2019 Tiffany & Co. Annual Meeting of Shareholders, held on June 4, 2019, the composition of the Board of Directors is 45% female, 55% male. 3 TIFFANY & CO. R EPORTING FR AMEWOR KS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) HOW W E SUPPORT THE SUSTA INA BLE DEV ELOPMENT GOA LS (CONT IN UED) CLIM ATE ACTION LIFE BELOW WATER LIFE ON L A ND NET-ZERO EMISSIONS MARINE CONSERVATION LAND PRESERVATION We are committed to achieving net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Tiffany & Co. stopped using coral over a decade ago, and The Tiffany & Co. We consider it our responsibility to help preserve the natural beauty that Foundation has awarded nearly inspires so many of our jewelry designs. We advocate for the protection of special places from mining. ENERGY EFFICIENCY $24 million in grants for coral and marine conservation. In the short term, we are taking concrete steps to improve energy efficiency, reduce energy use and follow sustainable building design principles. In 2018 SOURCING RAW MATERIALS and 2019, we earned LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) We are thoughtful about which raw materials we use—and which we don’t— certification for five new retail locations in China. and we carefully consider how these materials are procured and crafted. CREATING PROTECTED AREAS RENEWABLE ENERGY The Foundation supports the creation and expansion of marine protected PROTECTING WILDLIFE We aim to ultimately use 100% renewable energy globally. areas around the world through organizations such as Oceans 5, We advocate against the use of endangered species in jewelry and support In 2018, over the Wildlife Conservation Society and Conservation International. conservation efforts to protect wildlife. To date, in partnership with our customers, we have raised more than $5 million for the Wildlife Conservation 80% Network through the Tiffany Save the Wild collection to help protect of our global electricity came elephants, rhinos and lions. from clean, renewable sources. RESEARCH & INNOVATION The Foundation has supported innovative research and restoration REVERSING DEFORESTATION techniques to increase the long-term resilience of coral in places from the Caribbean to the Great Barrier Reef. To do our part in reversing global forest loss, Tiffany & Co. seeks to remove commodity-driven deforestation from our key supply chains by 2020. CARBON OFFSETS For the past two years, we invested in carbon offsets from a locally run forest conservation project that also delivers social and economic benefits to communities in Kenya’s Chyulu Hills. 4 TIFFANY & CO. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT At Tiffany & Co., we pride ourselves on honesty, integrity and excellence. We hold our Suppliers to the same high standards to which we hold ourselves. Our customers and stakeholders demand no less. Tiffany & Co. and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, “Tiffany”) therefore require that our Suppliers share our commitment to human rights, fair and safe labor practices, environmental protection and ethical business conduct. We expect our Suppliers to fully comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. We also expect Suppliers to go beyond legal compliance and strive to meet internationally recognized standards for the advancement of human rights, business ethics, and social and environmental responsibility. Suppliers are encouraged to align with International Labor Organization (“ILO”) conventions and the United Nations Global Compact, Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and Sustainable Development Goals, and work conscientiously to operate within these frameworks. This Code of Conduct sets out general principles and requirements applicable to all Tiffany Suppliers. Additional descriptions regarding these requirements for manufacturing and supply chain partners can be found in the Tiffany Supplier Code Guidance. REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SUPPLIERS Legal Compliance Suppliers shall comply with and have a process to identify, monitor and understand all applicable laws, rules and regulations, including those concerning labor, health and safety, human rights, environmental protection and corruption and bribery. In the event this Code of Conduct differs or conflicts with local law, the higher standard shall prevail. Business Integrity The highest standards of integrity must be upheld in all business interactions. Suppliers shall conduct business ethically and all business dealings must be transparent and accurately reflected on their business books and records. Suppliers shall have a policy mandating business integrity. Anti-Corruption and Bribery and Financial Offenses Suppliers shall not engage in any form of corrupt practices, including bribery, extortion, embezzlement, fraud, money laundering or any business related to terrorist or armed activity. Suppliers shall not violate or cause Tiffany to violate the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other applicable anti-corruption or bribery laws. Monitoring and enforcement procedures shall be implemented to ensure compliance with applicable anti-corruption and bribery laws. Voluntary Employment All workers shall be free to leave their employment without threat or coercion. Suppliers shall not employ forced, indentured, debt-bonded or convict labor, nor use any practice to coerce the continued employment of any person, such as requiring employees to pay recruitment commissions or withholding any personal or travel documents. Suppliers shall monitor relationships with recruitment agencies or contracted labor for risk of human trafficking and compliance with applicable anti-slavery laws. Supplier Code of Conduct Version 3.0 | Effective Date: September 2019 T&CO. Supplier Code of Conduct—English | Page 1 of 3 TIFFANY & CO. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Child Labor Suppliers shall not employ any persons under the age of 15, the age for completing compulsory education, the legal minimum age for employment in the country, or the minimum age permitted under ILO conventions, whichever standard is greatest. Juvenile Workers Suppliers shall ensure any young workers (those between the minimum age described above and 18 years old) are employed under well-defined circumstances, such as vocational training programs, that are not harmful to the health, safety or morals of young workers and that comply with applicable laws. Working Hours Suppliers shall comply with local laws and seek to align with ILO conventions intended to ensure employees do not work excessive hours per week. At a minimum, both regular and overtime hours must be taken into account, and all employees must be allowed one day off in seven. Suppliers shall keep accurate and transparent records of working hours at all times. Wages and Benefits Suppliers are encouraged to provide a level of compensation for a regular work week that is sufficient to meet basic needs and provide discretionary income. At a minimum, Suppliers shall comply with applicable law in the payment of wages and overtime pay and the provision of benefits, including holidays, leaves and statutory severance. Suppliers shall provide wage statements to employees for each pay period. Employees must be compensated for overtime hours at the rate legally required by local law or, where such laws do not exist, overtime should be at least 125% of the regular hourly compensation rate in accordance with ILO conventions. Fair and Equal Treatment Suppliers shall not use corporal punishment, threats of violence or other forms of mental or physical coercion. Sexual harassment of workers shall not be tolerated. There will be no discrimination in any part of the employment relationship on the grounds of race, religion or belief, political opinion, membership in worker organizations, age, national origin, sexual orientation, gender, marital status, parental status, disability, social group or ethnic origin, veteran’s status or any other basis specified by law. Freedom of Association Suppliers shall recognize and respect the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Where laws prohibit these freedoms, Suppliers shall allow the development of parallel means for independent and free association and bargaining. Grievance Mechanisms and Remedy Suppliers shall maintain grievance mechanisms to respond to concerns and complaints that ensure effective, timely, respectful and transparent communication among workers, their representatives, management and the community. Health and Safety Suppliers shall provide a safe and healthy work environment and fully comply with all applicable safety laws, regulations and industry standards. Suppliers shall regularly assess the workplace for hazards and implement appropriate programs and engineering controls to minimize the risks of work-related accidents. Suppliers will strive to continually improve the effectiveness of their health and safety programs and seek to implement best practices in their industries. Supplier Code of Conduct Version 3.0 | Effective Date: September 2019 T&CO. Supplier Code of Conduct—English | Page 2 of 3 TIFFANY & CO. SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Environment Suppliers shall meet or exceed all environmental laws and regulations, and strive to meet or exceed the standards of international environmental treaties and best practices in their industries. Suppliers shall identify environmental risks and impacts, as well as opportunities for improving environmental performance. Suppliers shall implement and regularly review controls to mitigate identified environmental risks and minimize environmental impacts, including resource use, discharges, emissions and waste disposal, and take a proactive approach to monitoring and collecting data on these topics. Supplier operations and sourcing practices should strive to place special emphasis on the mitigation of climate change and the preservation and rehabilitation of biodiversity and ecosystems. Host Communities Suppliers are encouraged to proactively engage with and support development in the communities where their operations and supply chains are located, and to employ, procure and build within those communities. Security Suppliers shall ensure the safety and security of all workers and visitors. Suppliers shall assess security risks and establish measures to prevent product or intellectual property theft, unauthorized access to or loss of employee or customer personal information, and loss, damage or substitution of product while on site, off site or in transit. Suppliers shall take steps to ensure that human rights are protected in all aspects of its security operations, including in interactions among security personnel, workers and visitors. Suppliers are encouraged to align with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights where applicable. Traceability and Due Diligence Manufacturing and supply chain partners are encouraged to meet the standards of the OECD Due Diligence guidance and achieve full traceability throughout their supply chains. They shall also follow Tiffany’s supply chain policies and requirements. APPLICATION AND COMPLIANCE Suppliers are responsible for ensuring that this Code of Conduct is understood and followed throughout their operations. Accordingly, Suppliers must share this Code of Conduct with all workers in their local language. Suppliers are also responsible for ensuring that any approved subcontractors involved in providing goods or services to Tiffany understand and comply with this Code of Conduct. Suppliers are expected to self-monitor in line with this Code of Conduct. Suppliers must also permit Tiffany or its agents to audit or inspect their facilities to verify compliance. During such visits, which may be scheduled or unscheduled, all workers must be free to communicate outside the presence of management and without the threat of reprisal. Tiffany seeks to work collaboratively with its Suppliers towards continuous improvement in responsible business practices. However, we reserve the right to cancel outstanding purchase contracts, suspend future purchase contracts or terminate our relationship with a Supplier where circumstances demand. For more information about Tiffany’s sustainability practices, please visit Tiffany.com/Sustainability. © 2019 Tiffany and Company. All rights reserved. Supplier Code of Conduct Version 3.0 | Effective Date: September 2019 T&CO. Supplier Code of Conduct—English | Page 3 of 3
