— UN Global Compact Communication on Progress for 2018 The company managers, and key functions such as Supply Chain Management, Human Resources, Legal and Integrity, CommunicaABB (ABBN: SIX Swiss Ex) is a pioneering technology leader in tions and Sustainability. Specific training for Supply Chain power grids, electrification products, industrial automation Management specialists was also conducted and preparation and robotics and motion, serving customers in utilities, indusfor Marketing & Sales personnel training was initiated. try and transport & infrastructure globally. Continuing a history • A capacity building program to raise human rights capability of innovation spanning more than 130 years, ABB today is writcontinued in 2018 with further targeted training for our neting the future of industrial digitalization with two clear value work of internal specialists. A detailed development curricupropositions: bringing electricity from any power plant to any lum was also prepared, for delivery in early 2019. An e-learning plug and automating industries from natural resources to finhuman rights module, launched in 2015, continues to provide ished products. As title partner in ABB Formula E, the fully elecfundamental guidance on human rights at ABB. tric international FIA motorsport class, ABB is pushing the • Excessive overtime work was identified as one of the key boundaries of e-mobility to contribute to a sustainable future. areas of concern among suppliers, as part of ABB’s Supplier ABB operates in more than 100 countries with about 147,000 Sustainability Development Program (SSDP). Excessive overemployees. new.abb.com time by workers jeopardizes their work-life balance, adversely impacts safety, physical and mental health and has several far-reaching social effects. However, its resolution mechaStatement of support nisms are often perceived to have negative operational impacts on lead times, operational costs among others. During Ulrich Spiesshofer, ABB Chief Executive Officer 2018, ABB initiated collaborative projects with suppliers in “At ABB, how we do business is just as important as meeting India, China, Bulgaria and Turkey to analyze and find innovaour financial targets. As a founder member of the UN Global tive, practical solutions for this chronic challenge. Compact, ABB is committed to honoring the core principles • ABB actively participates in international meetings, organizaof the Compact and to helping its customers and stakeholders tions and workshops seeking to promote business awareness do the same. In 2013, ABB issued nine sustainability objectives, and respect for human rights. covering environmental, human rights and labor issues, with clear targets that were updated in 2017. Our businesses make Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human a significant contribution to the UN Sustainable Development rights abuses Goals, in particular SDG 7 on providing affordable and clean en• Human rights policy adopted in 2007 and amended in 2016, ergy. ABB supports the Paris Agreement, with more than half is designed to raise performance and avoid complicity. its global revenues coming from technologies that directly Specifically, the issues of human trafficking and slave address the causes of climate change, and with our commitlabor were added to a number of policies in 2016. ment to reduce ABB’s own carbon footprint.” • ABB published its second response to the UK Modern Slavery Act in 2018. Human rights • Global human rights training continued in ABB in 2018. The target groups are as above in Principle 1. Central to all such Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the trainings is the issue of potential complicity. protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Ongoing work to understand and limit ABB exposure to Con• Human rights policy and public statement adopted by ABB flict Minerals, as defined by section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Group in 2007. Policy updated in 2016. Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. For the • Further work to embed human rights into business decifourth year running, ABB was recognized for responsible sion-making processes, including risk review for projects. sourcing of minerals by an independent benchmark study. Human rights considerations integrated in supply chain • In-depth due diligence carried out on a number of proposed questionnaire, the Supplier Code of Conduct, Supplier Susprojects and business partners to avoid potential complicity. tainability Development Program (SSDP) and the mergers • As part of Supplier Sustainability Development Program, sevand acquisitions process. eral rounds of supplier trainings were conducted to extend • Human rights considerations embedded in internal protocol awareness about ABB’s expectation on human rights and fair for deciding where ABB should have business activities. labor conditions as contained in ABB Supplier Code of ConProtocol was reviewed and updated during 2018. duct. In addition, specially designed legal awareness trainings • Global human rights training continued in 2018. An awarewere also conducted for suppliers in India, China, Saudi ness-raising program for senior managers has so far been Arabia and Indonesia. The trainings correlated various ABB delivered in 18 countries; the training is aimed at business requirements of the Supplier Sustainability Development Program, including decent working and fair labor conditions, embedded in ABB’s Supplier Code of Conduct, as part of fair with local/country specific legal requirements, common labor conditions. It is also part of the supplier sustainability observed challenges and sharing of best practices. audit protocol. A total of 190 supplier audits were conducted during the year and no violations were reported. Labor Environment Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary bargaining approach to environmental challenges • Embedded in Code of Conduct, Principle 1 of ABB Human • Environmental considerations are mandatory in the ABB GATE Rights Policy and Principle 6 of ABB Social Policy. All countries model for product and process development. Supporting were asked to formally report on this principle. No violations tools and training materials have been developed to further were reported in 2018. improve application of checklist. A new, more robust standard • In countries where law does not permit this right, ABB faciliwith training material was rolled out in 2018. tates regular consultation with employees to address areas • Standardized Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) procedures are of concern. used to assess new products’ environmental impact through• The right of employees to freely associate and bargain collecout their life cycle. A comprehensive LCA of a full HVDC Light tively is also included in ABB’s Supplier Code of Conduct and transmission system was completed in 2018, helping customin the protocol for supplier sustainability audits. A total of 190 ers evaluate the environmental benefits of ABB’s HVDC Light audits of suppliers were carried out in 2018 and no violations technology. were reported. • Group-wide list of prohibited substances for products and processes is regularly reviewed and updated. The phasing Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and out of hazardous substances is part of ABB sustainability compulsory labor objectives. • Covered by ABB Group Code of Conduct, Principle 1 of ABB Hu• ABB is committed to reducing its environmental footprint, man Rights Policy and Principle 4 of ABB Social Policy. Addiwith a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% tions were made to both policies in 2016 to cover human trafby 2020, from a 2013 baseline, and increase focus on resource ficking and slave labor. All countries were asked to formally efficiency (namely improve materials and water use and report on this principle. No violations were reported in 2018. reduce waste). • The principle of “no forced or compulsory labor” is included • Environmental experts at country and Group level provide enin ABB’s Supplier Code of Conduct and in the protocol for supvironmental expertise, guidelines and tools to business units plier sustainability audits. A total of 190 audits of suppliers to ensure they meet upcoming environmental requirements were carried out in 2018. We uncovered one instance where a and challenges, and customer demand for compliance and supplier retained the passports of migrant workers and withother environmental information. held payments for one month, while the workers went on vacation. The payment was released only once the workers Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater came back and resumed work. ABB immediately engaged the environmental responsibility supplier management on this issue and the supplier agreed • ABB works with international organizations and initiatives, to stop both the practices with immediate effect. Follow such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Developup site visits in 2019 will confirm the corrective actions ment, ISO, the United Nations Environment Programme and are implemented. Sustainable Energy for All, the Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders and Fossil-free Sweden. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor • ABB has implemented strengthened environmental minimum • Included in ABB Group Code of Conduct, Principle 1 of the standards, common to all operations and promotes best ABB Human Rights Policy and Principle 3 of ABB Social Policy. practice examples across its operations. Environmental • All countries were asked to formally report on this principle. awareness training was delivered across the Group in No violations were reported in 2018. 2018, along with focused training on reduction of hazard • The principle of “no child labor” is included in ABB’s Supplier substances. Code of Conduct as well as a protocol for supplier audits. • Key internal environment programs were developed in 2018, A total of 190 audits of suppliers were carried out in 2018, including: Circular economy, Climate action, Product stewardand no violations were reported. ship and Resource efficiency. • In 2018, ABB’s environmental reporting process was reviewed, Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employsimplified and updated to further improve the quality of rement and occupation ported data and allow better business-line reporting and • Contained in ABB Group Code of Conduct, Principle 1 of the analysis. A Climate KPI was also introduced in our quarterly ABB Human Rights Policy and Principle 7 of ABB Social Policy. sustainability dashboard to help ABB businesses track their All countries were asked to formally report on this principle. performance on greenhouse gas reduction. There were 25 substantiated cases of harassment and one • ABB has implemented a robust protocol for auditing of supof discrimination in 2018, resulting in 12 terminations of pliers’ environmental performance, auditing a further 190 employment. suppliers during 2018. • ABB also has country-specific procedures and programs • ABB issued an updated statement on climate change and to ensure that policies are fully observed and comply with global warming in support of the Paris agreement and climate national legislation. policies that encourage early adoption of clean technologies • Equal opportunity and freedom from discrimination are and energy efficiency. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion • ABB’s integrity program is recognized externally for its conof environmentally friendly technologies tinued excellence. For the sixth consecutive year, in 2018, • Covered by ABB’s Code of Conduct. we retained our Ethisphere Compliance Leader Verification • Energy-efficient products, renewable energy equipment and seal of recognition. e-mobility identified as a key driver for ABB’s business oppor• During 2018, Ethisphere conducted a review and analysis of tunities. In 2018, ABB was ranked #8 on Fortune’s list of comABB’s anti-corruption and anti-bribery programs and pracpanies that change the world for our e-mobility technology. tices (“Anti-Bribery Management System or ABMS”). EthiAt COP24 in Katowice, ABB was recognized for our e-mobility sphere’s assessment process utilizes the recently-released contribution, while the Polish Alternative Fuels Association ISO 37001.2016 standards, and involves a comprehensive reand PwC ranked ABB as the “Electromobility Leader 2018”. view and evaluation of ABB’s existing anti-bribery manage• Transfer of technologies and best practices between counment systems, corporate governance systems and practices, tries to ensure same level of environmental performance and includes a survey deployed to a statistically significant throughout Group. cross-sample of ABB employees with bribery and corruption • Group-wide list of prohibited substances for products and risk exposure. Ethisphere determined that ABB’s ABMS and processes is continually reviewed and updated. The phasing relevant programs and initiatives meet or exceed the Verificaout of hazardous substances is part of ABB sustainability tion criteria. As such, Ethisphere licensed to ABB the use objectives. of its Ethisphere Anti-Bribery Management Systems • ABB GATE model for product and process development conVerification logo. tains defined steps for considering improvements in environ• ABB is one of the founding members of Ethics and Compliment and safety performance. The processes supporting the ance Switzerland (ECS; May 2014). ECS promotes the develophealth, safety and environment checklist for the GATE model ment of a compliance community across all sectors and orgawere strengthened during 2018. nizations in Switzerland and the establishment and sharing of compliance best practices. It is the first NGO in Switzerland connecting private and public-sector organizations and their Anti-corruption officers and employees who share an interest in best practice on integrity and compliance management. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption • ABB in Brazil remains recognized as a Pró-Ética (Pro-Ethics) in all its forms, including extortion and bribery company by Instituto Ethos and the Brazilian government, • Covered by ABB Group Code of Conduct, the ABB Supplier an initiative recognized by the OECD. The next evaluation Code of Conduct (updated in 2018), Principle 4 of ABB Human will be conducted during 2019. Rights Policy, and Principle 13 of Social Policy. • Underpinned by zero tolerance policy on non-compliance. • During the second quarter of 2018 ABB rolled out a new ”InAdditional information tegrity Starts with You” Code of Conduct e-learning module across ABB Group to all employees with an e-mail address Policies (the white collar community). At 2018 year-end we achieved ABB has Group-wide policies: The Health, Safety, Environment, over 98 percent completion for the e-learning, covering Security and Sustainability Policy, Social Policy, Human Rights nearly 98,000 employees. Policy, as well as a Code of Conduct. These can be found online • In 2018, in addition to the usual Integrity e-learning curricuand are also referenced in ABB Group’s annual Sustainability lum, we rolled out a training course on Global Data Protection Performance Report. to nearly 98,000 employees; at the end of 2018 over 96 percent had completed the course. Reporting • ABB offers a number of different reporting channels, includABB’s sustainability performance is compiled in an annual Susing a third party-held Business Ethics hotline available tainability Performance Report which measures the company’s 24/7 where employees can report concerns confidentially. performance against the Global Reporting Initiative’s indica• As part of the anti-corruption program, ABB continued to tors. The 2018 Sustainability Performance Report is published carry out several additional training and communication iniin March 2019. Further detail on ABB’s environmental, social, tiatives in 2018, focusing on company leadership and middle human rights, and health and safety performance can be management, and including Code of Conduct and anti-bribfound on www.abb.com/sustainability ery e-learning, integrity leadership development sessions, Value Pair workshops, and case studies provided through Main partnerships our “Integrity on the Business Agenda” initiative, and proacABB is a member of many international groups and organizative action such as anti-bribery compliance reviews of ABB tions, apart from the Global Compact. Listed below are some units around the world. of the principal associations and initiatives with which ABB • The “Integrity on the Business Agenda” program promotes is involved in the area of sustainability: ownership and accountability for integrity at local business • Global Business Initiative on Human Rights level. The Group Integrity team has developed Group-wide • Global Reporting Initiative and Division-specific case materials for team discussions led • Institute for Human Rights and Business by local business unit managers. The Divisions are responsi• Ethics and Compliance Switzerland ble for making sure that the topics are discussed and relevant • International Committee of the Red Cross actions implemented across their business, and progress and • World Business Council for Sustainable Development completion is tracked. In 2018, further case studies were de• World Economic Forum veloped based on feedback gathered from the Anti-Bribery and Integrity Awareness Assessment (Survey) that was conducted during the year.
