UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) ODONTOPREV 2018 INDEX MESSAGE FROM THE CEO ............................. 03 01. ODONTOPREV .................................................... 04 02. GENERAL PRINCIPLES..................................... 06 03. SUSTAINABILITY VISION ................................ 08 04. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ........................ 11 05. PRINCIPLES OF LABOUR ............................... 17 06. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES .................... 23 07. ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLES .................. 30 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) ODONTOPREV 2018 Odontoprev S.A. Period covered by the Progress Communication (COP) From January to December/2018 Continued Support Statement by Chief Executive Officer (CEO) November, 2019 To all participants: I have the pleasure to communicate that Odontoprev S.A. reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Fight Against Corruption. In this annual communication, we describe our improvements for the integration of the Global Pact and its Principles in our business strategy, culture and daily operations and we are committed to share this information with our main stakeholders. Cordially, Rodrigo Bacellar Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 01 ODONTOPREV ABOUT ODONTOPREV VALUES For over 30 years, OdontoPrev has been exclusively The Company wants everyone who interacts with dedicated to one mission: bring society closer to OdontoPrev to feel this is an organization which is worth Odontology. And we are very proud that today we it. Therefore, the Company believes it is essential: deliver high quality oral care solutions to our more than 7 million beneficiaries through our accredited • To offer high quality and technically competent services. network with over 28 thousand dentists, covering approximately 2,600 Brazilian municipalities. We are • To have relationships based on respect, transparency, a public company since 2006, leader in dental plans integrity and trust. in South America, and the largest healthcare operator in Brazil in terms of number of clients. The Company • To face challenges in a participative, flexible manner is listed in the B3 New Market, participates from the and firmness of purpose. British Index FTSE4Good, and quarterly distributes results to shareholders in over 30 countries. • To acknowledge and share the success with who effectively contribute to it. In 2018 we made significant progress in several aspects. The company continued to present solid • To have constant commitment, focus and competence and consistent results with growth acceleration, in the pursuit of results. cash generation, shareholders remuneration and net income, adding value to our stakeholders. MISSION, VISION, VALUES AND GENERAL PRINCIPLES MISSION To become a major link between society and dentistry, adding value to this relationship by providing excellent services to both. VISION To be a benchmark in dental care services for millions of people throughout the world, significantly contributing to the evolution of these services. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 5 02 GENERAL PRINCIPLES The actions of the OdontoPrev are guided by the following general principles: • Respect and appreciation of human beings and their fundamental rights. • Adoption of effective sustainable development practices; • Integrity, ethics and transparency; • Commitment to excellence with beneficiaries, clients and accredited network. KEY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 BUSINESS 11% increase Acquisition 44,5%, Dental Care Record number Our General Satisfaction in Net Income; of Odonto Ratio, best performance of shareholders, Index reached 8,57, above System; since 2009; surpassing 10 2017. thousand EXCELLENCE AND INNOVATION 14 digital squads with an 42 thousand hours of R$ 7 million average term of 3 months for development of software invested in each new delivery. and applications. innovation. ENVIRONMENTAL Emission of 684 tons of Compensation of more than 20% We have saved Reduction in all discasrds, CO2, 29% lower than 2017 the amount of emissions in the last 363 thousand with focus on paper, 10 years by planting trees. kw/h of energy; reduced by 60%. Recycling of 18kg of We saved 10 million papers and We saved 2.1 tons of paper (equivalent amalgam since the beginning X-rays due to the Rede UNNA to 23 trees) with the application for of the project in 2005 application. brokers. SOCIAL 20 supported institutions 6.854 children 6.700 dental 7 social events, that impacted of which 15 have been assisted in t r e a t m e n t s 1,050 children. supported for over 20 years. 2018 concluded in 2018 Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 7 03 SUSTAINABILITY VISION The concept of sustainable development has been a Since 2008, OdontoPrev is a signatory of the Global part of OdontoPrev’s culture since its creation. For us, Compact, an initiative promoted by the United Nations sustainability is the process of continuous creation of Organization (UN), which intends to mobilize the value, and fosters the balance between the economic, business community for the adoption of sustainable social and environmental fields, known as “Triple Bottom values. In our daily work routine, we actively work with Line”. In order to structure activities around the theme, programs connected to the 10 principles determined OdontoPrev has taken sustainability to the institutional by the Global Compact in the pillars of Human Rights, frameworks of the company, which must be followed by Labor Relationships, Environmental Management and every team. Anticorruption System. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 9 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Business should: Business should: 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental proclaimed human rights. challenges. 2. Ensure that they are not complicit in human rights 8. Undartake initiatives to promote greater environmental abuses. responsability. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of OBJECTIVES: technologies that do not harm / impair the environment. Objective 3: Health and well-being Ensure a healthy life and promote well-being for all, at OBJECTIVES: all ages. Objective 6: Clean water and sanitation Objective 5: Gender equality Ensure the availability and sustainable management of Achieve gender equality and empower all women and water and sanitation for all. girls. Objective 12: Responsible consumption and production Ensure sustainable production and consumption patterns OdontoPrev Actions Objective 17: Partnerships and means of implementation • Internal Climate Survey; Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize • HR vai até Você (HR Goes to You); the global partnership for sustainable development. • Women’s Empowerment Principles • Whistleblowing Channel; OdontoPrev Actions • HR Responds; • Reflorestation program; • Diversity Group. • Amalgam Recycling Program; • Investment in Easy Dental technology LABOR PRINCIPLES Business should: ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLES 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective Business should: recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 10. Business should work against corruption in all its 4. The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory forms, including extortion and bribery. labor. 5. The effective abolition of child labor OBJECTIVES: 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Objective 16: Peace, Justice and Effective Institutions and occupation. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build OBJECTIVES: effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all Objective 4: Quality Education levels. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education, and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. OdontoPrev Actions • Anti-Corruption Program; OdontoPrev Actions • OdontoPrev is nonpartisan, does not make contributions • Young Entrepreneurs Program; and does not endorse political campaings. • Internal Accident Prevention Committee (CIPA). Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 10 04 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 1: to identify whether such complaint and/or denunciation is well founded or unfounded. If appropriate, a more Businesses should support and respect the protection of thorough investigation is performed by the Internal Audit internationally proclaimed human rights; and Department, Human Resources or the Legal Department. Suspected cases are brought to the Verification and PRINCIPLE 2: Ethics Committee for review, sanctions and/or requests for corrections or process improvements. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Well-founded complaints are also presented to the OdontoPrev supports and respects the protection of Presidency and the Audit Committee for information internationally recognized human rights and ensures purposes. The Presidency or the Audit Committee the non-participation in the violation of such rights. The presents the most relevant cases to the Board of Directors. company, through the actions of its managers, ensures If necessary, additional corrective actions are taken. that the people who work at its facilities have their rights fully respected, and are committed to avoiding Sanctions and corrective actions on complaints are complicity in human rights abuses in all business units. presented to those responsible for the Management, Internal Audit, Human Resources and/or the Legal In order to ensure the protection of such rights, Department of the Company, ensuring the constant OdontoPrev developed the following mechanisms: improvement and fairness of the processes. Whistleblowing Channel Internal audit maintains a record of reports received: The Whistleblowing Channel is the primary method for Variation 2017 2018 2017 x 2018 communication of employees, customers, beneficiaries, Contacts Received 496 401 -1% accredited network, partners, suppliers, shareholders and Complaints received 20 22 +10% external public to confidentially report cases of violation of the Code of Ethical Conduct from OdontoPrev, including Complaints investigated 19 18 -5% situations of coercion or harassment, which may cause Well-founded complaints 5 13 +160% harm to the image or business of the Company, as well as issues that are inconsistent with legal provisions and With regards to well-founded complaints, the following regulatory instruments. sanctions were applied and the following correctives actions were requested: employee orientation, dismissal Complaints and/or denunciation may be made to the of employees, release of rules for employees, termination Internal Audit Department in person, by letter, e-mail, or of contracts with partners/suppliers, requesting the via the Whistleblowing Channel, available on the website reimbursement of amounts to partners/suppliers, of the Company. The identity of the complainant is improvement of the operational processes, creation of treated confidentially. Upon receipt of the complaint, the policies or procedures. Internal Audit Department makes an initial investigation Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 12 Investigation and Ethics Committee and the Chief Auditor. If any report involves any member of the Investigation and Ethics Committee, the Head of The Investigation and Ethics Committee is the Internal Audit, responsible for receiving all reports, shall organization responsible for receiving, assessing, report the matter to the Audit Committee. On the other investigating, and recommending process improvements hand, complaints involving the President of OdontoPrev and sanctions to violators of all complaints received are forwarded to the Board of Directors. through the Whistleblowing Channel; the Committee is also responsible for monthly reporting to the OdontoPrev The composition and mode of operation of the Chief Executive Officer, and every six months to the Investigation and Ethics Committee are presented in the Audit Committee of the Company. Considering its Code of Ethical Conduct of the Company, a practical, importance, the Investigation and Ethics Committee personal and professional guide that must be used is comprised by an interdisciplinary, senior and senior by every employee and managers in the respective management group of the Company, including the interactions and daily decisions. Director of Human Resources, the Chief Administrative and Financial Officer, the Chief of the Legal Department Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 13 Climate Survey The climate is usually very positive, and the Company maintains climate research groups to evaluate and OdontoPrev works in a continuous and focused manner think about solutions to further improve employee in the professional development of its employees, as well satisfaction. The success of the work is seen in the very as in the improvement of the internal climate. In addition high grades and level of engagement. to measuring the satisfaction level, the survey considers the degree of engagement of employees. Data are As a result of the climate and the appreciation of tabulated by a specialized and independent company, professionals, turnover was stable between 2017 enabling the comparison of results with other companies, and 2018, in the order of 7.4%, a result considered whether from the health sector or from other segments. low compared to the market and in view of the total number of employees working in the Company. The The survey is applied to 100% of the employees, with index showed a slight increase of 0.2 percentage points 85% participation in 2016, 91.2% in 2017 (record since the compared to 2017. beginning of its application), and 88% in 2018. It consists of 8 question blocks distributed among the following Managers have a climate change target for their area themes: Company Image, Strategy, Physical Environment, that weighs 5% on individual goals. The other employees Work Planning and Organization, Immediate Leadership, have no goal related to the organizational climate, thus Development, Engagement, Organizational Relationships avoiding any kind of influence on the quality of employee and Compensation and Benefits. There are also 2 open responses. questions, for the most positive and negative aspects. In these questions the participation is around 80%, that is, This initiative allows for the identification of strengths, the majority of the employees answer quite completely weaknesses and priority improvement points in these open questions. the relationship with the internal public and the establishment of action plans to continue evolving. The The results of the climate survey presented annually implementation of these plans is monitored throughout to the entire organization, from the Board of Directors, the year. Executive Directors, to the teams. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 14 Climate and Culture Group among the main initiatives of this group, we highlight the In an increasingly competitive and dynamic market, Career Workshop and “Show your Department”, which companies must find solutions that make them more consists in presenting the daily routine, activities and solid in face of changes and innovations. Considering projects from several departments within the company this scenario, since 2016, we have created the Climate to every interested employee. and Culture Group, composed by leaders that are highly engaged with the company and influence the The objective of the group is to improve even more the construction of an entrepreneurial culture. In 2018, engagement and satisfaction of employees with actions that make sense in the daily lives of people, that are aligned with the culture and values we seek to strengthen in the company. These actions were validated by top management, that has supported the group for the construction of a competitive and attractive company in the labor market. HR Answers (RH Responde) Through a specific e-mail, employees submit their doubts, compliments, complaints and suggestions regarding matters that affect their daily lives, not necessarily related to Human Resources matters. The goal of the Human Resources department is to answer the requests receives within a period of 48 hours, which has been fulfilled. In 2018, a total of 5,184 requests were received (4% below the 5,401 requests received during 2017). These e-mails are analyzed and forwarded to the department in charge. Approximately 96% of the requests are answered directly by the Human Resources Department, where the majority is related to doubts regarding benefits. HR Goes to You (RH Vai Até Você) We have the “Chat with Leadership” program, where the company directors go to branches to talk about their departments and business strategies. In 2018 we had 16 meetings in 13 branches. This program is part of the internal communication process. The Executive Directors and/or Human Resources regularly visit the units, group branches and headquarters. The meetings include all departments and levels. The objective of these visits is to listen to expectations, concerns, suggestions, provide clarification and orientation. Beforehand, employees are notified about the presence of a Human Resources representative and may schedule individual conversation at determined periods of time. Many situations are resolved / clarified in loco, while other matters are taken to headquarters, for further understanding and answered within 48 hours. Many of the matters raised alter company processes. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 15 Women Empowerment (Empoderamento Feminino) With the objective of empowering women and promoting gender equality, OdontoPrev maintains constant contact with UN Women and the Global Compact, in 2017, with the objective of becoming a signatory of the Women Empowerment Principles that establish directives to help the business community incorporate values and practices that aim for equality and empowerment of professionals. And in 2018, the Company took an important step, becoming the signatory of the Women Empowerment Principles, created in 2010 by the United Nations Organization and Global Compact. Therefore, the Company became part of a group with over 1,700 companies around the globe (155 companies in Brazil) that made a public commitment to empower women and promote gender equality in the workplace, in its value chain and in the communities where these companies operate. The measure is supported by practices already adopted by OdontoPrev. Among such, the support to pregnant women or that return from maternity leave; the sole criteria, independently of gender, for recruitment, performance evaluation, training, mentorship and retention, is salary equality for genders in the same job position. In the last year, about 75% of the staff was composed by women, as well as 42% of professionals in the network of accredited dentists. Diversity Group (Grupo de Diversidade) In June 2018, OdontoPrev employees created the OdontoPrev Diversity Group, whose purpose is to discuss and propose ways to make the environment of the 75% company more inclusive and diverse. In just one semester, In the last year seven face-to-face meetings and numerous discussions were held by the group. This action has already resulted in two concrete actions, which were an internal notice and an introductory lecture on diversity. The initiatives aimed of the staff was composed by to highlight the issue for all employees and reinforce the women. commitment of the Company to the theme. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 16 05 PRINCIPLES OF LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3: The employment and exploitation of children and young people below the legal working age is not permitted Businesses should uphold the freedom of association under any circumstances, as we do not maintain business and the effective recognition of the right to collective relationships or hire services from organizations that bargaining; adopt any form of child labor. PRINCIPLE 4: The company is committed to the Code of Ethics and Conduct, aimed at respecting and valuing human beings Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; and respective fundamental rights, adopting effective sustainable development practices, integrity, ethics and PRINCIPLE 5: transparency. Part of the recruitment process is the submission of each new employee to electronic training The effective abolition of child labour; and and related tests. Periodically, the training course is reviewed and all employees undergo training again. PRINCIPLE 6: OdontoPrev has made a commitment to the National Pact for the Eradication of Slave-like Labor, which The elimination of discrimination in respect of represents a commitment as not to admit slave labor in employment and occupation. the production chain, as the Company is against child labor and does not accept this practice from suppliers OdontoPrev supports union association initiatives and and service providers. values other forms of voluntary employee organization, who are entitled to free association with labor unions. All The Company adopts contractual clauses that emphasize employees are represented by unions across the country. the non-association of its employees, partners, suppliers and other interested parties with slave and child labor. Additionally, the company is expressly against child, forced or slave-like labor and does not accept such Additionally, the OdontoPrev Code of Ethical and practice from suppliers and service providers. In addition Conduct provides for freedom of association, collective to contracting suppliers and establishing business bargaining, the elimination of forced and child labor, relationships with partners that operate with compatible and discrimination; and to ensure access to these ethical standards, through a rigorous selection process, policies, in addition to acknowledgement when giving extensive knowledge of the rules and conditions recruited, employees and all audiences interacting with governing the ethical behavior of the company. It is OdontoPrev have access to the Code of Ethical Conduct noteworthy that OdontoPrev was never associated with through the Portal. Partners and suppliers also sign an any kind of child labor. acknowledgement term, which attests full knowledge of the contents of such document. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 18 Performance Management Cycle (Ciclo de gestão de participant to be a protagonist and to take a proactive desempenho) role in directing their own project. Every employee is eligible to the performance assessment process which contemplates the assessment of goals and Apprentice Program (Programa Aprendiz) competencies. This cycle contemplates formal feedback meetings and aims at aligning career expectations, With a focus on the inclusion of young professionals clarify strong points and improvement points and above 16 years of age, the Company promotes their define the individual development plan. Since 2018, the technical capacitation. The program was designed competency assessment will use the 360º Methodology to deliver a complete training with distance learning for the management levels and remaining levels will (ODL) and face-to-face activities, in order to prepare undergo the 90º assessment or self-assessment and the Young Apprentice for future challenges and for assessment of the immediate manager is made. the continuous improvement of daily activities. The program, lasting 15 months, occurs under the guidance Young Entrepreneurs (Jovens Empreendedores) of partners specialized in youth training, such as the Recruitment and development program for recently “Vias de Acesso” and “Ser Mais”, as well as monitoring graduated young professionals, lasting one year, by the Human Resources Department. In 2018, 33 Young stimulates participants to develop a systemic and Apprentices reached the end of the contract, and 40% comprehensive view of the Company. These young were hired by the company. professionals conduct multidisciplinary projects and are encouraged to participate in strategic decisions processes The apprentice assessment process is carried out in and conclude the cycle ready to assume positions with the same way as other employees, composed by a differentiated responsibility, such as business analyst competency assessment and focus on the career and and senior consultant. In 2018, 4 recently graduated development process. professionals entered the program. Since its creation, in 2010, 36 Young Professionals were hired, and 20 of them Internal Opportunity Program (Programa de remain in the Company (55% retention). There are cases Oportunidade Interna) of participants occupying managerial positions today. The OdontoPrev Human Resources Policy establishes One of the differentiating aspects is the coaching work, that first a professional should be sought internally, through which these Young Professionals can improve following basic requirements, such as having at least competencies throughout eight individual sessions. one year of company experience, have reached at least Aligned with OdontoPrev objective in capacitating 90% of the goal in the last performance evaluation leaders, the coaching process seeks to encourage the and the requirements necessary for the position. In 2018, approximately 300 employees participated from recruitment processes in the internal opportunities program. In total, 46 vacancies were released internally and 33 candidates were approved, in order words, an occupancy rate of 72%, a 28% increase when compared to 2017. This has enabled, for example, Call Center employees / cleaning teams to gain opportunities in other deparments and self-manage their careers according to their interests. Since its creation, in 2010, 36 Young Professionals were hired In order to enable access to new knowledge, we have the OdontoPrev University, which allows employees from all levels to attend courses focusing on development, and 20 of them remain in the learning new content and employability. For leadership Company (55% retention). positions, we have a Leader Development Program that covers behavioral training, online training, reading and practical exercises that enable managers to improve leadership competencies. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 19 Leadership Development Program – Leadership in Action (Programa de Desenvolvimento de LiderançaLiderança em Ação) In 2017 we launched the 1st Leadership Development Program that covers all leadership levels of the Company. A survey was carried out to understand the company leadership needs and, based on this survey, in the assessments applied to this audience, we developed a customized and updated content, with theoretical and practical content, knowledge exchange and important considerations for the leadership exercise. The modules were designed in accordance to each level and some actions complement the program, such as the Chat with Leadership which is a meeting with market leaders who share their experiences and results in an open chat, providing some insights and the exchange of good practices. In addition, we also have newsletters with relevant content related to the matter. There are 6 modules for managers, superintendents and supervisors, 4 modules for leaders and 2 workshops for directors. We had 100% leadership participation and a Talent Attraction (Atração de Talentos) high level of satisfaction. In 2018, 397 professionals were hired (compared to 426 in 2017 and 258 in 2016); and 131 promotions (compared In 2018, we continued the Leadership Program started to 102 in 2017, and 115 in 2016). in 2017 and, in order to conclude the program with Below, the composition of the professionals hired in 2016, practical results, participants were trained with a 2017 and 2018: problem-solving methodology, having identified some challenges that the Company would like to resolve, and Gender 2016 2017 2018 proposed new processes to overcome these challenges. The work was presented to the executives using the Female 75% 69% 77% methodology learned and some groups continued the Male 25% 31% 23% study for possible implementation in 2019. Age Range 2016 2017 2018 Up to 30 years old 65% 62% 62% From 30 to 50 years old 34% 35% 37% Over 50 years old 1% 3% 1% Location 2016 2017 2018 Southeast 94% 97% 95% Northeast 3% 2% 3% South 3% 1% 2% North 0% 0% 0% Midwest 0% 0% 0% Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 20 MORE TRAINING INITIATIVES Multipliers League Training program that unites Insper Project OdontoPrev was an object of study collaborators who are reference in certain knowledge students from Insper, of partnership between the and are willing to share with other people. In 2018, 25 Company and the educational institution. The students professionals participated as multipliers. immersed themselves in the Company to analyze a specific issue. In the end, they reached important Human Resources Round Table Meeting with Human conclusions, pointing out possible improvements for Resources managers from the largest companies in 2019. It was a way of receiving a different perspective Brazil. The goal is to share market trends, exchange and having the corporate model tested with academic experiences and cases. In 2018, one of the themes was and statistical tools. “Diversity in Business”. Language Courses Incentive program that provides 3rd OdontoPrev Education Week The company reimbursement of up to 70% of the value of monthly received 24 educational partners in Graduation, Postpayments. Graduation and MBA, Languages and Technical Courses, in the headquarters and 5 branches. At the time, discounts of up to 50% were granted for courses, some of which were extended to employees’ family members. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 21 HEALTH AND SAFETY The company maintains an Internal Accident Prevention The Company constantly seeks and, with the support of Commission (CIPA), which is composed by employees the Building Administration Department, to accompany, who, in addition to the activities related to their respective supervise and monitor its facilities, so that all employees job position, act as multipliers and agents focused on are comfortably installed and not exposed to risks. This was reducing accidents and occupational diseases. and indicator well evaluated and recognized by employees in the Organizational Climate Survey. Since 2014 we have received the support from “Espaço Saúde” (Health Space), with the presence of a doctor With regards to Health, we have a Chronic Disease and nurse, every day of the week. The responsibility of and Healthy Pregnancy Program, which, with the help this department is to monitor the health of employees, of Bradesco, we perform careful monitoring of these providing guidance for good health promotion practices. employee’s health. In 2018, 5,482 medical consultations were performed (compared to 4,966 in 2017). Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 22 06 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 7: All the Company’s activities, products and services are in harmony with the environment, always aiming at the Business should support a precautionary approach to conservation for future generations, seeking to ensure environmental challenges; that the activities comply with legal requirements and applicable environmental standards, along with PRINCIPLE 8: continuous improvement in the work to prevent environmental degradation. In addition, the Company Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental is committed to reducing the environmental impacts of responsibility; and its processes, products and services, encouraging the research of new technologies, processes and inputs that PRINCIPLE 9: minimize such impacts, and is committed to maintaining an open dialogue with the community, customers and Encourage the development and diffusion of suppliers with the exchange of information on relevant environmentally friendly technologies. environmental issues. The Environmental Management performed by In 2015, we developed an applied training session that OdontoPrev focuses on four main aspects: energy, became mandatory in 2016 and involves knowing the water, Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG) and residue three Sustainability pillars: Social Action, Environment management. and Governance. The training sessions occurred in 2016 and all employees concluded the training session up to To address these aspects, the Company uses an approach date. to reduce the consumption through awareness-raising campaigns and more efficient technologies; reuse or OdontoPrev conducts several activities and actions that recycle as much as possible; and measure the impacts support the principles defended in the Environmental in nature to neutralize such effects with compensation Policy, such as: programs. Aware of the importance in incorporating social responsibility criteria in the business strategic management, the Company promotes initiatives focused on the well-being to society, monitoring its performance and seeking the continuous improvement, focusing on balancing the three sustainability pillars: environmental, economic and social. OdontoPrev is committed to preventive approaches to environmental challenges, as well as promoting environmental responsibility in its operations through awareness raising, environmental education and conscientious consumption education and is committed through the Environmental Policy, established in 2014 and updated in 2018, where OdontoPrev reinforces the commitment to make its activities compatible with environmental conservation, within the principles of Sustainable Development. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 24 Energy Management OdontoPrev has also invested in raising awareness of the rational use of natural resources. Throughout the One of the main elements for the company to achieve year, the Company promoted three campaigns at the good environmental performance is to work in a certified headquarters and branches, in offices of the accredited eco-efficiency headquarters building. network and in homes of the Company’s employees. The condominium, where the Company’s headquarters With all these initiatives, the 2018 energy consumption is located, has several technologies that contribute to had a significant decrease in comparison to the previous minimize the use of natural resources. One is the intelligent year. The total consumption was 1,025 kW/h, a 26% air conditioning and exhaust system, which reduces the reduction in relation to 2017. amount of equipment turned on during off-peak hours when there is less demand. Another important solution ENERGY (kw/h in thousands) is an internal plant, which is regularly turned-on at night 1.388 to generate sustainable resource optimization. 1.128 1.025 The building also has a climate control system, which provides intelligent management of electric charge demand and allows the reduction of energy consumption. The air conditioner is cooled with R407-C gas, which is used for emissions accounting. Gas is replaced only in case of leakage or maintenance and in 2018 there was no 2016 2017 2018 replacement or refill. The energy used by the OdontoPrev headquarters comes from the concessionaire that supplies the municipality of In 2018, we have maintained the actions carried out by Barueri (SP). In case of blackouts / lack of electric energy, the Economy Challenge Campaign, from 2017, which the building is self-sufficient through the generation of would invite employees to give suggestions on ways to electric energy using gas and diesel generators. save energy, including: Throughout the year, other technologies were Passwords for Printers: Prevents the unnecessary printing implemented in the offices for consumption reduction. of documents, saving energy and paper. The Company installed movement sensors in every room and corridors and limited the use of equipment according Access to Fire Escape Stairs: Reduces in over 50% the to period of the day – monitors would shut down employee traffic in elevators. As the Company is installed automatically when were no longer used. In addition, the in subsequent floors, requested the condominium Company has replaced fluorescent and incandescent to grant access to the fire escape stairs, in order for lamps by the much more efficient LED on all floors. employees to move in between floors using the stairs. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 25 Water Management Carbon Compensation Program The OdontoPrev headquarters building has a Sewage Since 2008 OdontoPrev counts on the support of Treatment Station (ETE) in which water is treated to be a specialized environmental consulting firm for the reused in irrigation systems for the building’s green areas, monitoring of carbon emission from energy consumption, toilet flushing and as a water reserve for firefighters. employees commuting (by road or by air), fleet fuel and hauling. Based on calculations, such consulting firm The water treatment process at the Sewage Treatment verifies the necessary number of trees to be sowed to Station is effective. During the recycling process, neutralize the equivalent carbon and compensate the approximately 25% of water is lost through evaporation, emissions of greenhouse gas emission. and virtually all of the water is reused. Of the total water used by OdontoPrev, 72% is reused and recycled. The In 2018, the Company emitted a total of 79.5t of CO2 residue left from the sewage treatment is properly (Scope 1), or 29% less than 2017, results from an initiative discarded. to create a GHG Inventory, and as consequence, data control. The elements that compose the emission Water consumption control is done by the condominium, from Scope 1 for the company are: stationary diesel which prepares a monthly report to monitor expenditures combustion by generator, effluent from building activities and identify problems, such as water leakages. The and fugitive refrigerant emissions and CO2 emissions Company has ongoing campaigns to remind employees from fire extinguishers. For Scope 2 and 3 on the other of the importance of saving water. hand, the inventory measured the emissions associated to the acquisition of electricity, land and air trips. A In 2018, OdontoPrev consumed 9.921 m2 of water significant improvement was also detected in this group. originated from the public supply system. An increase of Throughout the year, OdontoPrev accounted for 605 24% was recorded in comparison to 2017. tons of CO2 21% less than the previous year. In total, the operations carried out by OdontoPrev emitted 684 tons of CO2 in 2018, a reduction of 29% over the previous year. The result reflects widespread WATER MANAGEMENT performance improvement as a result of innovation 2016 2017 2018 efforts for eco-efficiency and the spread of the concept of conscious consumption. Advances were noted such as lower energy consumption, 2.328,4 4,025,80 4.449,6 4,315.27 1,580.85 8.023,2 9.921.92 reduced physical shipment of materials and a decrease 1.112,7 4.210,1 2.431,7 1.245,2 7.754,5 in employee travel by motor vehicles. Public water Reused Tank truck Total supply water CONSUMPTION PARAMETERS (ml) 9.921 8.023 7.754 2016 2017 2018 Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 26 Planting of Native Tree Waste Management With the objective of replanting trees in degraded OdontoPrev manages solid residues, which allows the parks of large Brazilian cities, this project underwent Company to perform the correct disposal of residues a reformulation in 2016 and 2017 with the objective of and becomes aware of the generated volume, enable the raising society awareness to ecological issues, as well establishment of a plan for the reduction of residue. as providing green spaces for leisure. Until 2016, the planting of native trees was done in riverheads and/or The waste produced is destined to a third-party deforested regions, contributing to the creation of an company, which recycles and inventories the generated ecological corridor in the Vale do Paraíba (SP) region. waste. The contracted company is specialized in this In 2017 and 2018, the initiative was performed at the service and holds a CADRI (Waste of Environmental Cândido Portinari Park in the city of São Paulo and over Interest Handling Certificate) properly updated. Issued the next few years will continue to plant trees in green by CETESB (Environmental Sanitation Technology areas around the city of São Paulo and metropolitan Company), the CADRI is a certificate that approved areas. With this, the idea is to impact and contribute for the destination of waste of environmental interest for the maintenance and growth of green areas in the urban places for the reprocessing, storage, treatment or final scenario. disposition. For 2019 the action is planned to be performed at On a monthly basis, the Company receives a consolidated Gabriel Chucre Park, in the municipality of Carapicuíba report issued by the building’s administration and related SP, near the headquarter building of the company. With to the generation of recyclable and organic waste, the planting of Ipê Roxo, Ipê Branco, Pitangueira among allowing the control, comparison between information other native species, the activity will be supported by and, consequently, actions for reduction. our employees as volunteers. In the same manner, the Company recycles office materials and old communication articles, including Since the beginning of the project, monitors, computer keyboards and brochures. Other a total of materials used in more expressive volume are plastic 13,277 cups and printing paper. It is noteworthy that all A4 paper trees were purchased comes from reforestation, with certificate. planted, In addition to recycling, the Company adopts equivalent to 15 soccer fields technologies that help reduce waste generation. This is (109,505 square meters of the case with the inclusion of passwords in the printer recovered area). system in 2018. Measures of this nature, combined with conscious consumption campaigns, have resulted in a drastic reduction in paper disposal, as shown in the graph below. Waste is sealed with a clamp for identification and sent for measurement and correct disposal disposal to landfill or recycling. The effectiveness of this management is assessed through internal reports. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 27 Investment in Technology with Environmental Impact Recycled Variation 2016 2017 2018 Radiographs must be included in the patient’s record Material 2018 x 2017 Paper Disposal for analysis and support to the OdontoPrev accredited 14.227 7.882 3.117 -60% (kg) network professional. In the process of processing x-rays, Plastic Disposal 2.970 2.793 3.344 +20% however, the utilization of chemical products, including (kg) Aluminum silver, is required. In addition, all radiographs should be 31 323 58 -82% Disposal (kg) forwarded to OdontoPrev and subsequently returned to Glass Disposal 97 154 24 -84% the office. To minimize the environmental impacts of the (kg) processing process and reduce the necessity for mailing, OdontoPrev has developed specific and innovative RECYCLED MATERIALS (Kg) technologies. 14.227 In 2013 a portal for the accredited network was created, whereby images can be transmitted over the internet. The online delivery of dental treatment images replaces the otherwise only mail delivery option. To make the delivery of images even easier, without the need of computers and intraoral or photography cameras, an app called 7.882 UNNA Network was developed, making the transmission of images from dental offices simpler and more agile, ultimately speeding up the accredited network´s service process. 2.970 3.344 3.117 2.793 1. The dentist accesses the UNNA Network app. 2. When radiographs are not necessary: the dentists make photos of patients’ images and documents. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 When radiographs are necessary: the dentists use the PAPER DISPOSAL PLASTIC DISPOSAL app to transmit images, with no need of providing images physically. 3. The related data remain filed at the individual patient’s 31 323 58 97 154 24 records. 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 4. The process prevents the processing of a portion of ALUMINUM DISPOSAL GLASS DISPOSAL the radiographs, and the emission of CO2. In addition to the technologies used by dental offices, a tool was developed in 2016 to be used by the accredited network’s radiology centers. By using the uploader technology, radiology clinics no longer need to print radiographic documentations and can send them only by digital means to OdontoPrev, which, subsequently, makes images available to the beneficiary, and the dentist responsible for their treatment. It was implemented and announced for the accredited network, compose by 2 thousand radiologic clinics, in 2017. In the year, 70% of the accredited clinics were equipped by the uploader of radiologic exams platform. Though the “Dentista Amigo da Natureza” Program, OdontoPrev stimulates that the radiologic exam be taken in a digital way, eliminating printing, and consequently, waste generation. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 28 The program’s acceptance rate was quite high. With this, The tools developed are user-friendly and provide by the end of 2018, 89% of the radiological exams were gains in terms of daily routines at clinics as well as the already submitted through the X-ray image uploader, preservation of natural resources. The platforms allow, versus 69% in 2016. for example, the electronic transferring of images and exams, as well as keeping information regarding a In 2017, OdontoPrev started a contracting process of an patient’s treatment online. These tools include: outsourced company to recycle the printed radiograph received. After the image is properly scanned, the • Rede UNNA Application; recycling procedure involves the removal of metals from the radiograph paper, including silver, and the separation • Digital File; of plastic for reuse. • Rede UNNA Portal; PROPORTION OF IMAGES RECEIVED THROUGH • Uploader of radiological images. ANALOGIC AND DIGITAL CHANNELS Amalgam Recycling Program (Programa de Reciclagem 2016 69% 31% 6,037,550 de Amálgama) 2017 84% 16% 9,524,632 Amalgam is a material used as a restorer by dental surgeons and is composed by heavy and toxic metals, 2018 89% 11% 11,477,248 including mercury and silver, thus, when improperly discarded, may contaminate human beings and the Digital media Mail or (radiological uploader, mailbag environment. Aware of the importance of recycling portal or UNNA network this material, OdontoPrev maintains a partnership with application) University of São Paulo USP and with the accredited network of dentists for the development of new Channels to Receive 2015 2016 2017 2018 % technology to recycle amalgam. Images Images sent via 1,746,592 1,804,377 2,195,587 2,595,687 23% The project involves a partnership with government Portal Images health and environment agencies, such as Environmental sent via app 304,009 2,040,753 3,567,251 6,460,606 39% Sanitation Technology Company (Cetesb), Research Rede Unna and Measurement Institute (Ipem) and São Paulo Health Secretariat. In addition, amalgam packaging and transport are special and certified by the Technology Easy Dental Research Institute (IPT). With the objective of a reduction in paper consumption and the transport of clinical transportation by the Since the beginning of the project, in 2005, around accredited dentists network, our Company made 3,100 accredited dentists have adhered to the initiative available, with exclusive commercial conditions, the and already forwarded 18 kg of amalgam, from which acquisition of Easy Dental, which is a software for the approximately 8.5 kg of mercury and silver could be management of dental clinics. recovered. Nature Friendly Dentist (Dentista Amigo da Natureza) 1. Dentists are provided with a kit containing handling OdontoPrev created tools and processes that allow instructions and a container to accommodate the saving of natural resources in activities executed by amalgam waste. its accredited network, thus encouraging dentists’ 2. Professionals are instructed to forward the amalgam engagement in sustainable actions. In order to identify waste to USP Chemical Waste Laboratory in the the set of actions to be taken on the theme, the Nature municipality of Bauru, State of São Paulo. Friendly Dentist (Dentista Amigo da Natureza) seal was 3. The material is submitted to a recycling process. created by the Company. 4. The recycled material is sold. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 29 07 ANTICORRUPTION PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 10: The Company also has an Anticorruption Policy and Other Illicit Acts, approved by the Board of Directors in Business should work against corruption in all of its May/2017, which details the commitment in repudiation forms, including extortion and bribery. regarding corruption and other illicit acts, including fraud, according to the aforementioned Law Number 12,846/13. OdontoPrev does not allow any form of corruption, The Policy also informs the sensible departments in inclusively with regards to the terms determined relation to corruption acts, and the respective combat by Law Number 12,846/13 (Anticorruption Law). practices, responsible list and respective responsibilities These principles are expressed in the Code of Ethical regarding the matter, and also serves as an additional Conduct, which covers the following aspects: information with instructions for those related to the Complaint and Ethical Conduct Channel (previously • Mission, Vision and Values of the Company; mentioned under the Human Rights Principles). • Conflicts of Interest; In the same manner, a Fight Against Corruption Program was developed and is being released to every employee • Internal Relations and those in the Working of the Company. Environment; The Fight Against Corruption Program includes: • Relations with Clients and Suppliers; 1. A Code of Ethical Conduct that is released to all • Relations with Shareholders and the Capital Market OdontoPrev’s collaborators and partners. The Code attest that certain expected ethical conduct is applicable • Relations with Governments, Governmental Organ, to all management, employees, partners and good and Regulators and Public Agencies; services suppliers. • Relations with the Media; 2. A corporate policy to combat corruption and other unlawful acts, with the description of the rules that • Confidentiality and Information Security; must be followed by OdontoPrev employees, in addition to determining the responsibilities of each one in the • Channel for Complaints and Ethical Conduct. process. The Policy requires that the accounting records and financial statements have adequate internal controls To ensure the best Corporate Governance practices, and are audited by an independent auditor; determines in addition to maintaining business in accordance that financial statements must be reviewed by the Audit with current legislation, OdontoPrev has developed its Committee and the Fiscal Council; establishes rules for Code of Ethical Conduct. the relation with the public sector and to participate in public biding; defines the process of review and approval As presented by the OdontoPrev Code of Ethical of donations to candidates and political parties; and Conduct, the Company does not tolerate any criminal informs on disciplinary measures in case of violations act or act contrary to current laws and norms. of the integrity program. It is worth mentioning that OdontoPrev corporate standards require a periodically evaluation and updates. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 31 3. The program promotion through adhesion terms and In 2014, OdontoPrev implanted its Ethics Course, mandatory training. mandatory for all of our collaborators; the objective being to update with respect to the items laid out in 4. The availability of a complaints channel of the Code of Ethical Conduct. Periodically, the Code is communication, with assurance that the complainant revised and all collaborators are informed about this identity will be kept confidential. and the course is revisited. Additionally, all collaborators sign a Term of Ethical Awareness, physically delivered 5. Definition of procedures for opportune interruption of to all at the moment of contracting or when there is a irregularities and remediation of damages. revision/updating. The Code is available on our Intranet and Internet for both our internal and external publics. 6. Verification of illicit acts in merger and acquisition processes. In case of any complaint / identification of any cases that may infringe the items described under the Code, these 7. Availability of a structure, with independence and shall be forwarded and analyzed by the Verification and authority, to review the Program’s applicability. Ethics Committee of the Company. 8. Continuous monitoring of the Program by the Chief We further highlight that corruption cases were neither Executive and Audit Committee. identified nor denounced for the years of 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. The aspects described above cover questions related to gifts, souveniers, benefits, advantages, favors and other courtesies; activities carried out outside of the Company; political activities; among others. Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 32 Communication on Progress (COP) | 2019 ODONTOPREV | 33
