OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Communication on Progress report 1 CONTENTS Key actions in 2018 PAGE 3 The President’s commitment PAGE 4 The Rossignol Group PAGE 5 Key dates in our sustainable campaign PAGE 6 Global Compact PAGE 7 Actions for progress Governance PAGE 8 Employees PAGE 9 Products PAGE 14 Production PAGE 16 Customers PAGE 17 Presence PAGE 18 Acknowledgments PAGE 21 CSR Progress PAGE 22 Lookup table PAGE 23 2 KEY ACTIONS IN 2018 Store openings Positive results for with sales staff: occupational Rossignol health and safety Developing a ambassadors Mise en strategy conformité RGPD CSR ECOCORICO p.9 based on our core actions p.8 VALUES Donations and clothing p.8 collection for the Riders For Refugees association Creation of innovative Questionnaire about p.13 p.12 p.18prototypes with Quality of Work Life senior high school students and Psychosocial Ski gear Design projects Risks 100% Made in France focused on with recycled materials our customers ATELIER S p.20 p.9 et 11 p.17 SUPPORTING the fight against breast cancer with the Finland Trophy Animal welfare and our clothing Websites p.14 p.18 p.15 adapted to local country culture More environmentally friendly helmets Compliant wastewater treatment p.16p.17 p.14 3 BACK TO CONTENT THE PRESIDENT’S COMMITMENT BRUNO CERCLEY Taking current social issues into account as part of our activity has been one of our priorities for several years now. We aim to maintain our economic performance, grow our companies and help our employees to thrive whilst reducing our impact on the environment and contributing to a sustainable future. Admittedly, our approach is still incomplete and imperfect, but we confirm our intention to make faster and increasingly virtuous progress by: building the Rossignol group for the future by working closely with our teams; sharing a common vision of sustainable development with all the Group’s brands and sites; manufacturing our products with environmentally friendly materials and processes; contributing to preserving our natural playground and the communities which sustain it. This third COP report presents our progress and demonstrates our renewed commitment to respect the principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact. Bruno CERCLEY President of the Rossignol Group 4 THE ROSSIGNOL GROUP WORLDWIDE INDUSTRIAL SITES The Group has five plants in Europe, including two in France. > Sallanches (Savoie, France): production of high-end skis for Rossignol and Dynastar and lowand mid-range injected skis. > Artés (Spain): this site is dedicated to the production of wood core alpine skis, traditional technology skis for Rossignol and Dynastar and high-end cross-country skis. > Nevers (France): bindings for the Look brand and pedals for the Time brand. NORTH AMERICA EUROPE JAPAN > Montebelluna (Italy): premium alpine boots for Rossignol and Lange and high-end Risport skates. > Park City (Utah USA) > France > Tokyo Conception & Design center for footwear, including Rossignol footwear. > Montreal > Italy + distribution in > Gajary (Slovakia): carbon frame production using RTM (Resin Transfer Molding) technology. > Germany 42 countries > Austria The Group also has a central logistics warehouse in Saint-Etienne de Saint Geoirs (Isère, France). > Switzerland > Norway Sweden WORKFORCE REVENUE SOURCES EEUROPE: 36%, NORTH AMERICA: 36%, FRANCE: 22%, JAPAN ASIA: 6% 15% 1400 730 Cycling World France 70% 15% Winter Sports equipment & gear Apparel et footwear 5 BACK TO CONTENT IMPORTANT DATES in our sustainable approach A commitment built over time 2013 Launch of the Rental New Deal initiative (see page 15) for 2011 recycling products at the end of their life cycle Relocation of our junior ski Creation of production from Taiwan to the Ecocorico group Sallanches 1907 (see page 13) First wooden skis manufactured in Voiron 2000 2009 (Isère, France) Special rates for employees in a dedicated store Construction of the headquarters in St Jean de Moirans (Isère) integrating 2012 environmentally friendly aspects in the Adoption of the label design and construction. “Origine France Garantie” 1970 2003 for products “Made in France” 2015 First ISO 14001 certification First eco-design product: Creation of a Ski Club for Joined Global Compact for the St Etienne de Crossey Attraxion Echo skis our employees’ children (see page 7) site (Isère) 6 BACK TO CONTENT GLOBAL COMPACT Global Compact is an international voluntary initiative for commitment to CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility), launched in July 2000 by the UN. This commitment to ongoing improvement is based on a sense of responsibility, transparency and common good. Rossignol Group has been a proud member of the Global Initiative since December 3, 2015. HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT 7. Support a precautionary approach to 1. Support and respect the protection of environmental challenges. internationally proclaimed laws for human rights. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater 2. Ensure absence of complicity with any environmental responsibility. Human Rights violations. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technology. 10 INTERNATIONAL LABOR PRINCIPLES STANDARDS ANTI-CORRUPTION 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective 10. Act against corruption in all its forms, recognition including extortion and bribery. of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. Contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 6. Contribute to the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. See page 23 for the link between our actions for progress, the ten principles of the Global Compact, the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and the seven key themes of the ISO 26000 standard. 7 GOVERNANCE ANTI-CORRUPTION ACTIONS A range of anti-corruption measures has been implemented. All our payments are countersigned. We have also applied stringent controls around payment means. Finally, we have established checking processes before refunding our customers. COMPLIANCE WITH THE GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION (GDPR) Since the beginning of 2017, a global audit with a project for reaching compliance has been conducted throughout the group. As a result, we have established a data processing register and mapped risks. All our employees have received memos to raise awareness in their departments. We have also called upon an external consultancy, Atos which assisted us for two days to prepare compliance with the regulation for BtoC. As a result, we were able to implement several actions including : revision of processing methods, modification of legal notices, opt-in updates, establishment of a procedure for the actual deletion of data. DEVELOPMENT OF AN CSR STRATEGY Through this we have met demands by consumers to delete all traces of their personal data: approx 20 requests from a database of 1.7 BASED ON OUR CORE VALUES million people. Simple VALUES: shared pleasure, conviviality A Data Protection Officer has been designated to ensure our personal data practices are monitored and revised. and tolerance. These values are true to mountains and sport: REINFORCED SUPPLIER’S CODE OF CONDUCT values we share and promote. Our revised Supplier’s Code of Conduct has been applied to all the Group’s activities. The standards are also more stringent, particularly for textiles (see page 14). Mountains a symbol of freedom deserve our RESPECT. RESPONSIBLE INTERNAL CSR COMMUNICATION Last year all the group’s employees were informed of our CSR actions with the publication of our 2017/18 COP. But it never appeared in printed form. Only seed-paper flyers were printed to announce the link to Four dimensions of RESPECT: the electronic version. > Respectful products: green design, environmental impact of production and recycling of products at the end of their life Seed-paper flyers to announce our 2017/18 COP. cycle. > Respect for our partners: CSR code of conduct, fair competition, anti-corruption actions. PROJECT > Respect for our employees. 2.0.1.9 A new version of our ERP system has the scope to redefine our security measures and improve our transaction protection with, for example, better traceability of user access rights. > Respect for our natural playground and its community: supporting associations, skill sponsorship, philanthropic actions. Information and training are planned regarding the Sapin 2 Law featuring notions of transparency, anti-corruption measures and the modernization of the economy. 8 EMPLOYEES Safety at work 1/2 PROJET PREVENTION OF MUSCULOSKELETAL PROBLEMS The Nevers plant has invested in robot grippers to facilitate the work of warehouse staff. Example of a visual used for safety meetings between employees and their managers. POSITIVE SAFETY RESULTS Frequency 2018/19 (end February 19): 9.44 (goal end March: <10) Severity rate 2018/19 (end February 19): 0.46 (goal end March: <0.5) We have put in place corrective actions identified in the 2017/18 COP with two flagship actions: The robotic gripper makes handling > Recruitment of permanent employees less arduous . at the St Etienne de St Geoirs warehouse. Using less temporary staff has reduced the number of accidents, because permanent QUESTIONNAIRE ABOUT PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS employees are more familiar with their A questionnaire about psychosocial risks has been distributed to all our sites. This project was greatly appreciated by employees who working environment. enjoyed the open exchange. Adapted corrective action plans have been developed and are currently being put in place. > Increase in the number of behavioral inspections and organization of regular safety meetings . The aim of these monthly CONTINUED IMPROVEMENT TO LABOR CONDITIONS meetings between teams and their leaders 50% of the investments made in the Nevers plant are attributed to labor conditions to treat issues such as safety is to exchange about good and bad safety and hard working conditions. practices: cleanliness, transportation and mobility, ergonomics etc. 9 BACK EMPLOYEES TO CONTENT Safety at work 2/2 PROJET HIRING THE UNEMPLOYED AND CREATING LONG-TERM JOBS The Nevers plant works with Eureka Interim, a temporary employment agency for the long-term unemployed or people in difficulty. The Artès plant works with Ampans, a company which employs people with a mental disability and vulnerable people. All interns in our German and Austrian branches have been recruited with a short-term or permanent contract over the last few years. IMPROVING LABOR CONDITIONS In order to reduce fatigue and accident frequency for our Sallanches plant team, we have redistributed the workload so that employees no longer work on Saturdays during the peak season, a consequence of our seasonal activity. Employees are still required to work some Saturdays but on a purely voluntary basis. THE FRENCH EXCEPTIONAL PURCHASING POWER BONUS This bonus is not compulsory but the Rossignol Group has decided to pay it to all their French employees regardless of their employment status. MORE INFORMATIVE PAYSLIPS FOR OUR SALLANCHES PLANT Payslip presentation has been revised to show that permanent employees earn more than temporary employees even if this is spread out over the year. EMPLOYEE TRAINING 91% of the employees at the Artès plant received training last year. PROJECT 2.0.1.9 The Nevers plant plans to obtain ISO 45001 certification for occupational health and safety. One example of actions that will be implemented next year: an exoskeleton will be purchased to reduce musculoskeletal problems for painters. 10 EMPLOYEES LaborPROJET conditions 1/2 New product trials (paddle line) by the Rossignol Japan team. SUPPORTING THE RIGHT TO DISCONNECT IMPORTANT QUESTIONNAIRE ABOUT THE After the agreement was made, the HR department assisted certain employees who had trouble exercising their QUALITY OF WORK LIFE (QWL) right to disconnect. To do so, it was recommended they no longer answer emails outside working hours and it was The Rossignol Group has undergone constant suggested they have a second telephone for personal use. change over the last few years with the acquisition We recognize we still have progress to make in this area, starting with better examples from management. of new companies and internal reorganization. This generated a more complex and quite difficult internal social climate. To improve the situation, the HR department put in place a QWL questionnaire. This questionnaire was put in place thanks to involvement by motivated employees who are conscious that this was an important step for the well-being of everyone in the group. All our employees working in the French sites received the questionnaire and participated in WELLNESS AREA round-table discussions about their quality of work FOR MANUFACTURING EMPLOYEES. life. The issues included: The wellness area at the Sallanches plant has been > recognition of your work completely renovated. It is in a new location and has > organization of your work very functional areas including a kitchen, dining area, > management bar and lounge. The Scandinavian decoration provides > work environment a relaxing atmosphere. > HR policy > communication A new comfortable relaxation area for Sallanches employees. Round-table discussions were then organized in each department to provide for open exchange about the above issues. This was a particularly rich experience. Many areas for improvement were identified, but also suggestions and appreciation for the approach were expressed. A presentation will be made to the senior PROJECT management team by the QWL officers and an 2.0.1.9 Configuration for access to full Skype Pro functions with a telephone, where a action plan will be prepared... More about that in our next COP! computer was previously required. 11 EMPLOYEES LaborPROJET conditions 2/2 TELECOMMUTING AGREEMENT An agreement was made in September 2018 for telecommuting. The agreement is open to all employees who meet certain criteria: technical constraints, department organization, personal aptitude, etc. and subject to agreement by their line manager. 4 types of telecommuting have been established: > Recurrent (0.5 or 1 day per week) > Occasional (max. 12 days per year) STORES: OUR SALES STAFF > Exceptional (strikes, weather, ARE OUR AMBASSADORS pandemic, etc.) This year we opened many Rossignol stores around the world, > For medical reasons or for workers with a including in Paris and Oslo... Other openings are underway. recognized handicap (France: RQTH) It is important for the Group that our sales staff are an integral part of our team. They have our DNA and share our core values. It is therefore essential that they are fully integrated into our activities, products, brands and in-house events. To that end, they will all visit the group headquarters and benefit from the same advantages as all our other employees. VARIED INTERNAL COMMUNICATION TOOLS > Yammer social network: the initial goal was to provide an alternative mode of communication to email...in a very liberated way without any hierarchical pressure. Unfortunately, it is not yet used sufficiently with just 317 active users and 25,000 consultations in the last six months. NO MORE PLASTIC > New intranet: for publishing clearer information on a daily basis and for making common documents available to employees: labor We continue to reduce the use of plastic in our agreements, information about health insurance, works council offers etc. daily life, after the removal of plastic cups from > Skype Pro: less intrusive than the phone and more informal than an email for a quick chat, it can also be used for video conferences. headquarter coffee machines (see the 2017/18 This application is being used increasingly, particularly by telecommuters with 540 active users, 117,000 connections peer-to-peer , 1,000 COP), glass bottles are now provided by the conferences with 2,600 participants in the last 6 months. works council. Furthermore, the last international meeting organized between the group’s retailers was plastic free with no plastic cups or water bottles. That’s a reduction of 600 plastic bottles for 75 people over 4 days. 12 BACK EMPLOYEES TO CONTENT Ecocorico PROJET PROJECT 2.0.1.9 A repair kit with a pump and inner tubes is available for employees who cycle to work. An extensive project for grouping office waste bins: 37 sorting centers with 74 bins will replace the 600 existing waste bins for the collection of standard waste, paper and cartons. An insect hotel, local picnic tables and benches made from recycled skis and snowboards built by headquarter employees. This motivated group of employees from headquarters has undertaken several actions throughout the year, particularly for Sustainable Development Week from May 28 to June 1, 2018: 1A 100% locally produced meal during Sustainable Development Week. 2Regular deliveries by local producers: fruit, compote, juice, flour, and more. 3Mobility Day: a challenge to come to work using green transport. Bike repair shop and lessons given by Naturavelo (Charavines, Isère): around 15 bikes were repaired and 9 people participated in the lessons. 4An insect hotel: built with assistance from Naturama experts (Sainte-Colombe, Rhône). About thirty employees participated in the construction. It was a great opportunity to learn more about these little bugs which are priceless for our local biodiversity...and maybe some of us will take the idea and build one at home! 53 picnic tables: bought from a local sawmill (Veurey Voroize, Isère) were mounted by our employees. They are used frequently and have become the place to be where employees from the workshop and offices meet! 63 benches made from recycled skis and snowboards. 13 PRODUCTS PROJET RESPONSIBLE DOWN, WOOL AND LEATHER 64% of the down we use is synthetic and 19% is labeled Duvet du Faubourg a premium standard for responsible French down. Following recent scandals which unveiled unacceptable sourcing conditions with regards to animal welfare, we have decided to completely stop using angora and mohair (mohair from 2021). For the same reasons, we have also decided to stop using Australian wool, unless it is certified as non-mulesed. We have clarified and increased the stringency of our supplier requirements in our new Code of Conduct: ZERO ANIMAL FUR > Down, feathers and leather must be food industry by-products. As we announced last year in the 2017/18 COP, > The use of down and feathers sourced on live animals is forbidden. we have completely stopped using animal fur. > Use of down and feathers from foie-gras production is forbidden. We now only use synthetic fur. CLOTHING WITH ZERO IMPACT ON HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT Most of our fabrics have Standard 100 certification from Oeko-Tex®. This standard provides consumers with an extremely safe product. The tests and value ranges for this standard are much more stringent than for any other national or international standards. TECHNICAL CLOTHING MADE FROM RECYCLED MATERIALS MORE ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY Several clothing items from the RaidLight use polyester made from recycled materials. The proportion of recycled material in fabrics HELMETS varies from 10% to 100%. We now use a new material which is more environmentally friendly for our ski helmets. It is 100% recyclable and requires no VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds), no CFC (chlorofluorocarbon) and no other composites known for their negative impact on the environment. This product has received an ISPO Award for meeting environmentally friendly criteria and for its manufacturing conditions in an Asian plant with a social audit featuring zero nonconformities. Templar Impacts Core helmet made from more environmentally friendly materials. 14 BACK PRODUCTS TO CONTENT LOCAL CLOTHING RANGE The “Atelier S” freestyle range is 100% Made in France by a plant located in the Drôme. These extremely innovative clothing items are totally seamless. Environmentally friendly, they are made from Sympatex®, a waterproof, windproof and breathable fabric with zero PTFE or PFC content. It is made from 100% recycled materials and carries the bluesign® label. The cutting edge in environmentally friendly fabric! The urban range created with designer Castelbaljac is made entirely in Italy. AFTER-SALES SERVICE: OPTIMIZING PRODUCT END OF LIFE Our after-sales department repairs our customers’ damaged products. We stock certain components for our products until the end of production or until spare parts are no longer available. RECYCLING PRODUCTS AT THE END OF LIFE: RENTAL NEW DEAL We collect all equipment at their end of life thanks to the Rental New Deal operation with our partner Tri-Vallées. This year 7.25 metric tonnes of equipment were collected and recycled including skis, snowboards, ski poles and ski boots. Freestyle “Atelier S” range: 100% made in JCC Collection France and environmentally friendly. PROJECT 2.0.1.9 Alpine boots: printed user guides have been replaced with an on-line guide. Ski poles: our R&D teams are working on an eco-design. We plan to have them in stores for winter 2020/21. 15 PRODUCTION RECYCLING SOLE SCRAPS In 2018 we recycled 12.7 metric tonnes of ski sole scraps. The scraps were crushed in the plant then sent to recycling centers to be re-used for manufacturing products such as electric cable sheaths, plant pots and flooring. REDUCING OUR EMISSIONS The RaidLight plant in St Pierre de Chartreuse has installed particle filters on the extraction units used to evacuate fumes generated by laser fabric-cutting machines. COMPLIANT WASTE WATER TREATMENT FIRE PREVENTION We have installed a filter at the Sallanches This is a constant priority, for example when installing equipment or training. We conduct plant to reduce the quantity of suspended annual site audits internally to establish a safety rating. The overall rating is progressing solids (SS) in the waste water generated by positively: +11 points since 2012 (2012 = 62 / 2018 = 73). our industrial activity. We were previously rejecting approximately The local fire department was present for the last fire drill at the Nevers plant. A first! We 120 milligrams/liter into the environment. plan to repeat this exercise with them annually, depending on their availability . This gives This exceeded the local regulation which their teams the chance to familiarize themselves with our site and to train in an industrial set the maximum at 35 milligrams/liter. By setting. installing the filter, we have reduced the SS value to an average of 20 milligrams/liter in one year. SOLAR ENERGY The filter has been optimized so that our process water circuit is treated constantly. The RaidLight plant in St Pierre de Chartreuse has produced energy since its construction This provides better irrigation for our thanks to solar panels mounted on the roof. This installation was completely overhauled machining equipment resulting in less last year. 37,200 kWh were produced in 2018: an increase of 8.8% compared with the nozzle clogging and a longer life for our average production since the installation. high-pressure pumps. Solar panels on the RaidLight plant roof HEAT RECOVERY A heat recovery system has been installed on the boilers at the Nevers plant. The system, which has been operational since November 2018, has already generated PROJECT an annual energy saving of 150 MW. The 2.0.1.9 The last plant concerned is the Sallanches plant which is planned for ISO 14001 certification this summer. system was funded by the French agency for the environment and energy management, ADEME. A project is scheduled to begin this summer on the RaidLight plant to create products using obsolescent and scrap materials from the plant. 16 CUSTOMERS REDUCING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF OUR STORES None of our stores, neither in France nor abroad, distribute plastic bags. We have also installed LED lighting in all our stores. WEBSITES ADAPTED TO LOCAL COUNTRY CULTURE We aim for websites which reflect our customers’ personal identity in each country. To that end, we recruited 7 people dedicated to ecommerce relations last year. As a result of understanding local cultures, we have, for example, put in place Customers conduct virtual reality tests on payment modes suited to each country and translated our sites into Norwegian. Dynastar products using digital terminals. ELECTRONIC BILLING 71% of our customers receive electronic bills. This is not yet the case for the ENHANCED CUSTOMER supplier billing system, for which the project is underway. EXPERIENCE The Dynastar and Rossignol brands regularly offer customers the possibility to test new products and give their feedback using The Paris Rossignol store on Boulevard Saint-Germain mobile apps or websites. Such tests are carried out in resorts or stores. Digital terminals are used for virtual reality tests. The goal is to make the consumer the focus of the project, giving them the possibility to express themselves and provide feedback to PROJECT stores and R&D teams. 2.0.1.9 Creation of an interactive guide for the Rossignol and RaidLight sites to help consumers choose the right size for clothing and footwear. Customers simply indicate several physical measurements and the guide proposes the best size for them. This system provides several advantages: better customer experience, greater trust and less returns which also decreases the negative impact of logistics on the environment. Creation of a showroom for the RaidLight brand in the center of the Massif de la Chartreuse. 4 new stores will open this summer: 3 in China and 1 in New York. 17 BACK PRESENCE TO CONTENT CLOTHING DONATIONS AND FUNDING 2 MAJOR PROJECTS FUNDING FOR THE RIDERS FOR REFUGEES ASSOCIATION SUPPORTING THE KEEP A BREAST EUROPE CAMPAIGN WITH THE FINLAND TROPHY Without being associated with any political movement, we share athlete The Finland Trophy is the first 100% charitable polar trek. It is an extraordinary event for the fight Marion Haerty’s opinion that it is unacceptable for refugees, particularly against breast cancer. In January 2019, 120 women took up the challenged and participated in a children, to suffer inhuman living conditions in France. So we support her 3-day sporting event in Lapland! commitment to the Riders For Refugees association by collecting around 40 cartons of unused clothing and donating €2,000 of new clothes: 107 jackets/ Rossignol Apparel was the proud sponsor for the second year running and provides their sweaters and 81 hats. ambassador Laure Manaudou and the teams with down jackets. The perfect ally for performing in temperatures at around -75°F! 18 BACK PRESENCE TO CONTENT SUPPORTING LOCAL ASSOCIATIONS The RaidLight employees provided assistance to the Chartreuse Sport Nature association for 2 sports events they organized: the Winter Trail and the Chartreuse Trail Festival. The whole RaidLight team benefits from a charity day to contribute to the Chartreuse Trail Festival organization. We have also been working for many years with the French school sports union: UNSS (Union National du Sport Scolaire). We offered many prizes for the junior high school Winter Games in which 800 teenagers participate. We support many projects which are close to our hearts each year. They are organized by a range of associations: > donations of clothing and accessories for “Sourire à la vie”; > donations of equipment for the “Open Patrouille de France” for the association Image For Margo; RaidLight employees helped organize the Equipment donations for the junior high > donations of accessories for the race “Tous ensemble à la Vouise”; Winter Trail in Chartreuse. school Winter Games in the Sept Laux resort. > donations of equipment and accessories for the world parasport championship > donations of equipment for competitors in the Handisport ski team > donations of equipment and accessories for competitions organized for juniors from French official ski schools and sports clubs PROJECT 2.0.1.9 Ongoing support for committed local actors! 19 BACK PRESENCE TO CONTENT EXCHANGES WITH SENIOR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS The RaidLight R&D teams worked with senior high school students from Lycée Argouges in Grenoble (Isère) and Lycée Diderot in Lyon (Rhône) to create innovative prototypes. A methods technician from the Sallanches plant participated in the jury for the advanced technical certificate for industrial product design* at the Lycée du Mont-Blanc in Passy (Haute-Savoie) *BTS Conception de Produits Industriels. GREEN INDUSTRIAL ACTION We have put in place a collective pallet recovery system with Centr’Alp, an environmental industrial work group. “Europe” pallets are reused and the others are Creation of innovative prototypes with the senior used by the association Passiflore (Tullins, Isère) where unemployed people build high schools including Lycée recycled furniture. Argouges in Grenoble. RECYCLING PROMOTIONAL TENTS Following a change in logo, Skis Dynastar in Sallanches had to make about 15 new promotional tents. They worked with our supplier Cap Mer et Montagne (Saint Ferréol) to recycle the old tents into small bags. They were used to distribute our brand catalogs and were distributed amongst our retailers. A great example to be repeated! E-WASTE RECYCLING We have recycled E-waste collected from our headquarters as part of the Bon Deee Barras operation organized by Véolia: 40 monitors, 86 desktop computers, 80 portable computers, 2 small printers, 10 servers and a range of accessories such as keyboards and mice. The equipment underwent a depollution process to remove any hazardous components such as batteries and accumulators then the materials were separated into plastic, aluminum and metal for recycling. Bags made from recycled IT EQUIPMENT DONATIONS promotional tent material. We offered unused IT equipment to an association which sent them to Africa where they are taken apart and reconditioned. This work funds cultural missions, including assistance for local artists. 20 BACK TO CONTENT ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We would like to thank all our team members for their daily contributions to our shared progress. Our commitment is your commitment! We would also like to thank all our customers and partners for the trust they place in us. Lastly, thank you to the Global Compact organization for the positive effect it has around the world. This is our Communication on Progress report on the implementation of the United Nations Global Compact principles. We would appreciate your comments on its contents. WE SUPPORT 21 CSR PROGRESS BACK TO CONTENT OUR CSR PROGRESS ACTIONS RESULTS 2017 2018 RESULTS 2018 2019 Winter sports equipment and gear 72% Winter sports equipment and gear 70% Turnover sources Bikes 18.5% Bikes 15% Apparel & footwear 9,5% Apparel & footwear 15% Safety accident frequency 11.43 9.44 ** Safety accident severity 0.72 ** 0.46 ** End of life products collected by Rental New Deal 4.21 metric tonnes 7.25 metric tonnes • Plants certified ISO 14001 Artès yes Artès yes. Montebelluna no Montebelluna no • Nevers yes Nevers yes • Sallanches no Sallanches no • Water consumption in our plants Artès NC Artès 30,512 m3 Montebelluna 1,648 m3 Montebelluna 1,607 m3 • Nevers 2,267 m3 Nevers 1,623 m3 • Sallanches 6,521 m3 Sallanches 6,212 m3 • Energy consumption in our plants Artès electricity 9,930 MWh/gas 7,560 MWh • Artès electricity 9,600 MWh /gas 7,400 MWh • Montebelluna electricity 2,101 MWh/gas 216 MWh • Montebelluna electricity 2,167 MWh /gas 211 MWh • Nevers electricity 1,272 MWh/gas 1,933 MWh • Nevers electricity 1,149 MWh /gas 2,281 MWh • Sallanches electricity 7,544 MWh/gas 4,955 MWh • Sallanches electricity 7,101 MWh /gas 3,598 MWh • Quantity of common industrial waste generated by our main plants Artès 1,325 metric tonnes Artès 1,052 metric tonnes ** • Montebelluna 83 metric tonnes Montebelluna 97 metric tonnes • Nevers 129 metric tonnes Sallanches 527 metric tonnes * Nevers 122 metric tonnes • Sallanches 530 metric tonnes * SESG 213 metric tonnes SESG 241 metric tonnes • Fire prevention rating for our plants 75 73 (84% of maximum potential) • Customer E-billing 38 % 71 % • * Significant improvements, many areas cleared. Variation: neutral Variation: positive Variation: négative ** To end February 2019 (operation incomplete). (less than 10%) 22 LOOKUP TABLE BACK TO CONTENT UN SUSTAINABLE CENTRAL ISSUES FOR THE OUR CSR PROGRESS ACTIONS DOCUMENT PAGES GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES DEVELOPMENT GOALS ISO 26000 STANDARD CSR strategy Governance/p8 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure Organizational governance CSR Communication Governance/p8 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure Organizational governance Anti-Corruption Governance/p8 Anti-Corruption 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions Fair practices GDPR compliance Governance/p8 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions Consumer issues Occupational health and safety Employees/p9 International labor standards 8 Decent work and economic growth Labor conditions and relations Work stability Employees/p10 International labor standards 8 Decent work and economic growth Labor conditions and relations 3 Good health and well-being Psychosocial risks Employees/p9 International labor standards Labor conditions and relations 8 Decent work and economic growth Quality of Work Life (QWL) Employees/p11 International labor standards 8 Decent work and economic growth Labor conditions and relations 11 Sustainable cities and communities Ecocorico actions Employees/p13 International labor standards 12 Responsible consumption and production Labor conditions and relations 15 Life on land 12 Responsible consumption and production Eco-design of our products Products/p14 Environment Environment 13 Climate action Products/p15 End of life products Environment 12 Responsible consumption and production Environment 6 Clean water and sanitation Production/p16 Consumption and waste (production) Environment 7 Affordable and clean energy Environment 12 Responsible consumption and production 8 Decent work Production/p16 Fire safety Environment and economic growth Environment 12 Responsible consumption and production Customers/p17 E-billing Environment 12 Responsible consumption and production Environment Customer experience Customers/p17 9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure Consumer issues Reducing the environmental impact of 7 Affordable and clean energy Customers/p17 Environment our stores 12 Responsible consumption and production 12 Responsible consumption and production Environment/Communities Industrial ecology Presence/p20 17 Partnership for the goals and local development 1 No poverty Communities Donations and sponsoring Presence/p18,19 and 20 3 Good health and well-being and local development Communities Contribution to education Presence/p20 4 Quality education and local development 23
