COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: December 4, 2019 To: December 3, 2020 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive December 4, 2019 To our stakeholders: As a global certified B-Corporation, I am pleased to confirm that Jitasa reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jeff Russell CEO 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include: We support and enforce the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in all of our global operations. Our managers, executives, and HR professionals in all of our global offices are trained regularly on the importance of employee engagement. Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include: Our global HR manual very clearly communicates to our employees their rights and responsibilities, along with mechanisms and “whistle blower” provisions to ensure every single employee has a voice. Our formal “Open Door Policy” ensures that every employee has a voice and method for communicating concerns. Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: As an accounting firm that primarily works virtually, we have a relatively small environmental impact. Recycling of paper is available in all of our global offices. We have converted nearly 100% of our process into paperless file sharing processes. We have a reusable battery program and recycle all other batteries. Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include: We globally support the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Details on the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act are available in our global HR handbook. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include: • Our anonymous employee satisfaction survey, sent twice a year, ensures a voice for every employee worldwide direct to the Office of the CEO. These results are analyzed and are instrumental in developing our HR road map. • Our Global Executive Team regularly reviews the results of our Employee Satisfaction survey, as well as any issues raised through our Open Door Policy. • As a certified B-Corporation, every two years we assess the environmental footprint of the company. • Any violations of the FCPA are immediately escalated to the Office of the CEO. To date, we have no such incidents.
