Contents Page Statement of Commitment by Management 1 Asia Royal Hospital's United Nations Global Compact 2 Asia Royal’s Mission, Vision, Motto, Milestone 3 Asia Royal Profile 4 Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 5-19 Report Summary 20 Activities Photos Appendix 1-8 STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT BY DIRECTOR As mentioned in previous annual reporting, we are continuously focusing to improve our community contribution programs since 2013, the moment of becoming a membership of United Nation Global Compact (UNGC) by inspiring the ten principles of UNGC. We believe that we can build a better future for all of us by implementing our CSR initiatives while reasoning WHO’s MDGs. In this COP report (from 2018 October -2019 September) , we can access the level of community contributions and made the valuable records of our hospital's public contributions. Moreover, we can also know that how our activities advantage to all of our stakeholders and how it meets the UNGC principles and guidelines. By reviewing this COP report, the attitude and mindset of our management including our employee has been continuously concentrate on community contribution manner in rendering of our daily healthcare service to our public and all of our daily business operations. By submitting the annual report through the (COP), we can have variety of valuable advantages such as achieving an institutional framework, sharing experiences about community contribution activities at international level, reducing financial and management risk by understanding and practicing (4) areas of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and establishing a powerful business network by connecting different organizations through transparency. Moreover, it improves overall image of the whole organization which in turn raising media interest and augmenting public awareness about our organization. Sincerely, Dr. Aung Pyae Kyaw Executive Director Human Resource Department Prepared by HR Dept: Page 1 of 20 ASIA ROYAL HOSPITAL’S UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (2018-2019) Hospital is a place for caring sick, suffering and also a place for providing preventive care by offering health education to public. An efficient hospital requires a proper hospital specialized management with compassionate care and modernized technical and environmental framework great enough to provide a safe, comfortable and healthy environment to the patients.. Patients being the main focus, prevention is the primary rule of our hospitals. Nowadays, the consumers are increasingly demanding convenient, reliable and timely services provided in caring, safe and high quality environment. Asia Royal Hospital (ARH) is now attempting to comply with patients’ needs and providing care with sympathy, empathy and efficiency in sense of socially responsible manner. We are proudly running our business by providing premium quality care to patients and public as a member of UNGC team. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 2 of 20 OUR MISSION Through the expertise of its healthcare providers, management and supporting staff, Asia Royal will work to provide better health care for the patients. By utilizing advanced technology, modernized equipment and standard operation procedures with continual quality assessment by internal and external quality control program, Asia Royal assures its health care services to be effective and reliable. Under its Organizational Development Program and Strategic Directions set in accord with State's health policy guidelines, Asia Royal will work towards specialty-oriented Hospital administration. OUR VISION “To become the leading private hospital in Myanmar by providing international standard health care system with trustworthy service.” OUR MOTTO “Healthy Hygienic Hospital with Humanity.” OUR LOGO and MILESTONES Prepared by HR Dept: Page 3 of 20 Asia Royal Profile Asia Royal Hospital (ARH) was registered as a Private General Hospital in 2010. It has three types of health care services (a) Out-patient consultancy services (b) Emergency care and (c) Inpatient services. As a general hospital, ARH was equipped with full facilities of Medical and Surgical procedures. In 2018, ARH can expanded new stroke unit, rehabilitation unit, dental unit, sleep laboratory& sleep disorder clinic and also eagerly working to develop separated cardiac specialized center including Cardiac modular OT. Achieving certificate of ISO 9001-2008 in 2011 and again upgraded to ISO 9001-2015 in 2017, assured Asia Royal Hospital the proven and standardized quality in our health care delivery systems. In 2018, ARH laboratory is succeeding accreditation of ISO 15189 proving our hospital’s diagnosis system more reliable to public. With combined effort of healthcare providers and administrative staffs together with proper guidance and leadership of Executive Directors, Asia Royal Hospital is improving gradually and stands as one of the leading private hospital in Yangon. We are submitting UNGC (Communication On Progress) report annually to show our progress on contributions to the public and how we inspire sense of CSR in delivering our premium quality healthcare system to people of Myanmar. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 4 of 20 Quality policy The Quality Policy of Asia Royal Hospital is published in this Quality Manual, and is placed in customer access areas and meeting rooms. 1. Our team is ready to provide medical solutions aiming at utmost quality healthcare service and operational outcomes for our patients' needs. 2. We keep our environment clean and safe not only for the patients but also for our Healthcare providers. 3. We attract qualified medical professionals and develop center of excellence in all specialties as well as maintaining, promoting and continuing professional development of medical education. 4. We comply with all legal requirements (The law relating to private healthcare services) and strive for continual improvement of healthcare system and facilities. 5. We aspire to lead among private hospitals in Myanmar in value-based integrated healthcare (ethical value, professional value and human value) through continuous improvement of quality management system. Our company’s quality policy is communicated to all employees and continually reviewed for suitability and development. Human Rights Principles Policy and Protocols ARH’s commitment about Human Right Human Rights principles principles is expressed by continuously Principle 1: Business should promoting and standardizing our health care support and respect the protection delivery system to the public and also treating of internationally proclaimed human our own employee without any discrimination rights and and strictly follow the national labour law Principle 2: Make sure that they prescribed by Myanmar Government. ARH's are not complicit in human rights recruitment policy statement is well abuses. established and communicated to all ARH employee. As a private health care service provider, optimizing our health care services is Prepared by HR Dept: Page 5 of 20 one of the best way of obeying internationally proclaimed human rights ethically as well as patients rights professionally. Key performance for developing our healthcare delivery system by adapting and utilizing advanced technology, modernized equipments and defining standard operation procedures and protocols with continual quality assessment by internal and external quality control programs. Moreover, ARH’s health care service quality has been audited by internal and external auditor teams under guidelines and certification of ISO 9001-2015 Quality Management system and ARH’s Laboratory is also accredited by ISO 15189 by Singapore Accreditation Council. Implementation We are delivering our health care system to public by inspiring Human Rights principles of UNGC in every step of detailed operation. AS mentioned in our recruitment policy, we are strictly prohibiting discrimination in recruiting, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on race, national origin, religion, age, gender and marital status. We do not hire the employees who are under 18 years of age according to guidance of Myanmar National labor law and we issued Employee Handbooks to all of our employees in which employee rights such as leave rule, gazette holiday, employee’s rule and regulation policies, penalties, etc are described thoroughly. As contribution to the community, ARH has been actively participating in contributing to the country’s health care, educational, religious and poverty alleviation sectors. We also have been optimizing our health care delivery to the public by continuously standardizing against international standard, reducing employee errors as much as we can and minimizing patient's complaints. As elevation of our health care standard, we have been following the guidelines announced by Ministry of Health & Sports, Myanmar in accordance with National Health Plan 2017-2021 version. We also have been focusing on protocols and improvements of international standard hospitals from neighbor countries. Moreover, our hospital had been achieved ISO 9001-2015 certification at 2017 and accreditation of ISO 15189 from Singapore Accreditation council at 2018. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 6 of 20 As reducing employee's error in daily operations, management laid down the policies and protocol according to ISO certifications. Besides defining the policies, management has been conducting extensive career development plan for employee such as internal and external training programs, stipend and scholarship programs to improve the comprehensive skills of employee. As minimizing customer complaint, our management had been drawn the effective and efficient complaint handling procedure and analyze, solve the complaints instantly, and discussing the issues to prevent the similar one in future. Besides optimizing our health care delivery system to the public and caring our own employee as our asset, and we have conducted the following activities as contribution to the public by respecting the human right principles of UNGC. I. Contribution to Healthcare, Education, social and religious category Health Care sector • Donated 500,000 Myanmar Kyats to Central Blood Bank of Myanmar at 15th December, 2018. • Participated by hosting mobile clinic and donated 900, 000 Myanmar kyats to Religious Festival celebrated from 1st January, 2019 to 5th January, 2019 at people park. • Donated stationeries, basic utensils, food and beverages worth about 1,500,000 Myanmar Kyats to YGW orphanage charity association located at 89 mile highway express road at 10th January, 2019. • Donated 300,000 Myanmar Kyats to Myanmar nursery and midwife association, Yangon at 25th January, 2019. • Donated 300,000 Myanmar Kyats incorporation with Myanmar Private Hospital Association (MPHA) to orphanage charity project at 29th January, 2019. • Leading world cancer day walking campaign and celebrating cancer eradication talk at 4th February, 2019. • Donated 1,320,000 Myanmar Kyats to University of Nursing, Yangon for stipend program of 2018-2019 batch nursing students at 15th February, 2019. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 7 of 20 • Actively participated and donated 770,000 Myanmar Kyats to 24th Bo Sein Mhan religious festival at 21st February, 2019. • Performed free medical check-up for 130 candidates of health care assistant training from Daw Khin Kyi foundation at 4th March, 2019. • Donated 500,000 Myanmar Kyats to 4th AASMT Congress hosted by Myanmar Medical Technologist Society in 2018, October. • Donated 500,000 Myanmar Kyats to Myeik General Hospital located in Myeik City, Ta Hnin Tharyi Division at 21stMarch, 2019. • Supporting stipend for five 2018-2019 batch students of University of Medical Technology, Yangon worth of 2,500,000 Myanmar Kyats at 13th March, 2019. • Donated stationeries, basic utensils, food and beverages worth about 1,600,000 Myanmar Kyats to Myaing Charity and Nunnery Education Center at 12th March, 2019. • Donated 300,000 Myanmar Kyats to Dawei General Hospital located in Ta Hnin Tharyi Division at 19th March,2019. • Donated used Siemen brand X-ray machine to University of Medicine (1), Yangon for the teaching purpose of 2nd MB medical students. • Performed cardiac surgery for free of charge worth of 17,334,864 Myanmar Kyats in collaboration with Fortis hospital (India) for four patients who are suffering congenital heart disease (MR,ASD,VSD) on 4th April, 2019 at Asia Royal Hospital. • Performed Spraying and fogging at high schools nearby area of hospital and Shwe Taung monastic education center to prevent Dengue Hemorrhagic Fever (DHF) at 14th June, 2019. • Donated (3) patient bed to regional clinic located at Pan Ta Naw township, Ayeyarwaddy Division. • Donated 200,000 Myanmar Kyats to Department of Fire safety, Yangon. • Performed cardiac surgery for free of charge worth of 17,334,864 Myanmar Kyats in collaboration with Fortis hospital (India) for patient named Daw Nyunt Nyunt suffering congenital heart disease on 20th May, 2019 at Asia Royal Hospital. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 8 of 20 • Supporting stipend for six 2018-2019 batch students of University of Pharmacy, Yangon worth of 3,000,000 Myanmar Kyats at 29th July, 2019. • Donated used running condition 300MA model X-ray machine to University of Medical Technology, Yangon at 23rd August, 2019. • Donated 500,000 Myanmar Kyats for regions suffering from flood and disaster incorporation with Myanmar Private Hospital Association (MPHA) at 21st August, 2019. • Donated 1,000,000 Myanmar Kyats to scholarship program for staff families of Ministry of Health &Sports (MOHS) at 1st August, 2019. • Supporting with free medical check-up program for the pediatric patient referred from YCH worth about 20,517,374 Myanmar Kyats this year. • Donated 1,014,239 Myanmar Kyats to Smile train charity group performing free of charge surgery to whom suffering cleft lips and palate. Measurement of Outcome Our business operations including healthcare standard, standard operation procedures, patient safety, workplace safety, organizational affairs, etc have been reviewing at monthly management review meeting. Our hospital's Board of Directors team and top management fully emphasize and largely participate on issues optimizing human right principles. By reviewing our monthly business operations, hospital’s management system, procedures and our public contributions are fully in accordance with United Nation's prescribed human rights principles. Labour Principles Policy and Protocols As mentioned in adapting human right policy, our hospital’s human resource management operations are strictly in accordance with Myanmar National Labor law. ARH does not discriminate based on race, religion, age, marital status, disability, sex to those personnel in recruiting, hiring, training, promotion and discipline. Our policy regarding about employee is that employee are our own assets and employee development is our main concern. Moreover, management had been clearly mentioned the policies concerning Prepared by HR Dept: Page 9 of 20 Labor Principles employee rights, compensation and Principle 3: Business should uphold the responsibilities, rules and regulation freedom of association and the effective practicing in our hospital in our recognition of the right to collective bargaining. handbook. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of ARH is creating safe and forced and compulsory labour. warm cultured, productive working Principle 5: The effective abolition of child environment for all employees labour and while emphasizing their long-term Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination career development. in respect of employment and occupation. ARH Recruitment policy Statement  Strictly obeying the National Labor Law and human right policy prescribed by Myanmar National Government.  Offering trainings to promote the long term career development of the employee while creating safe, warm and compelling working environment.  Considering our employee as our valuable customers and our organization's priceless assets.  Our hiring philosophy is to recruit the right people in the right place and stabilize the recruited ones.  Strictly prohibiting and discouraging the hiring of child labor and staff less than eighteen years of age and also refusing to offer unpaid internship.  Laid down the policies to avoid unethical announcements and hiring techniques such as discrimination of gender, race, religion and head hunting techniques, etc. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 10 of 20 Implementation Regarding beneficial aspect of employee, our management team has been continuously watching labor market of Myanmar and modifies our remuneration rate accordingly. We also offer our employee with yearly salary increment, performance bonus system, leave bonus awards, employee welfare activities, training programs, exciting promotional career opportunities and proper retirement programs. For developmental aspect of employee, our management together with HR team carrying out training needs analysis for every rank of employee and develop a training master plan annually for better job performance to promote their confidence in daily operations. Regarding workplace safety of employee, our management had laid down the HSE policy and guidelines. We also have been providing with variety of workplace safety trainings by developing annual HSE training master plan. To protect the abuse of our employee, our management laid down the wellestablished employee grievance procedures and practice. Formal employee grievance and suggestion form has been developed and circulated to all levels of employee. We also encourage forming Employee conciliation committee to claim the employee rights and employee dispute issues according to Myanmar National Labor law. Management review meetings are hold monthly. In this meeting, all of our middle and top management level staffs are discussing about future strategy and road map of Asia Royal Hospital and also discussing about the current situations, like clinical issues, management issues and staff affairs. Our BOD and top management actively participated in discussing to get solutions and better future trends for organizational development and employee development. I. Employee Development and Welfare activities (a) Free of charge medical check-up services for employees above the age of 50 years and employees of more than ten years permanent service annually. (b) Anti-hepatitis B Vaccines immunization to all permanent staffs free of charge yearly. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 11 of 20 (c) Staff Discount plan for Healthcare expenditures worth about 49,063,700 Myanmar kyats incurred by Asia Royal Hospital. (d) Registration fees for Medical doctor and registered staff nurse license incurred by ARH yearly. (e) Managing Director Dr. Myat Thu hosted breakfast (Tea Party) yearly to all staffs for seven days. (f) Celebrating birthday parties to all staffs monthly. 2. Training Programs for Continuing Education and Development of Employees As mentioned above, our management believes that providing training is one of the main performances for augmenting employee development. So that, we emphasizes on training need analysis and providing training program of our employee as well. Trainings conducted in 2018-2019 categorized as follows; Prepared by HR Dept: Page 12 of 20 Asia Royal Hospital 2018-2019 HSE calendar master plan Course Targeted No. Calendar Training Trainer Duration Targeted Candidates of Candidates (Months) (Hrs) (Minimum) Dr.Kyaw Win April First Aider Training 18 AR Ambulance Team 25 Pax & Team Dr.Kyaw Win First Aider Training 18 AR Ambulance Team 25 Pax & Team May Dept; of Fire All Dept; regardless Fire Safety 2 50 pax Safety of rank Attitude & Prof U Thein June 2 Newer Employee 50 Pax Behavior Zaw Waste July Medical Dept; 2 Selected Employee 25 Pax Management August Electrical Safety Eng Dept; 2 Selected Employee 25 Pax Infection Control & Medical Dept; 2 AR Employee 50 Pax Hand Washing September AR employee of HSE Awareness Prof U Thein 2 service more than 4 50 Pax (General) Zaw yrs Personal AR staff under Med; Protective Medical Dept; 2 50 Pax & Eng; Dept October Equipment Dept; of Fire All Dept; regardless Fire Safety 2 50 pax Safety of rank November OT Safe steps Medical Dept; 2 AR OT Staff 25 Pax AR employee of HSE Awareness Prof U Thein December 2 service more than 4 50 Pax (General) Zaw yrs Radiation Safety Medical Dept; 2 AR selected staff 25 Pax January Laboratory Safety Medical Dept; 2 AR staff from Lab; 25 Pax AR staff under February ARH Security Admin Dept; 3 50 pax Admin Dept; Dept; of Fire All Dept; regardless March Fire Safety 2 50 pax Safety of rank Prepared by HR Dept: Page 13 of 20 Technical & Hands-on Training No. CMEs/CNEs Speaker/Trainer Date 1. Advances in Management of Gastric and Dr. Sam PehOonHui 18/10/2018 Renal Cancer Dr. Melvin Look 2. Office Tools IT Unit 6/2/2019 3. Management of Electrolytes Imbalance & Dr. U Hla Aung 16/3/2019 Acute Kidney Injury 4. Protect Yourself Prof. U Win Myaing 4/5/2019 5. Infection Control Dr.U Aung Kyaw Wynn 15/6/2019 6. Initial Management of Unstable Patients Dr. Ye Myint 14/8/2019 7. QMS Software IT Unit 14/8/2019 8. Principles of Dialysis Dr. Hla Aung 15/8/2019 9. Configure AD Role & features IT Unit 11/9/2019 No Pharmaceutical training Speaker/Trainer Date 1. Vaccines & Immunoglobulin Khin Sandar Thein 7/5/2019 2. Anti-Platelet & Anti-Coagulant S & P Department 10/9/2019 3. Configure AD Role & features Daw Thiri Htet Naing 12/9/2019 Orientation Trainings No Orientation Training Speaker/Trainer Date 14/1/2019 to 1 Orientation Training (1/2019) All Departments 18/1/2019 4/2/2019 to 2 Orientation Training (2/2019) All Departments 8/2/2019 11/3/2019 to 3 Orientation Training (3/2019) All Departments 15/3/2019 20/5/2019 to 4 Orientation Training (4/2019) All Departments 24/5/2019 5 Orientation Training for Radiographer U Khin Maung Tin 8/6/2019 1/7/2019 to 6. Orientation Training (5/2019) All Departments 6/7/2019 Prepared by HR Dept: Page 14 of 20 Quality Management System No. Quality Management System Speaker/Trainer Date 14/1/2019 and 1 ISO Awareness Training U Myo Min Aung 17/1/2019 2 ISO Awareness & Audit Training Daw Nay Nwe Soe 18/2/2019 29/3/2019 to 3. Internal Auditor Training Dr. Tin Latt 31/3/2019 ISO 9001:2015 System, KPI and Risk 4 Daw Nay Nwe Soe 06/08/2019 Management Refresher Course 13/8/2019 5. ISO Risk Assessment Training U Myo Min Aung 16/8/2019 Conferences, Seminar & Summit No Conferences, Seminar & Summit Place Date Workshop on Private Health care 15/8/2019 to 1. Naypyidaw, Myanmar development 16/8/2019 11/9/2019 to 2. Hospital Management Asia 2019 Hanoi, Vietnam 12/9/2019 20/9/2019 to 3. ASNA 2019 Yangon, Myanmar 22/9/2019 Workplace Safety Training No. Orientation/ISO and Safety Training Speaker/Trainer Date Basic First Aid & Basic Life Support Training First Aid Training 3/12/2018 to 1. (1/2018) Team 13/12/2018 7/12/2018 and 2. Laboratory Safety Medical Department 13/12/2018 Department of Fire 3. Fire hazard prevention and demonstration 17/1/2019 Service Department of Fire 4. Fire hazard prevention and demonstration 10/4/2019 Service Rescue lift training & workplace HSE Training 5. U Myo Min Aung 8/7/2019 & Room Maintenance Procedure Department of Fire 6. Fire hazard prevention and demonstration 25/7/2019 Service 2/9/2019 to 7. Infection Control Medical Department 9/9/2019 Prepared by HR Dept: Page 15 of 20 Capacity building Training No. Capacity Building Trainings and Workshop Speaker/Trainer Date 1. Personal Development Dr. Phyo Thiha 19/1/2019 2. Personal Development Workshop Dr. Phyo Thiha 19/3/2019 3. Personal Development Workshop Dr. Phyo Thiha 26/3/2019 Personal Development, Communication and 4. Dr. Phyo Thiha 21/5/2019 Customer Care Workshop Personal Development, Communication and 5. Dr. Phyo Thiha 29/7/2019 Customer Care Workshop Department of 6. Awareness on Income Tax 18/7/2019 Taxation Measurement of Outcome We accessed employee development by performance appraisal system quarterly to know their individual development and carrying out post training evaluation for effectiveness of our providing trainings. As mentioned above, employee suggestion forms are also providing to our employee to know their needs, wants and suggestions for further development. Working under the guidance of Private Hospital Act, Hospital Manual, Myanmar Medical Council guidelines and under the supervision of Ethical Committee, ARH is setting better situations to prevent malpractice to patients as well as employee in distress. Our Management also properly maintained Law and order and maintained proper supervision and standard operation procedures. Environmental Principles Policy and Protocols Environmental Principles ARH is always trying to Principle 7 : Business should support a reduce undesirable environprecautionary approach to environmental challenges. mental impact due to our Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote daily business operations and greater environmental responsibility. emphasizing our CSR activities Principle 9 : Encourage the development and to develop green, clean and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. safe environment. We carried Prepared by HR Dept: Page 16 of 20 out this so that all of the stakeholders involved in our business will come to realize the importance of the environmental impacts. Implementation We, Asia Royal Hospital laid down the policies to reduce environmental impacts as well as to improve environmental friendliness. Employees are trained to prioritize environmental friendly job practices. Our hospital’s standard operation procedures (SOP), guidelines and medical protocols are also defined to reduce adverse effects on public and our stakeholders’ environment. Maintain safe water supply and sanitation inside hospital compound. Waste disposal procedures are done under strict antiseptics conditions to prevent contamination. Asia Royal Hospital has installed proper sewage disposal system that is vital and important to keep Asia Royal Hospital environment clean. The system includes conveyed biological treatment system. To utilize biological anaerobic treatment system, waste conveyed step by step treatment process such as equalization tank and waste water transferring system, bar screen and grit chamber, aeration tank and aeration system, sedimentation tank and sludge recycling system, chlorination tank, sludge transferred system and effluent disposal. As mentioned above, HSE policy was drawn, guidelines were well established, and these protocols are circulating to all employees properly. Hospitals are regarded as source of cross infection and contamination if safety measures and waste disposal system are not properly established. We need to be careful not to get cross infection to our customers, our stakeholders, and public. A powerful infection control committee including chief medical officer, senior consultant pathologist, consultant microbiologist and management staffs was well developed and collaborative infection control meetings has been conducted quarterly. Infection control team always screening of infectious cases carefully and Isolation done if necessary. Our concerns and performance regarding about environmental principles is to create Asia Royal Hospital as environmentally-friendly institution and our hospital must not be source of hospital cross infection and not be the source of contamination by wastes and sewage disposal. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 17 of 20 Environmentally friendly Practices are as follows: • Hospital wards and operation theaters were disinfected regularly. • ARH only use LED lamps for lighting inside and outside of the hospital compound with the purpose of reducing electricity consumption. • Management laid down the policies for all employees to close all of the electrical appliances after duty hours. • Fire safety plan, Electricity safety plan and emergency response teams are updated to respond in time. We also send our employee to attend fire safety manager (FSM) training conducted by Department of Fire Safety. • Drainage systems around the Asia Royal Hospital compound are cleaned regularly and maintain proper drainage system. • As we know that, our business is healthcare service providing business, all of our staffs must have proper personal hygiene and carrying out their daily operations safely and optimally, and personal grooming trainings are conducted continuously. Measurement of Outcomes Outcomes for measuring of environmental friendly activities are satisfactory and well maintained our safety quality. We had also noted that there is no evidence of infection breaking out and ill effects to public in year of 2018-2019. Personal grooming status and personal hygiene of our staffs has seen to be smart and satisfactory. HSE auditor team, Fire Safety team and infection controlled team are well developed. Emergency response team has been also well established and made ready to respond whenever disaster strikes. Anti-corruption Principles Policy and Protocols Anti-corruption Principles Our top Management strictly laid down Principle 10 : Business should work the rules and policies that do not allow any against corruption in all its forms, corruption and bribery regardless of any level including extortion and bribery. of management positions. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 18 of 20 Asia Royal Code of Conduct and Ethics forbid staff, agents and representatives from offering, promising or providing briberies directly or indirectly through third parties, in any form. Our institution’s policies do not allow corruption in any forms and has publicly stated our standing of zero-tolerance on corruption. Employee Grievance Policy Statement The purpose of this policy is to provide a system for every individual employee employing in Asia Royal Hospital to raise a grievance from their working place and work related place. Action plan under this policy statement ensure that such grievance are solved promptly and fairly and in accordance with other concerned policies. Top Management also encourages employees to communicate their grievance timely, honestly and follow the defined procedure strictly. In doing so, top management and middle management can know the real situation of Asia Royal and they can solve the human resource issues as quick as possible. Management can also precede the organizational development programs and practices effectively and efficiently. This policy is linking with the other policy statement prescribed by Myanmar national government such as code of criminals, code of harassment, etc. Any disciplinary and additional policies regarding human resource issues are also relating automatically with this policy. Implementation ARH management has maintained a check and balance system over every cash transactions carried out within each year. We also establish internal auditor team for financial matters. Moreover, tender bids and contracts terms are controlled and determined by Board of Directors or the committee and maintained transparency. Employee conciliation committee has been form to claim the employee rights and employee dispute issues formally and ethically according to Myanmar National Labor law. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 19 of 20 Measurement of Outcome No recorded case or no trace of corruption is found in ARH. Though it may not be easily detected corruption cases, ARH will never hesitate to take strong corrective action against such crimes Summary Asia Royal Hospital has been performed community contribution activities under the guidelines of ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and ARH did developmental changes in healthcare, human resources development, environmental maintenance and business sustainability by inspiring People, Planet, Profit (3Ps) Concept of CSR. Asia Royal's BOD team granted 100 million Myanmar Kyats per year for community contribution activities and we believe that our business model is totally alliance with CSR values and UNGC guidelines. ARH is under the control of Ministry of Health guidelines and supervised by the Department of Medical care. Also under the ethical guidelines of Myanmar Medial Council, Asia Royal Hospital is a member of Myanmar Private Hospital Association and also a member of American Hospital Association. This report attempted to cover all of the principles, activities and outcomes, policy, goal and implementation strategy in accordance with the guideline provided by UNGC Finally, ARH team is continuously providing safe and updated healthcare, improved working environment to all stakeholders by creating clean, healthy and caring environment to our public within the range of available resources. Prepared by HR Dept: Page 20 of 20
