CSR REPORT 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 ABOUT THIS 2 A WORD FROM 3 GROUP 6 SOCIAL 7 ENVIRONMENTAL 8 SOCIETAL REPORT THE PRESIDENT PROFILE INFORMATION INFORMATION INFORMATION Page 4 5 Page 8 9 Page 10 11 Page 50 51 Page 78 79 Page 110 111 4 OUR CSR 5 OUR ETHICS 9 CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH 10 EXTERNAL POLICY POLICY CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES VERIFICATION Page 20 21 Page 40 41 Page 134 135 Page 146 147 2 3 1. ABOUT THIS REPORT The 2018 CSR Report provides a detailed review of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) priorities and actions undertaken by the MANE Group, as well as any progress made towards achieving its 2021 targets. 4 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT 5 REPORTING REPORTING PERIOD METHODOLOGY The published non-financial information included in this report covers the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018. The aim of this report is to communicate clearly developments in the Group’s CSR activities and the progress made in implementing its commitments. In order to reinforce the relevance of our CSR report, it has been prepared in accordance with ISO 26000 and the G4 guidelines of the GRI. This report is also our way of complying with the French requirement to declare non-financial SCOPE OF performance as set out in Decree no. 2017-1265 of 9 August 2017, and the requirement for a yearly Communication on Progress (COP) as part of the United Nations Global Compact. C O N S O L I DAT I O N To make our report easier to read, a correlation table has been supplied at the end of this document that links the information contained within to the information required by the The scope of consolidation for the social, environmental and societal information referred to in this report following benchmarks: GRI G4, ISO 26000, decree no. 2017-1265 of 09/08/2017 and the 10 concerns all of the Group's sites in France including its head office and in Switzerland, the United principles of the Global Compact. The table lists the topics covered and their location in States, Indonesia, India, South Africa, Mexico, China, Brazil, Spain, Thailand, Colombia and Japan. These the 2018 CSR report: sites contributed 97% of the Group's consolidated turnover in 2018. Sites not included in the report are commercial buildings. QQ GRI G4, QQ ISO 26000, FRANCE QQ Decree n° 2017-1265 of 09/08/2017 QQ The 10 principles of the Global Compact SWITZERLAND CHINA The table shows the topics discussed and their location in the CSR 2018 report. C O N TAC T Contact person for any 620, route de Grasse questions relating to the report F-06620 Le Bar-sur-Loup and its contents: Tél. +33 4 93 09 70 00 JAPAN Luc Carrière www.mane.com Coordinator for Sustainable UNITED STATES Development luc.carriere@mane.com INDIA Carine Hazebroucq MEXICO SPAIN C SR Project Manager carine.hazebroucq@mane.com INDONESIA BRAZIL THAILAND SOUTH AFRICA COLOMBIA * The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent, international, non-profit organisation that supports companies, NGOs and other stakeholders. GRI was created in 1997 in partnership with the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). It has developed Sustainable Development reporting guidelines that are widely used around the world. These provide companies with an international benchmark to help them present an account of their economic, environmental and social performance. 6 ABOUT THIS REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT 7 2 . A WORD FROM THE PRESIDENT Our CSR strategy focuses on the following priorities: QQ Ensuring product quality and safety It was in 1871 that my great-grandfather, Victor, founded the company MANE in Bar-sur-Loup, where it still has QQ Reducing our environmental impact its head office today. Five generations have succeeded QQ Guaranteeing the health, safety and well-being of our employees each other to lead the eponymous MANE Group. As a in the workplace family business, we are committed to maintaining our independence, financial stability, and responsibility QQ Developing our employees' skills throughout their careers to our customers and employees. This governance allows us to maintain long-term relationships with all QQ Integrating CSR into our purchasing policy our partners. The MANE Group is dedicated not only to the global distribution of a range of products from across the fragrance and flavour sector, but also to developing an international presence, allowing us to be closer This is how we see Sustainable Development at MANE. to our customers. For many years, we have been reinvesting a considerable proportion of our profits In addition to our corporate responsibility, we also aim to in research and development, enabling us to provide contribute to society, particularly within the communities in which our customers with countless innovative solutions. we do business, in order to promote their development. MANE is committed to sustainable and profitable The aim of this report is to communicate clearly the CSR development, driven by a long-term vision. With this challenges we have faced, the practices and actions put in in mind, we have been developing our Corporate place to deal with them, and the progress made by the Group in Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy for several years meeting its CSR targets. now to find a balance between economic growth, respect for people, and environmental protection, all of which are essential for the long-term prosperity of I hope you find it interesting, our company. 8 A WORD FROM THE PRESIDENT A WORD FROM THE PRESIDENT 9 3. GROUP PROFILE V. MANE Fils has been an independent family business for five generations, specialising in the creation and production of fragrance and flavour compositions and ingredients for the food, cosmetics, pharmaceutical, chemical and tobacco industries. As a corporate citizen, the MANE Group has long pursued a strategy of international development. 10 GROUP PROFILE GROUP PROFILE 11 OUR S TO R Y From family adventure to international group In 1871, Victor Mane started producing fragrances from flowers and plants from the Pays de Grasse. Since then, the small distillery has grown successfully to become one of the leading fragrance and flavour companies in the world and has been continually run by the Mane family for almost 150 years. Victor Mane Victor’s sons Eugene and Gabriel modernised and developed the business internationally. Maurice Mane took over from his father, Eugene, in 1959. Under his leadership, the company increased its production capacity, set up research and analysis laboratories, diversified into flavours for the food industry and developed its network of international subsidiaries. In 1995, Maurice Mane retired to become Chairman of the Supervisory Board, while his eldest son Jean was appointed Group President, and his other son Michel, President of the Americas Region. His daughter Françoise is secretary of the Board of Directors. The three siblings are the sole members of the Board of Directors. In 2016, Samantha Mane, from the fifth generation of the family, took over as Director of the EMEA region for 3 divisions: flavours, fragrances and ingredients. The uncontested legitimacy of MANE is based on experience and the transfer of fundamental values through the years. 12 GROUP PROFILE GROUP PROFILE 13 OUR BUSINESS MODEL V. MANE FILS specialises in the creation and production of ingredients Our product ranges are as follows: for the food, cosmetics, pharmaceutical and chemical industries. As a socially responsible company, the MANE Group has pursued an QQ Aromatic raw materials: Essential oils, absolutes, resinoids, isolates, flavoring substances, international development strategy over a number of years with the extracts, pharmaceutical active ingredients, concrete following objectives: QQ Fragrance bases and compounds QQ Ensuring Sustainable Development, QQ Natural and synthetic flavors QQ Improving the quality of the delivered goods, QQ Ingredients and savoury additives mixtures QQ Preserving the Environment, QQ Vegetable protein distribution QQ Protecting its collaborators and sites. QQ Extracts and culinary preparations QQ Cooking-extrusion In France, V. MANE FILS is ranked in the first position in its sector of QQ Microcapsules and Macrocapsules flavours activity and is ranked fifth worldwide. QQ Supercritical fluids extraction The applications for our products are diverse: fine perfumery, cosmetics, soaps and detergents, household and industrial products, essential oils, beverages, confectionery, pastries, dairy products, pharmaceuticals (active substances & excipients), tobacco products, dairy products oral hygiene, salty and spicy food products, etc. 14 GROUP PROFILE GROUP PROFILE 15 MANE BUSINESS MODEL MANE creates value through its growth model, which transforms the capital raised into results for its partners and civil society in general. RESOURCES GROWTH MODEL RESULTS IMPACT Initial capital Sequence of activities Transformed capital Positive impacts for civil society FINANCIAL FINANCIAL (Financial capacity) PROMOTING RESEARCH & A robust financial situation QQ Stable family capital DEVELOPMENT QQ € 1253 m turnover End product sales INDUSTRIAL AND INTELLECTUAL ENSURING A SUPPLY OF RAW QQ Flavours 57% | Fragrances 35% | (Organisational resources, intangible assets MATERIALS Ingredients 8% and knowledge) QQ Industrial infrastructure INDUSTRIAL AND INTELLECTUEL MANAGING PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES Maintaining the highest level of product quality QQ Joint approach with local partners QQ 25 production sites in 12 countries and safety QQ 47 R&D centers around the world QQ Our expert manufacturing processes MARKETING PRODUCTS QQ 8.3% of turnover reinvested in R&D QQ Fight against climate change QQ Optimising natural resources ENVIRONMENTAL (Natural capital) ORGANISING THE SUPPLY CHAIN QQ Minimising the impact of discharged QQ Consumption of raw materials ENVIRONMENTAL Reducing our environmental footprint effluent QQ Over 100,000 tonnes of raw materials purchased from our suppliers OPTIMISING THE END-OF-LIFE OF QQ €11.3m in environmental investments PRODUCTS QQ 24% and 19% decrease in energy and water QQ Developing employability through consumption, respectively, since 2009 education HUMAN (Human Ressources) QQ 29% decrease in generated waste since QQ Maintaining good health in the 2009 workplace QQ An HR policy that strengthens human capital QQ 6300 employees QQ 1047 hires HUMAN Responsible employer Improving working conditions SOCIAL AND INTERPERSONAL Committed and motivated employees (Relationships and networks) Career opportunities QQ 59% reduction in the incidence of QQ Close, quality customer relationships accidents at work since 2009 QQ Established in 39 countries worldwide QQ Gender equality index score of 91/100 (France) SOCIAL AND INTERPERSONAL Loyal, satisfied customers Responsible procurement policy QQ Over 85,000 tonnes of raw materials sold to our customers QQ Over 90% of our purchasing volume from suppliers committed to a CSR policy SOCIETAL Partnerships and sponsorship activities QQ Over 200,000 euros donated to charity 16 GROUP PROFILE GROUP PROFILE 17 OUR EXTERNAL PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS COMMITMENTS MANE is involved in several professional trade federations and associations through employees who hold positions on their governing bodies, or who participate in projects and committees. Due to the number of employees involved, we have listed the associations with which MANE is strategically involved: QQ International Fragrance Association (IFRA) QQ Flavour & Extract Manufacturers Association (FEMA) QQ National Union of Flavour Manufacturers (PRODAROM) QQ International Organization of the Flavour Industry (IOFI) QQ European Flavour Association (EFFA) QQ European Federation of Essential Oils (EFEO) QQ Professional organisation for food flavouring manufacturers (SNIAA) QQ Parfums Arômes Senteurs Saveurs competitive cluster (Pôle PASS) QQ European Research Institute on Natural Ingredients (ERINI) The Group is involved in various local and international associations and organisations that QQ National Research and Technology Association (ANIA) develop its economic framework to encourage Sustainable Development in partnership with various company stakeholders. GLOBAL COMPACT CARING FOR CLIMATE CORPORATE DIVERSITY PARIS PLEDGE FOR BUSINESS AND CHARTER ACTION BIODIVERSITY PLEDGE Since 2003, MANE has been a In 2007, MANE signed the Caring In 2008, MANE signed a Corporate In 2015, MANE signed the Paris In 2016, MANE signed the Business signatory to the United Nations for Climate declaration. Launched in Diversity Charter. Launched at the Pledge for Action on climate change. and Biodiversity Pledge, an agreement Global Compact initiative. Launched 2007, Caring for Climate was jointly end of 2004 by Claude Bébéar Launched by the French presidency from the Convention on Biological in 1999 by the then Secretary convened by the United Nations and Yazid Sabeg, the Corporate of the COP21, the pledge invites nonDiversity (CBD) that allows economic General to the United Nations, Kofi Global Compact, the United Nations Diversity Charter is an undertaking sate actors (organisations, companies, leaders to give value to the importance Annan, the Global Compact calls on Environment Programme (UNEP) and that can be signed by any company regions, towns and investors) to commit of biodiversity and ecosystem services organisations around the world to the Secretariat of the United Nations that condemns discrimination in to ensuring the implementation of the in their activities and to express their voluntarily align their operations and Framework Convention on Climate the workplace and agrees to work Paris Agreement on climate change commitment to supporting biodiversity. policies to 10 universally accepted Change (UNFCCC) with the aim of towards supporting diversity. adopted on 12 December 2015. principles relating to human rights, promoting the role of companies in international working standards, the the fight against climate change. Environment and anti-corruption. 18 GROUP PROFILE GROUP PROFILE 19 4. OUR C SR CSR G OV E R N A N C E P O L I CY In order to incorporate Corporate Social Responsibility into its strategy, the MANE Group has implemented an internal CSR management system allowing it to define its commitments in line with its own interests and those of its stakeholders, and to integrate them operationally across all its activities. Through its decisions and activities, every company has an impact on its employees, customers and suppliers, as well as on the Environment The Group's CSR strategy is under the direct and Society as a whole. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is at responsibility of the Chairman of the Board of the heart of MANE’s strategy and is based on willingness to take Directors. It is managed by the Group's Sustainable responsibility for this impact and to turn it into a positive by taking Development Coordinator, who is responsible for into account the expectations of all stakeholders. drawing up, coordinating and promoting the CSR policy within the Group’s various departments and subsidiaries. To achieve this target, the Coordinator relies on a dedicated CSR Committee (comprising representatives from the Purchasing, Environment, HR, Quality, Regulatory Affairs & Product Safety and Internal Audit & Risk departments) and a network of around twenty CSR correspondents from the main manufacturing sites abroad. A CSR management review is performed once a year with the participation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and members of the CSR Committee. During the review, the Group’s CSR performance and target achievement rates are analysed in detail in order to assess the effectiveness of the internal CSR management system and, if necessary, to identify areas for improvement. The Sustainable Development Coordinator also performs internal communication, awareness-raising and employee training activities focusing on CSR challenges and promotes good practices within the Group. 20 OUR CSR POLICY OUR CSR POLICY 21 S TA K E H O L D E R S Our CSR strategy is based on identifying and taking into account the expectations of Group stakeholders. Our aim is to listen to their concerns and their expectations in order to provide an appropriate response, within a context of dialogue and partnership. CARTOGRAPHY OF STAKEHOLDERS OF THE GROUP LOCAL COMPETITORS AND STAKEHOLDERS EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS COMMUNITIES, PUBLIC LOCAL CUSTOMERS PROFESSIONAL NGOS AND AUTHORITIES RESIDENTS ASSOCIATIONS ASSOCIATIONS ‣‣ Protecting consumer health ‣‣ Respecting human rights ‣‣ ● Long-term partnerships ‣‣ ● Job creation ‣‣ Compliance with ‣‣ Preventing significant ‣‣ Knowledge sharing and safety and international working ‣‣ ● Fair practices ‣‣ ● Social investments regulations industrial hazards ‣‣ Fair competition ‣‣ Duty of care standards ‣‣ ● Sharing CSR practices ‣‣ ● Preventing significant ‣‣ Communication and ‣‣ Odour and noise nuisance ‣‣ Respecting intellectual MAIN ‣‣ Sustainable and equitable ‣‣ Working conditions and industrial hazards transparency property ‣‣ Preventing pollution EXPECTATIONS use of biodiversity Occupational Health and ‣‣ ● Preventing pollution AND CONCERNS ‣‣ Fair practices Safety (OHS) ‣‣ ● Sustainable use of natural ‣‣ Innovation ‣‣ Wages and incentive schemes resources ‣‣ Communication and ‣‣ Developing employability ‣‣ ● Protecting consumer transparency ‣‣ Equal treatment health and safety ‣‣ Satisfaction surveys ‣‣ Quality of life at work surveys ‣‣ ●Raising awareness and ‣‣ Discussions about ‣‣ Information and discussion ‣‣ Information leaflet on ‣‣ Information exchange ‣‣ Information exchange ‣‣ Occupational health providing information about solicitation meetings to explain Group industrial hazards for local meetings meetings ‣‣ Employee representative bodies CSR to suppliers (information ‣‣ Publishing the CSR report activities residents ‣‣ Flavours Days MECHANISMS FOR ‣‣ Customer audits ‣‣ Consultations with the Works exchange meetings, support (yearly) INFORMATION ‣‣ Sharing our CSR to evaluate practices, on-site information (e.g. Council (WC) and the OHSC audits, etc.) AND DIALOGUE ECOVADIS, SEDEX, CDP, (Occupational Health and Safety etc.) Committee) ‣‣ Publishing the CSR report ‣‣ Group Intranet (yearly) ‣‣ ●Yearly appraisals ‣‣ Evaluating product safety ‣‣ HR and OHS policies ‣‣ Buyers’ Code of Ethics ‣‣ Partnership or sponsorship ‣‣ Regulatory compliance ‣‣ Environmental and ‣‣ Competitive clusters (toxicology) ‣‣ Group Code of Ethics ‣‣ Responsible purchasing activities Sustainable Development ‣‣ MANE is a member of ‣‣ Quality and food safety ‣‣ Collective agreements ‣‣ Anti-corruption training for ‣‣ Visiting manufacturing sites policies several professional policies signed buyers ‣‣ Participating in ‣‣ Major accident prevention associations and RESPONSES ‣‣ Management certification ‣‣ Strategic planning for employment forums and policies federations PROVIDED BY systems (ISO 9001, IFS & Employment and Skills exhibitions ‣‣ Participating in sector and THE GROUP BRC, FSSC 22000, etc.) ‣‣ 2% of payroll dedicated to ‣‣ School-company collaborative projects ‣‣ Monitoring customer training partnerships satisfaction ‣‣ Disability policy ‣‣ Internships ‣‣ Collaborative partnerships ‣‣ Corporate diversity charter ‣‣ Responsible purchasing ‣‣ GREEN MOTION™ by MANE 22 OUR CSR POLICY OUR CSR POLICY 23 OUR MAIN CHALLENGES In order to reinforce the relevance of our strategy and our CSR reporting, we have performed a materiality analysis to identify our key challenges. Initially performed in 2008 (using the AFNOR (French organisation for standardisation) diagnostic tool SD 21000), we updated our methods in 2012 to incorporate the G4 guidelines from GRI and to develop some of the more significant challenges to our stakeholders and in our strategies. Our materiality matrix represents a subject's level of relevance in relation to its impact for MANE (horizontal axis) and its importance to our stakeholders (vertical axis). MATERIALITY MATRIX HIGH ‣‣ Preventing chemical hazards ‣‣ Protecting consumer health and safety ‣‣ External communication ‣‣ Dialogue with ‣‣ Social dialogue ‣‣ Human rights stakeholders ‣‣ Anti-corruption ‣‣ Occupational Health and ‣‣ Odour pollution ‣‣ development of human Safety ‣‣ Sustainable capital ‣‣ Working conditions IMPORTANCE TO consumption ‣‣ Eco-design ‣‣ Energy and CO2 emissions ‣‣ Sustainable and fair use ‣‣ Responsible purchasing of biodiversity STAKEHOLDERS ‣‣ Sponsorship ‣‣ Community ‣‣ Water consumption involvement and local ‣‣ Effluent development ‣‣ VOC emissions ‣‣ Internal communications ‣‣ Waste CURRENT OR POTENTIAL LOW IMPACT ON MANE HIGH 24 OUR CSR POLICY OUR CSR POLICY 25 OUR MAIN NON-FINANCIAL RISKS The Group operates in a competitive and constantly changing economic and MAP OF NON-FINANCIAL RISKS technological environment. MANE’s global presence, and the diversity of its activities, exposes the Group to social, environmental and societal risks, both ‣‣ Employee retention ‣‣ Traceability of raw materials internally and in connection with its business relationships and products. For ‣‣ Employee involvement and commitment ‣‣ Odour pollution the Group, a risk is the possibility of an event occurring that could affect ‣‣ Occupational stress linked to presenteeism ‣‣ Gender pay equality the company’s objectives, particularly those concerning its financial situation ‣‣ ISO 14001 certification and reputation. ‣‣ Tightening of product labelling rules ‣‣ Harmonisation of environmental practices within HIGH With this in mind, the CSR risks that could impact MANE are clearly identified the Group ‣‣ Regulation on ABS by the Group and dealt with so as to reduce their scope and occurrence as ‣‣ Disruption in the supply of raw matrials much as possible. To that end, the departments concerned have been involved ‣‣ Consumer demand for sustainaility in considering and shaping these risks (Human Resources, Environment, ‣‣ Social pressure/market tendency to ban Purchasing, Regulatory Affairs & Product Safety, Internal Audit & Risks, flavourings ‣‣ Food safety (scandals, allergies, etc.) IT). MANE has also built on its materiality analysis and risk assessments in ‣‣ Ensuring respect for property rights connection with the various processes followed during the transition to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001: 2015. Severity ‣‣ Shortage of talent ‣‣ Occupational risks In order to focus on significant non-financial risks for the Group, we have ‣‣ New HR demands of millennials ‣‣ Fight against corruption ranked them according to two factors: their likelihood of occurrence and ‣‣ Technological breakthroughs linked to digital transformation their severity. The following map therefore shows only the main non-financial ‣‣ Development of human capital risks that could impact the MANE Group in line with our material issues. ‣‣ Pollution ‣‣ Water consumption MEDIUM ‣‣ Increase in the cost of fossil fuels ‣‣ Exposure to risks linked to climate change ‣‣ Difficulty reducing CO2 emissions ‣‣ Impact of procurement activities on biodiversity ‣‣ Consideration of the CSR of subcontractors and carriers ‣‣ Higher customer expectations with regard to certified natural raw material chains ‣‣ Changes in the regulations on nanomaterials LOW RARE OCCASIONAL FREQUENT Likelihood of occurrence The following table describes each of the risks identified and the policies applied by the company to prevent and mitigate their occurrence. The descriptions and results of these policies, including the associated key performance indicators, are disclosed throughout this report. 26 OUR CSR POLICY OUR CSR POLICY 27 OUR MAIN NON-FINANCIAL RISKS NON-FINANCIAL OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH DEVELOPMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL EMPLOYMENT EQUAL TREATMENT POLLUTION RISK CATEGORIES AND SAFETY HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT ‣‣ High turnover at some Group sites (in ‣‣ Occupational risks related to the ‣‣ Employee training and ‣‣ Equal pay for men and ‣‣ Non-harmonisation of ‣‣ Odour complaints from China and the United States) general working Environment yearly appraisal rate below women environmental practices local residents (musculoskeletal disorders, 80% at some Group within the Group ‣‣ Talent shortage/Recruitment problems workplace accidents, occupational sites (risk of unsuitability ‣‣ Accidental spreading of diseases) for the job/inadequate ‣‣ 59% of product tonnage chemicals ‣‣ New demands of millennials in terms skills, obsolescence of shipped by ISO of management practices and work-life ‣‣ Health and toxicological risks knowledge, demotivation) 14001-certified production balance related to employees’ exposure to sites at the end of 2018 nanomaterials compared to a target of ‣‣ Technological breakthroughs linked 90% by 2021 DESCRIPTION OF to digital transformation (reduction in ‣‣ Occupational stress linked to THE RISKS human involvement, disappearance of presenteeism ‣‣ Increasingly strict labelling some jobs) rules affecting the ICPE (registered environmental ‣‣ No measure of the level of employee facility) and Seveso engagement (risk of demotivation, rankings of French sites absenteeism, resignations, poaching by competitors, etc.) ‣‣ Formalise a more relevant talent ‣‣ Set up occupational Health and Safety ‣‣ Take corrective action at ‣‣ Agreement relating to ‣‣ Draw up a CSR good ‣‣ Measures taken to limit management policy to create loyalty management systems at the Group’s the subsidiaries concerned gender equality in the practice guide for the odour impact of and, above all, motivate current and main production sites (prevention and workplace and work-life distribution within the manufacturing processes future talent risk control) balance signed in 2017 Group and effluent treatment POLICIES AND ‣‣ Take action to develop our employer ‣‣ Develop an audit methodology on ‣‣ Set up an equal pay index ‣‣ ISO 14001 certification of ‣‣ Role-play exercises on AREAS FOR brand and carry out communication exposure at workstations to assess pay differentials MANE production sites in accidental spreading IMPROVEMENT campaigns aimed at target schools in each company Indonesia and Colombia ‣‣ Identify nanomaterials Individual and in 2018 + ongoing ISO BEING CONSIDERED ‣‣ Draw inspiration from the demands of collective protection Removal of silica 14001 certification IN ORDER TO millennials to rethink the management projects for MANE Inc. PREVENT, IDENTIFY approach ‣‣ Set up a presenteeism monitoring tool production sites in the AND MITIGATE THE in the EMEA region United States and MANE OCCURRENCE OF ‣‣ Strategic Planning for Employment Iberica production sites THESE RISKS and Skills (scheduled for completion ‣‣ Establish a social barometer to in 2019/2020) measure employee engagement and the relevance of our social and management practices (in the EMEA region in 2019) ‣‣ Pages 30 to 33 IN THIS REPORT ‣‣ Pages 34 to 37 ‣‣ Pages 38 to 41 ‣‣ Pages 41 to 42 ‣‣ Pages 45 to 48 ‣‣ Pages 48 to 55 ‣‣ Page 38 28 OUR CSR POLICY OUR CSR POLICY 29 OUR MAIN NON-FINANCIAL RISKS NON-FINANCIAL PROTECTING SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE USE CLIMATE CHANGE SUPPLIERS AND FAIR PRACTICES RISK CATEGORIES BIODIVERSITY CONSUMER HEALTH CONSUMPTION OF RESOURCES SUBCONTRACTORS AND SAFETY ‣‣ High water consumption ‣‣ Exposure of some Group ‣‣ Impact of the activities of ‣‣ Higher customer expectations ‣‣ Social pressure/market ‣‣ Higher consumer demand ‣‣ Some Group sites are at some Group production sites to the consequences our suppliers on biodiversity regarding the traceability of the tendency to ban flavourings for products that are located in countries at sites of climate change (extreme (deforestation, pollution, geographical origin of natural (context: lobbying of environmentally friendly, high risk of corruption weather events, earthquakes, depletion of resources) raw materials (context: Nagoya consumer associations, Yuka organic, natural, vegan, according to the CPI index ‣‣ Increase in the cost of fossil tsunamis, floods, droughts, Protocol, blockchain) app, etc.) more respectful of animal of the NGO Transparency fuels landslides, etc.) ‣‣ Changing demands of society welfare and of a higher International Consumer preference is ‣‣ Disruptions in the supply of ‣‣ Changes in the regulations nutritional quality ‣‣ Problems reducing CO2 moving towards products with strategic raw materials (e.g. on nanomaterials in food and ‣‣ Breach of a patent filed by emissions linked directly to a low impact on biodiversity supply failures, single supplier cosmetics MANE by a competitor or the Group’s activities (e.g. Sustainable palm oil, situations, natural disasters, customer organic products, etc.) etc.) ‣‣ Food safety (scandals, allergens, etc.) DESCRIPTION OF ‣‣ Complexity of regulations ‣‣ Higher customer expectations THE RISKS relating to access to genetic regarding the chains of resources and the fair and certified natural raw materials equitable sharing of the (e.g. RSPO, Rainforest Alliance, benefits arising from their use UEBT, organic) (ABS) ‣‣ Take CSR into account in relationships with subcontractors and carriers ‣‣ Targeted action to reduce ‣‣ Targeted action ongoing ‣‣ Biodiversity is ‣‣ Develop IT systems to ‣‣ Organise EFFA “Flavour ‣‣ Develop a specific ‣‣ Draw up an anti-corruption consumption at the incorporated into our incorporate the geographical Days” with the involvement range of products to framework (Code of subsidiaries concerned ‣‣ Set up an energy responsible purchasing origin of natural raw materials of MANE meet this demand Ethics, Ethics Committee, management system at policy purchased (e.g. products offered whistleblowing hotline, ‣‣ Set up an energy the Bar-sur-Loup site, ‣‣ Substitute nanomaterials as animal protein anti-corruption training) management system at in Quéven, and the ‣‣ Policy for the purchasing ‣‣ Reduction in the use of where possible (e.g. silica) substitutes, products KANCOR-MANE site, in distributors in the Sense Capture ‣‣ Oversight of the Legal the Bar-sur-Loup site, of sustainable palm oil + risk assessment range with lower and Intellectual Property in Quéven, and the Angamaly drawn up in June 2017 ‣‣ Develop long-term partnerships department ‣‣ Set up quality and food sugar and salt KANCOR-MANE site, in with strategic suppliers POLICIES AND Angamaly ‣‣ Contract signed for the ‣‣ Ongoing monitoring of safety management content, etc.) AREAS FOR supply of electricity from regulations on ABS with ‣‣ Develop partnerships and joint systems at the main Group IMPROVEMENT renewable sources the involvement of the ventures to incorporate MANE sites (IFS/BRC, ISO 22000 BEING CONSIDERED Purchasing, Regulatory at an earlier point in the raw certifications) to prevent, IN ORDER TO ‣‣ Voluntary offsetting Affairs, Environment/CSR materials supply chain identify and mitigate the PREVENT, IDENTIFY and Sales departments ‣‣ Draw up a plan to secure occurrence of health risks AND MITIGATE THE ingredients (risk mitigation plan) OCCURRENCE OF ‣‣ Contract with TK’Blue Agency, THESE RISKS a labelling and non-financial ratings agency for carriers IN THIS REPORT ‣‣ Pages 55 to 59 ‣‣ Pages 59 to 64 ‣‣ Pages 64 to 66 ‣‣ Pages 70 to 75 ‣‣ Page 76 ‣‣ Page 77 ‣‣ Pages 26 to 28 30 OUR CSR POLICY OUR CSR POLICY 31 OUR COMMITMENTS On the basis of the significant challenges and risks emerging from our materiality analysis and non-financial risk assessments, we have defined the key CSR commitments for MANE, formalised through our Group Sustainable Development Policy. OUR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY QQ Answer for the impact that our company QQ Conserve and ensure the sustainable has on society and the Environment in a and equitable use of biodiversity. transparent manner. QQ Reduce Greenhouse Gas emissions QQ Always behave in an ethical manner and improve the energy efficiency of in areas concerning good business processes. practices, particularly in the fight against QQ Continue to improve product quality corruption. and safety. QQ Take into consideration the interests of QQ Ensure the health, safety and well-being stakeholders and work to respect them. of employees in the workplace. QQ Comply with all local laws and regulations QQ Promote and respect diversity in the in effect as well as international behavioural workplace and fight against all forms of standards by respecting the principle of discrimination. legality. QQ Develop human capital by favouring QQ Promote and respect the protection of the employability of employees though rights set out in the Universal Declaration training and strategic workforce planning. of Human Rights within the company's QQ Apply a sustainable purchasing policy sphere of influence. that aims to make suppliers aware of CSR and to evaluate their environmental QQ Incorporate CSR into the management and social performance. system. QQ Develop products and processes that are more respectful of the Environment and Humankind. 32 OUR CSR POLICY OUR CSR POLICY 33 2 0 2 1 TA R G E T S A N D 2 0 1 8 R E S U LT S In order to provide an overview of the Group's progress in each of its Sustainable Development undertakings, we set ourselves quantified targets for 2021, when the Group will celebrate its 150th anniversary. Target achievement is measured using specific performance indicators compared to a 2009 baseline. ENVIRONMENT Increase to over 80% Increase to 90% the Reduce energy Reduce CO2 emissions Increase the proportion of Reduce water consumption Reduce hazardous waste Increase the total the quantities produced TARGETS percentage of product consumption per tonne of (Scopes 1 and 2) per total energy consumption per tonne of product by 15% produced per tonne of proportion of recycled of natural extracts and tonnage shipped by ISO product by 20% compared tonne of product by 15% from renewable sources compared to 2009 product by 33% compared waste (hazardous and synthetic molecules with a 2021 14001 certified sites by to 2009 compared to 2009 to more than 10% to 2009 non-hazardous) to more GREEN MOTIONTM score 2021 than 80% of 50/100 or more RESULTS 70% of quantities produced 59% of product tonnage 24% decrease in energy 1% decrease in CO2 14% of energy consumption 19% decrease in water 29% decrease in waste 79% of waste recycled at the of natural extracts and shipped by ISO 14001 consumption compared to emissions compared to from renewable sources at consumption compared to production compared to end of 2018 2018 synthetic molecules with a certified sites at the end 2009 2009 the end of 2018 2009 2009 score of 50/100 or more at of 2018 the end of 2018 TARGET ON TARGET ON TARGET TARGET NOT TARGET TARGET TARGET ON TARGET ON TRACK TO BE TRACK TO BE ACHIEVED AND ACHIEVED ACHIEVED AND ACHIEVED AND TRACK TO BE TRACK TO BE ACHIEVED ACHIEVED EXCEEDED EXCEEDED EXCEEDED ACHIEVED ACHIEVED 34 OUR CSR POLICY OUR CSR POLICY 35 SOCIAL Maintain absenteeism at Reduce the frequency Increase the proportion of Increase the proportion of less than 4% rate for workplace employees taking at least one employees participating in TARGETS accidents with leave by training programme over the an interview or assessment 33% compared to 2009 course of the year to more over the course of the year 2021 than 80% to more than 80% 2.2% absenteeism rate 47% decrease in frequency 88% of employees received 83% of employees were in 2018 rate for accidents training in 2018 interviewed or assessed in 2018 RESULTS compared to 2009 2018 TARGET TARGET TARGET TARGET ACHIEVED AND ACHIEVED AND ACHIEVED AND ACHIEVED AND EXCEEDED EXCEEDED EXCEEDED EXCEEDED RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Increase our purchasing Ensure 50% of key suppliers volume from suppliers undergo a CSR assessment TARGERS committed to a CSR policy (on-site audit by MANE, to more than 90% ECOVADIS assessment or 2021 SMETA audit) 90% of our purchasing 38% of key suppliers volume was from suppliers underwent a CSR RESULTS committed to a CSR policy assessment at the end at the end of 2018 of 2018 2018 TARGET TARGET ON ACHIEVED TRACK TO BE ACHIEVED 36 OUR CSR POLICY OUR CSR POLICY 37 ASSE SSMENTS AND EXTERNAL RECOGNITION AWARDS RECEIVED Assessments and recognition from experts in Sustainable Development improve the credibility and transparency of the group’s CSR strategy for its stakeholders. Our commitment and QQ Top Sustainable Family Business Award 2018 success in this field have been recognised by independent organisations. Family businesses are vital to the heath of the European economy. They are responsible for over 50% of private sector activity in the eurozone and play a key role in the economic recovery of many economies in the region. That’s why each year, CampdenFB, in partnership with Société Générale Private Banking, recognises this vital and dynamic sector through the “European Families in Business Awards 2018”, marked the seventh year of the ceremony. In 2018, the awards ceremony took place in Madrid on 12 June. On this occasion, around a hundred members of business-owning families, their directors and advisers came together for a prestigious gala and awards dinner. Our ECOVADIS CDP President, Jean Mane, accompanied by his nephew, Victor Mane, a member of the fifth generation, received the “Sustainable Family Business” award in recognition of the Group's efforts in terms of Sustainable Development EcoVadis provides a platform for companies to Each year, MANE completes the CDP (known as and Ethics, particularly the establishment of a whistleblowing hotline in 2016 and the creation of the Group evaluate the CSR practices of their suppliers. MANE the Carbon Disclosure Project until the end of 2012) Ethics Committee, which reports directly to the President. completes this questionnaire every year at the questionnaire which questions and ranks companies behest of several key customers. The assessment on their understanding of the issues and their QQ Trophée Défis RSE 2017 score is calculated based on 21 indicators across performance in terms of the fight against climate 4 areas: environment, social, business ethics and change (CDP Climate Change) and water resource Created in 2012, the Trophées Défis RSE (CSR Challenge Awards) aim to add value to responsible purchasing. In 2018, MANE achieved management (CDP Water). In 2018, the Group once the commitments, results and sustainability of a company's CSR approach. The awards an overall score of 70/100, placing the Group once again achieved a B grade for the CDP Climate Change are sponsored by BNP Paribas, Ethifinance, Harmonie Mutuelle and Suez, all recognized again in the Advanced CSR performance category, and CDP Water Supply Chain questionnaires (scale for their CSR policies, and the judging panel includes professional network experts in with a Gold commitment level. This score places us from A to E, with A being the best). their fields. In 2017, 52 companies were nominated for the 5th edition of the ceremony. in the top 1% of companies assessed by EcoVadis in MANE was awarded the Trophée Défis RSE 2017 for the Environment category. our sector. QQ Trophée de l’Innovation RH 2017 Two years after being awarded the Contrat de Génération (intergenerational contract), MANE received the Trophée de l’Innovation RH (HR Innovation Award) in 2017 for its “Manager First” project. CAP 26000 SMETA The management guide developed by MANE, and the cornerstone of this approach, is a powerful and recognised Since 2014, we have voluntarily had our CSR policy SMETA is an ethical audit process carried out by an social innovation because it lets each manager know exactly what the company expects of them, gives them assessed by an independent third-party organisation. independent third-party organisation which the MANE ways to achieve the targets set for them and focuses cooperation between managers and their employees on The CAP 26000 assessment by Bureau Veritas Group applies to its key sites. The audit programme continuous progress and positive reinforcement. Certification assesses the 4 key elements of CSR: using the 4 pillars of the SMETA benchmark, As such, this approach, recognised by the Trophée de l’Innovation RH 2017, stands out from the benchmarks Incorporation of social responsibility, stakeholder developed by SEDEX, includes the following areas: normally used in companies. involvement, communication and transparency, results health and safety, labour standards, Environment and progress. MANE was awarded an overall score of and business ethics. All our manufacturing sites have 71/100 as a result of a complete and structured CSR been subject to at least one SMETA audit, and each QQ 2016 Global Compact Best Communication on Progress award policy with a solid foundation built over several years site has shared its audit report and any corrective of effort, strategic aims and an action plan . MANE has measures with customers who express an interest, The French network of the United Nations Global Compact presents an award each incorporated the results of this external assessment through the SEDEX platform. year for the Best Communication on Progress. This competition rewards businesses as part of its process of continuous improvement. and non-profit organisations that produced an exemplary Communication on Progress (CoP) the previous year. In 2016, the MANE Group won the Best Communication on Progress Award in the ETI” (medium-sized enterprises) category for the relevance and 38 OUR CSR POLICY quality of its reporting. OUR CSR POLICY 39 5 . OUR ETHICS POLICY For MANE, being a responsible company is about ethical conduct and practices. In all countries where MANE has a presence, our aim is to carry out our activities with honesty, fairness and integrity. 40 OUR ETHICS POLICY OUR ETHICS POLICY 41 GROUP CODE OF ETHICS The MANE Code of Ethics Published for the first time in There are also variations of the is the Group's benchmark 2013, the Code of Ethics was Group Code of Ethics specific to document setting out the reviewed in 2017, following employees involved in purchasing values and principles that consultation and approval (Purchasing Department, Technical govern the Group's activities by the MANE FRANCE Department, IT Department, and those of its partners. The Works Council (WC) and Design Office, Travel Assistants, Code of Ethics helps MANE Occupational Health and etc.) as well as for subsidiary employees adopt, support and Safety Committee (OHSC). directors and Group financial apply, while carrying out their This latest version introduces directors who are particularly duties, a set of fundamental the idea of conflicts of interest exposed to the risk of values in the fields of human and a whistleblowing hotline corruption. These Codes of rights, work and environmental allowing any employee faced Ethics have been signed by the standards and the fight against with a difficult situation or relevant employees. Internal corruption. It is available in infraction to notify the Group's training and a quizz have 24 languages. In France, each Ethics Committee and receive been made available to these employee personally receives advice and support on how employees to raise awareness a copy of the code when they best to proceed. and train them in preventing are hired. and managing corruption risks. ETHICS COMMITTEE Ethics within the Group hotline. Group employees can harassment or discrimination are managed by the Ethics contact the Committee directly in the workplace as a result of Committee. Set up in 2017 using the following email reporting a violation. by the Group's Executive address: ethics@mane.com Committee, its members report to notify them of any known directly to the Chairman of the or suspected violation of the Board of Directors. The aim Code of Ethics. The Group of the Ethics Committee is to undertakes to guarantee the examine any issue relating to anonymity of the whistleethics: preventive analysis of blower* and shall ensure that ethical risks, recommendations, anyone who reports, in good investigations and disciplinary faith, a known or suspected measures linked to alerts violation of the Code of Ethics received through the ethics does not suffer reprisals, 42 OUR CSR POLICY OUR ETHICS POLICY 43 ANTI-CORRUPTION SCHEME With the Sapin II law relating to transparency, In order to comply with this legal requirement, MANE anti-corruption and economic modernisation of strengthened its ethics framework in 2017. Thus, the 9 December 2016, France introduced into its antiGroup implemented an anti-corruption process that corruption legislation the requirement to implement uses policies and procedures to formalise MANE's measures to prevent and detect corruption in commitment to fighting corruption. It focuses on the companies with more than 500 employees and a following measures: turnover of more than 100 million euros. QQ The Group Code of Ethics and its variations that define and illustrate the various types of behaviour to be banned as likely to characterise corruption. The Group Code of Ethics is incorporated into the existing regulatory framework; QQ An internal ethics alert mechanism designed to allow the collection of alerts from employees relating to conduct or situations that violate the Group Code of Ethics; QQ A map of corruption risks designed to identify and prioritise the Group's risk of exposure to corruption, particularly in relation to the geographical areas in which the Group operates (taking into account the corruption perception index from Transparency International); QQ Procedures to assess the situation of business partners in relation to the risk map (e.g. suppliers); QQ Accounting control procedures; QQ An internal training programme and quiz for executives and employees most exposed to the risks of corruption; QQ A disciplinary system allowing Group employees to be sanctioned if they violate the Group Code of Ethics; QQ An internal monitoring and evaluation system for the measures implemented. All Group employees involved in the management of its subsidiaries, foreign finance and purchasing departments have signed their specific Codes of Ethics. 130 employees whom we have identified as most exposed to the risk of corruption as a result of their positions have undergone online awareness training on the risk of corruption and preventing and detecting acts of corruption, and completed a quizz to test their knowledge. 44 OUR ETHICS POLICY OUR ETHICS POLICY 45 RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR S TA N DA R D S MANE is committed to supporting and For many years, this commitment has been respecting the protection of internationally taken as far as possible by the Group's proclaimed human rights and the fundamental Senior Management, through MANE's conventions of the International Labour commitment to the United Nations Global Organisation (ILO) both internally and in its Compact (in 2003), signature to the sphere of influence. This means that the Corporate Diversity Charter (in 2008), Group respects freedom of association, and the development of a Sustainable recognises the right to collective bargaining, Development Policy (2008), Purchasing will contribute to eliminating all forced or and Sustainable Development Charter compulsory work and child labour, and will for suppliers (2009) and the Group Code fight against any type of employment or of Ethics (2013). professional discrimination. For an international group like MANE, this requires constant vigilance over both partner and supplier relationships. The Group uses Human Resources policies and procedures as well as internal audits and internal monitoring to ensure that these rights are respected internally, and in all its subsidiaries. In terms of purchasing, these issues are monitored as part of our responsible purchasing policies (asking suppliers to sign up to the MANE’s Purchasing and Sustainable Development Charter, a CSR selfassessment questionnaire, on-site audits). 46 OUR ETHICS POLICY OUR ETHICS POLICY 47 COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT In 2003, MANE was the first company in the fragrance and flavour industry to sign up to the United Nations Global Compact. By subscribing, MANE voluntarily committed to incorporating the following 10 principles into its policy: THE 10 PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, within the scope of their influence 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses INTERNATIONAL LABOUR STANDARDS 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. Businesses should uphold the abolition of child labour 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges “For the sixteenth consecutive year, MANE is In order to demonstrate our commitment clearly, we 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental supporting the Global Compact and renewing its publish a yearly Communication of Progress (CoP). responsibility commitment to implementing and promoting the 10 All our CoP reports are available on the Global 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of universally recognised principles into its strategy, Compact website through the following link: environmentally friendly technologies organisational culture and operations, within a framework of continuous improvement. https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/ FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Jean M. Mane participants/6328-Mane 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion This year, our CSR report is also our CoP for 2019. and bribery 48 OUR ETHICS POLICY OUR ETHICS POLICY 49 6 . SOCIAL INFORMATION We believe the success of the MANE Group is built above all on the expertise of its employees. Employees are the Group's main source of wealth and enable it to be a major participant in the fragrance and flavour industry. Our aim is to encourage them to thrive in the workplace whilst offering them a safe and healthy working environment. 50 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 51 HUMAN RE SOURCE S POLICY The MANE Human Resources Policy is based on the following four guidelines that are applied from recruitment and for the duration of each employee's stay within the company. GUARANTEE AND ENCOURAGE ASSERTING OUR ROLE AS A DEVELOPING OUR EMPLOYEES’ PROVIDING LIVING CONDITIONS THAT A CULTURE OF PROFESSIONAL COMPANY THAT CARES ABOUT ITS PROFESSIONAL SKILLS SUPPORT QUALITY WORK EXCELLENCE ENVIRONMENT AND ITS PEOPLE The expertise of its employees is the As a diverse and outward looking Due to the initial and continuous training It is in the field, by continuously main source of wealth in a creative company, MANE ensures that close policy we have for our employees imagining new solutions to improve and manufacturing company such as local ties are a key part of its Human and our customers, we can anticipate working conditions for our employees, ours. MANE aims to recognise their Resources policy. As part of this and support developments in our that we demonstrate our excellence. By commitment and worth by helping them important commitment, we respect professions and the specific needs of creating a good working Environment for grow through their work. We support diversity, support our most vulnerable our community. The MANE Academy our employees, preventing workplace internal professional and geographical employees and encourage social dialogue. Campus will soon offer motivating accidenats and occupational diseases, mobility, personalised development The dissemination of social standards professional training courses. From the empowering our employees and their plans and a fair wage policy in order supports equality of opportunity for all moment they are hired, our employees managers in occupational health and to provide motivation for personal and our employees, wherever the company is are provided with a personalised safety, and balancing home and work professional development. located, by ensuring they have access to induction programme, adapted to their life, we ensure they are able to commit adequate living and working conditions profile, the diversity of their roles and efficiently to serving our industrial and access to basic knowledge. organisations and the specific nature customers as well as the millions of of the tasks they need to perform. This consumers we serve indirectly every day programme can take several forms. across the world. 52 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 53 E M P LOY M E N T TOTAL WORKFORCE As of 31 December 2018, the Group's total workforce (permanent and fixed-term contracts) consisted of 6,304 employees, compared to 5,992 on 31 December 2017, an increase of 5% between 2017 and 2018. 31 December 2017 31 December 2018 5 992 +5% 6 304 COLLABORATORS COLLABORATORS EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY Others Colombia Spain Thailand France Brazil China Mexico South Africa United States Indonesia India Geographically, the three countries with the largest number of employees are France with 1,710 employees, the United States (920 employees) and India (689). Together, these three countries account for 53% of the Group's total workforce. MANE continues to increase its presence in the rest of the world and specifically in Indonesia, South Africa, Mexico and China, which represented 29% of the total workforce at the end of 2018. FRANCE UNITED STATES INDIA 1 710 COLLABORATORS 920 COLLABORATORS 689 COLLABORATORS 54 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 55 SCOPE DISTRIBUTION BY AGE AND GEOGRAPHICAL AREA The scope of consolidation for the social data set out below relates to employees as of 31 December EMEA ASIA AMERICAS WORLD 2018 across all MANE Group sites in the following countries. This sample represents 93% of the Group's total workforce. <30 28 % 33 % 22 % 27 % 30-50 51 % 62 % 58 % 57 % DISTRIBUTION OF GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS >50 21 % 5% 20 % 16 % EMEA ASIA AMERICAS South Africa China United States DISTRIBUTION BY TYPE OF CONTRACT AND GEOGRAPHICAL AREA Spain India Brazil Indonesia France Japan Colombia Switzerland Thailand Mexico Permanent EMEA ASIA AMERICAS WORLD contracts Fixed-term 91 % 80 % 100 % 91 % EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA contracts 9% 20 % 0% 9% EMEA ASIA AMERICAS 2018 43 % 29 % 28 % 91% of Group employees have permanent contracts, which is a 2 percent increase on last year. The high level (20%) of fixed-term contracts in the Asia region reflects the practices of the Chinese DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER AND GEOGRAPHICAL AREA market where contracts cannot exceed 3 years. EMEA ASIA AMERICAS WORLD However, it should be noted that in China, employees who have been with the company for more 59 % 65 % 58 % 61 % than 10 years will be able to benefit from a permanent contract, as will employees who have 41 % 35 % 42 % 39 % completed more than two temporary contracts. 56 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 57 RECRUITMENT AND DEPARTURES WAGES MANE believes that the Group's future depends on its ability to attract and retain talent. A fair, motivating and equitable wage system is one way of achieving this. EMEA ASIA AMERICAS WORLD Our wage policy has two aims: TOTAL NUMBER OF HIRINGS 449 278 320 1 047 TOTAL NUMBER OF DEPARTURES* 159 177 226 562 QQ Offer an appealing, stimulating and competitive wage system and INCLUDING DISMISSALS 49 12 94 155 working conditions that are in line with market practices; TURNOVER** 7% 11 % 13 % 10 % QQ Ensure internal fairness to motivate and involve employees. MEN 8 % 10 % 14 % 10 % WOMEN 7 % 13 % 13 % 11 % We do not discuss wage amounts or increases as we believe this information should remain confidential. However, in all the countries in which the Group is present, we respect the minimum wage set by local * Dismissals, resignations, retirements and deaths legislation. For example, in 2016 in France, the Group's (excluding the end of fixed-term contracts and probationary periods at the request of the employer) management signed a collective agreement with ** Total number of departures during the year divided by the total number of employees at the end of the employee representative bodies to ensure a minimum year and multiplied by 100. general increase in wages that is significantly higher than inflation, in order to strengthen purchasing power and provide a rewarding wage policy for all employees. The MANE Group hired 1047 employees in 2018 (4% (below 4%), the context of full employment makes it In France, MANE also links its employees to the more than in 2017) The EMEA region is the Group’s difficult to create loyalty among employees. company's results through a Company Savings Scheme main recruiter with 43% of hires. This is followed by (profit-sharing, incentives). The company then returns the Americas (30%) and Asia (27%). Market, MANE is considering implementing a more a share of any profit to its employees as a yearly bonus. relevant talent management policy in order to create The amount of the bonus and its distribution are There were 562 departures in 2018, 2% less than at loyalty and, above all, encourage engagement and decided by an internal agreement between managers the end of 2017. motivation among current and future talent. The and employee representative bodies. A Company Group is also working to adopt measures to develop Savings Scheme (CSS) has also been set up in France. At Group level, the average staff turnover was its employer brand and carry out communication This is a collective savings scheme, allowing employees 10%. However, this average masks large disparities campaigns aimed at target schools. Particular to build a securities portfolio within the company. between countries with, for example, low rates of attention is also being paid to the new demands of Voluntary employee contributions are topped up by 4% in France (74 departures, including 19 dismissals) millennials, particularly by considering changes in company contributions (subscriptions). and 8% at KANCOR-MANE in India, compared to management practices and the organisation of work high rates of 15% in the United States and 24% in (work-life balance). China. In China, the war for talent and constant wage inflation are problems that our local recruitment teams must now deal with. In the United States, where there is a very low unemployment rate 58 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 59 O R G A N I S AT I O N O F WO R K QUALITY OF LIFE AT WORK ABSENTEEISM Ensuring quality of life at work is a challenge that not only involves preventing occupational stress and decreasing ABSENTEEISM absenteeism but also developing the appeal of the company and improving creativity, commitment, motivation and RATE* EMEA ASIA AMERICAS WORLD employee loyalty. The Group undertakes many activities to improve working Environment and conditions. MANE's 2018 3,8 % 0,9 % 3,0 % 2,2 % quality of life at work policy aims to help every employee balance their work and home lives and is built on the following principles: * Number of days absent over a 12-month period, compared to the number of working days expected for the employee over the same period. In 2018, the Group absenteeism rate was 2.2% compared to 2.6% in 2017, a low rate that generally reflects the high workplace morale of our employees. Our aim for 2021 is to maintain the rate at less than 4%. We have achieved and exceeded this for several years running. The overall QQ Develop support for employee organisations by absenteeism rate in France dropped from 7.2% in 2009 to 3.6% in 2018. implementing remote working and reinforcing the right to disconnect; QQ Start a new phase of occupational risk prevention; Q Q Increase management capacity so that managers can be even more involved in managing their teams (ensuring appropriate training and support methods and tools are available); QQ Support employees in managing illness: extend the transfer of leave days for child illness provided by the company, implement a family carer policy and create part-time jobs for family carers; QQ Make daily life easier for employees by implementing ma.conciergerie. MANE (overall management by a partner/provider offering high added value services to improve daily life) as well as optimising meeting times and improving social spaces. 60 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 61 O C C U PAT I O N A L H E A LT H AND SAFETY OUR RESULTS 2009 2016 2017 2018 PREVENTION POLICY NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS IN THE WORKPLACE 69 54 76 67 In order to prevent occupational hazards in the workplace, including NUMBER OF OCCUPATIONAL 0 0 0 2 those linked to stress, MANE is prepared to work with all relevant DISEASES stakeholders. Managers and supervisors drive the policy and any resulting actions. The OHSC, employee representative bodies and NUMBER OF DAYS LOST / 1 205 1 370 1 078 the occupational health department are also stakeholders in the process, along with all our employees, whose role is to identify any NUMBER OF HOURS WORKED 4 536 499 8 216 045 9 723 304 10 649 584 risks and develop and implement the preventive action plan. INCIDENCE* 15,2 6,6 7,8 6,3 MANE's management of health and safety is based on risk assessment in the following areas: LEVEL OF SEVERITY** / 0,15 0,14 0,10 QQ Occupational risk assessment to identify, assess and classify risks in order to implement relevant preventive measures. The results of this occupational risk assessment are recorded in a “single 2009 2018 EVOLUTION: 59 % document” made available to members of the OHSC, employee representatives and the occupational physician; QQ Analysis and handling of accidents and near-accidents to identify the * Number of workplace accidents leading to more than one day of lost time, occurring during a 12-month period, compared to a million hours worked. ** Number of days lost per 1000 hours worked. various contributing elements and implementation of appropriate corrective and preventive measures; QQ Safety behaviour visits. Noise, manual handling of loads and alternating shifts have been identified as being the main causes of stress in our company. MANE therefore takes all appropriate measures to prevent stress, such as, for example, adapting relevant workstations or reducing the noise level of machines. Our manufacturing sites in Mexico, China and India (KANCOR-MANE), representing 22% of the Group’s employees, are OHSAS 18001 certified (Occupational Health and Safety Management Standard). 62 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 63 Frequency rate for accidents (number of accidents per million hours worked) 15,2 7,8 6,6 6,3 MANAGING INDUSTRIAL HAZARDS OCCUPATIONAL STRESS Activities carried out at our manufacturing units Occupational stress is also incorporated into generate industrial hazards that can have an our prevention policy in the same way as other 2009 2015 2016 2017 occupational hazards. Occupational stress can be impact on employees, the external Environment and neighbouring communities. Our French sites caused by activities themselves or triggered by >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: located in Bar-sur-Loup (Notre-Dame and La Sarrée) the organisation of work and working relationships are registered environmental facilities (ICPE) and (excessive workload, confrontational relationships, 2021 Objective: are subject to the European Seveso directive. This management styles, intensity and complexity of work, Reduce by 33% the frequency rate for accidents at work with leave compared to 2009 is the context in which we developed our Major etc.) As exposure to these work situations can affect Accident Prevention Policy, defining our industrial the health of our employees (depression, anxiety, risk management roadmap. We make particular use burnout), occupational stress must be taken into 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2018 of training, awareness and employee accountability account. It is therefore necessary to assess it, plan as well as incorporating industrial safety at the earliest suitable preventive measures and prioritise collective stage of site design, planning regular exercises to measures to avoid these risks as early as possible. understand emergency situations and carrying out -33% -59% regular internal audits. Finally, and most importantly, In 2011, in partnership with the occupational health we strive to communicate as transparently as possible department, MANE hired an independent consulting in matters of industrial safety, both internally and firm for help in measuring employee stress levels in FOCUS ON FRANCE externally, in order to maintain trust with employees, order to rank the main causes of stress and draw up local residents and local authorities. a corrective or preventive action plan, as appropriate. Thanks to a collaborative effort, the Group has In 2018, the incidence rate of workplace accidents at In line with this approach, which has already been recorded a considerable drop in the incidence of MANE sites in France was 8.5, significantly below the in place for many years, MANE continues to raise workplace accidents since 2009. At the end of 2018, French national average of 14.4 in the chemical, rubber awareness and provide training on stress prevention a total of 67 accidents with leave were recorded, and plastic industries (source: national statistics on for our managers and executives. We also provide which is 9 fewer than in 2017. In 2018, the incidence accident rates in 2017 from the workplace accidents training for medical staff on how to support people of workplace accidents for Group employees was and occupational diseases branch of the French who may be experiencing difficulties. A survey aimed 6.3 accidents per million hours worked, which is a health insurance system). It should be added that the at preventing occupational stress is carried out every 5 decrease of 59% compared to 2009. For the third level of severity of 0.12 is also well below the French years in France (it has already been carried out twice). year in a row, we have achieved and exceeded our national average of 0.9 in the chemical, rubber and 2021 target to reduce incidence rates by 33%. plastic industries. 64 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 65 SOCIAL R E L AT I O N S H I P S ORGANISING SOCIAL DIALOGUE SUMMARY OF COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS The Group is committed to encouraging social dialogue in all All MANE employees in France are covered by the National Collective countries where it does business. Freedom of assembly and the Agreement for Chemical and related Industries dated 30 December right to collective bargaining are key principles in our Group Code 1952. In 2018, nine collective agreements were signed: of Ethics. We believe that social dialogue can play a productive part in negotiations, consultations or simply information exchange between the company and employee representatives to encourage cooperation to increase the positive social impact of the company. QQ Agreement on quality of life in the workplace, dated 9 March 2018 QQ Fifth amendment to the agreement establishing the Company Savings Scheme, dated 22 March 2018 QQ Agreement on the required yearly negotiation of Across the Group's sites in France, social dialogue occurs wages, working time and value sharing , dated 26 with the following employee representative bodies: March 2018 QQ Agreement on electronic voting, dated 8 June 2018 QQ Agreement supporting people with disabilities, QQ Employee representatives authorised to represent dated 12 June 2018 employees to the employer to manage individual requests; QQ Incentive agreement for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, dated 12 June 2018 QQ Works Council (WC) authorised to consult employees on the organisation and operation of the company as QQ Sixth amendment to the agreement establishing well as projects suggested by the employer; the Company Savings Scheme, dated 12 June 2018 QQ Occupational Health and Safety Committee (OHSC) QQ Agreement on the establishment of the Economic authorised to deal with issues relating to health, and Social Committee, community representatives safety, hygiene and working conditions. and OHSC, dated 29 June 2018 Q Q Pre-election agreement protocol, dated 6 September 2018 66 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 67 TRAINING TRAINING POLICY TOTAL TRAINING HOURS Given the highly competitive Environment in which it The Group spends an average of 1.8% of its payroll on training (and in France: 2.9% compared to finds itself, MANE believes that developing its workforce the 1% minimum legal requirement). 2018 was a special year for MANE with most training related is essential in order to strengthen the employability of its to the establishment of a new production management and planning system (more than 12,000 employees as well as its competitiveness and appeal as a hours of training related to the SAP project). We have also emphasised training for trainers. company. A successful company is one that knows how Training programmes covered, among others, the following topics: English language courses, to maintain and enrich its knowledge and expertise. movement and posture, managerial development of supervisory teams, ATPmetry (molecular biology technique), well-being, forklift handling, ISO 14001, etc. In order to identify the continuous needs of each of our employees and the expectations of the Group, procedures have been defined to: OUR RESULTS QQ Identify the knowledge our employees already have and the gaps between this and the knowledge required by their role; 2016 2017 2018 QQ Establish specifications for future training; QQ Assess the professional skills of our employees. TOTAL TRAINING HOURS 68 603 87 784 107 024 PER EMPLOYEE 15 17 20 2016 2018 EVOLUTION: +33% In-house training is also encouraged to support teaching human resource needs. The aim is to better anticipate and activities that use information specific to the the effects on employment of economic, technological, Our methodology: Recognised training includes internal and external training. company to address relevant issues. social and demographic changes. The strategic plan for employment and skills will offer employees the In France, we always offer all our new recruits regardless opportunity to acquire new skills and adapt to changes of their employment contract (intern, apprentice, temp, in job requirements and expectations, often due to Proportion of employees who permanent or fixed-term) induction training for at least changes and developments in the job market and have received training one day to introduce any key regulations that need to be strategic corporate decisions. followed for safety or quality, environmental, energy and 87 % 88 % occupational chemical risk management. 81 % The Human Resources Department at MANE France 61 % has also implemented a strategic plan for employment and skills in order to anticipate shortand medium-term 2013 2016 2017 2018 68 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 69 >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: YEARLY APPRAISALS OUR RESULTS: 2021 Objective: A yearly review of progress and targets allows Proportion of employees who had Increase to 80% the proportion of collaborators benefiting from training over the course of the year employees to review the year and discuss their an interview or assessment training needs with their line managers. This interview is a valuable discussion between managers 83 % 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2018 and their employees, an exchange which aims to 77 % 75 % 80 % see lasting improvement in professional practices, results and behaviour. 80% 88% 2009 2016 2017 2018 At Group level, the total average number of training hours is 20 hours per employee, an increase of 3 hours compared to 2017. 4,783 employees participated in at least one internal or external training course in 2018, representing 88% of the >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: total workforce and an increase of 1% compared to 2017. Therefore, we have already achieved and far exceeded our 2021 target. 2021 Objective: Increase to 80% the proportion of collaborators benefiting from an interview or assessment over the course It should be noted, however, that the percentage of employees who participated in training over the course of of the tear the year varies from one site to another. For example, in 2017, we reported that at DELI SPICES in South Africa and Rubí in Spain, the rates were 51% and 69% respectively, which is below our target of 80%. Lack of training may lead to the risk of obsolescence of knowledge, unsuitability for the position/role or even demotivation of employees. To rectify this, these two sites have therefore successfully taken action to increase the proportion of 2021 objective and exceeded in 2018 trained employees, which rose from 69% in 2017 to 93% in 2018 for DELI SPICES and from 69% to 78% for MANE Iberica in Rubí. 80% 83% In 2018, 83% of Group employees were interviewed or assessed during the year, an increase of 4% on the previous year. We have therefore already met and even exceeded our target set for the end of 2021, three years before the deadline. 70 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 71 E Q UA L T R E AT M E N T GENDER EQUALITY OUR RESULTS: The Group is careful to ensure men and women are treated equally. In 2017, the Board of Directors signed an While the latest Global Wage Report 2018/2019 by the International Labour Organization (ILO) reports a global agreement relating to equal opportunity and work-life balance with the following aims: gender pay gap of around 20%, the gender pay gap for wages in the Group is, on average, 7% in favour of men. QQ Take action to encourage gender equality in QQ Promote and encourage women's access to recruitment and to address any workplace management positions; bias by encouraging both gender and FOCUS ON FRANCE: disability diversity; QQ Pursue an equal pay policy. In France, the overall gender equality index score calculated by V. MANE FILS based on the following QQ Encourage a better work-life balance; five indicators: QQ Ensure both women and men can access professional training; QQ The gender pay gap; QQ The gap in the distribution of individual pay increases; QQ The gap in the distribution of promotions; QQ The number of employees who received a pay increase on their return from maternity leave; QQ The number of people of the under-represented sex among the 10 highest earners； is 91/100, a score of which we are proud and the tangible result of actions already taken over many years to promote gender equality. 72 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 73 EMPLOYMENT AND INTEGRATION OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES The Board of Directors of MANE France has committed to a policy to support people with disabilities through employment. One of the major aspects of this commitment is to implement actions necessary for integration by, where necessary, adapting workstations in the company in order to create conditions that enable people with disabilities to remain in employment. Our company is also committed, as far as possible, to commissioning services from ESATs (French organisations that help disabled people into work), examples of which include: maintenance of green spaces, bottling of perfume, removal, dismantling, processing and recycling of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), packing boxes, etc. Since the first agreement was signed in France in 2012, 86 workstations have been adapted while 13 flexible working time arrangements have been approved and 30 reserved parking spaces have On 12 June 2018, the management and employee representatives of V. been created near workstations. MANE FILS signed, for the third time, an agreement benefiting people with disabilities. The agreement has, once again, been approved by the In 2018, MANE again participated in the “Défi Sport Entreprises Handi-Valide 06” (Company Disability Regional Department of Business, Competition, Consumption, Labour Sports Challenge) project. This initiative grew out of the desire to hold an innovative event to mobilise and Employment (DIRECCTE). and bring together business stakeholders, from a variety of backgrounds, through a social sporting activity. Teams made up of company employees and residents in specialist institutions compete The key objectives of the 2018-2021 agreement are as follows: in sports events that encourage helping each other, solidarity and cohesion. The latest edition of this event was held on Saturday 13 October 2018 at Parc de la Valmasque in Mougins. MANE was present to celebrate it with two mixed teams that finished in first and fourth place. All the proceeds 1. Continue improving the employment rate of employees with of the event went to CDSA-06 (Alpes-Maritimes Regional Committee for Adapted Sport) to offer 19 disabilities and bring the employment rate up to 4%; projects and 200 activities throughout the year. The event involved 864 registered players and 1600 2. Strengthen our cooperation with companies in the sheltered mentally disabled and/or mentally ill participants and non-disabled people. employment sector by assigning duties to them; 3. Retain disabled employees; In 2018, during European Disability Week, MANE was involved in the Concours Vidéo Handicap Étudiant Tous HanScène® (Student Disability Video Contest). This national event brought together 4. Continue involvement with other sites outside Bar-sur-Loup; the biggest French companies, universities and graduate engineering, management and business 5. Explore the possibility of accommodating various types of schools to encourage the employment of disabled people in companies through a video made by disabilities, subject to adaptation to the skills needs and the students. Two teams of MANE apprentices and employees with disabilities were involved in this requirements of the company; competition. All employees were invited to watch videos featuring MANE employees on the issue 6. Promote solidarity within MANE for parents whose children are of disability. The team from ASFO Grasse, with the video “TECH’MANe”, won the Audience Award, severely disabled. given to the project with the most votes and stars. 74 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 75 ANTI-DISCRIMINATION POLICY INTERGENERATIONAL CONTRACT To formalise its commitment to fighting discrimination, the Human Resources Since 2013, MANE has been committed to the sustainable integration of young people Department of MANE France signed the Corporate Diversity Charter in 2008. and the transfer of knowledge between generations, with the aim of transferring Since its launch in 2004, this Charter has encouraged companies to guarantee the key skills required by the company. In September 2015, we received the 2015 the promotion of and respect for diversity among employees. In this way, MANE intergenerational contract award from the then French President François Hollande. undertakes to fight against any form of discrimination and to implement measures The MANE Group won in the category for companies with 300 or more employees. to promote diversity. The main elements that caught the attention of the judging panel were the clear voluntary commitments in the area of recruitment and retention, the pragmatic nature In accordance with this Charter, we undertake to: of initiatives particularly in terms of occupational risk prevention and the willingness to transfer the key skills required by the company. QQ Raise awareness among and train managers and employees involved in recruitment, In 2017, MANE renewed its collective agreement for France for a further 3 years. training and career management in issues of non-discrimination and diversity. The agreement includes measures promoting: QQ Respect and apply the principle of non-discrimination in any form and at all stages of human resource management, specifically recruitment, training, professional advancement or job promotions for employees. QQ Sustainable integration of young people into employment; QQ Attempt to reflect the diversity of French society and particularly its cultural and ethnic QQ Employment of experienced workers; diversity within the workforce, across all qualification levels. QQ Transfer of knowledge and skills. QQ Keep all our employees informed of our commitment to promote non-discrimination and diversity and ensure they are up to date on the practical results of this commitment. QQ Ensure the development and implementation of the diversity policy is a topic for debate V. MANE FILS set itself a target of awarding 40 permanent contracts under this with staff representatives. agreement. At the end of 2018, 98 young people under the age of 26 (or disabled QQ Include a chapter describing the company’s commitment to non-discrimination and young people under the age of 30) were recruited on permanent contracts, more diversity in the annual report: actions taken, practices and results. than double the number we expected. In 2017, MANE went even further by updating its Human Resources Policy to allow employees to inform the Ethics Committee of any failings in terms of diversity, discrimination or equality of opportunity. 76 SOCIAL INFORMATION SOCIAL INFORMATION 77 7. ENVIRONMENTAL At MANE, we believe reducing the environmental impact of our activities and protecting the communities INFORMATION in which we do business are integral parts of our company’s performance and social acceptability. 78 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 79 E N V I R O N M E N TA L POLICY MANE is working to reduce its environmental impact across all its sites, through the following specific actions: QQ Develop products and processes that are more QQ Prevent, reduce and recycle waste; respectful of the Environment and humankind; QQ Optimise consumption of water and raw materials; QQ Design and distribute environmentally friendly technologies; QQ Conserve and ensure the Sustainable and equitable use of biodiversity. QQ Improve energy efficiency and the use of renewable energies; QQ Prevent and reduce air emissions and effluents; 80 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 81 M A N AG E M E N T A P P R OAC H GREEN MOTION™ BY MANE ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION OUR RESULTS Research and Development (R&D) has always been at In 2013, we extended the methodology to fragrance In order to reduce the environmental footprint of Proportion of shipped tonnage the heart of MANE's innovation strategy. Currently, and flavour formulas using an internal software its business as far as possible, the Group is working from ISO 14001 certified sites the Group invests 8.3% of its yearly turnover in program that encourages and supports perfumers to implement an ISO 14001-certified Environmental R&D activities. MANE’s commitment to sustainable and flavourists to develop greener products. Management System (EMS) for its main production 59 % innovation involves designing environmentally friendly sites. Our target is to ensure that more than 90% of our products and chemical processes in order to reduce The tool is available at the following link: total product tonnage is shipped by ISO 14001-certified or eliminate the use of hazardous substances. https://greenmotion.mane.com/login following registration. sites by 2021. 47 % To achieve this, in 2011 MANE designed its own To receive the GREEN MOTION™ assessment results 34 % assessment tool, GREEN MOTION™, based on published in the Journal of Green Chemistry, send a the 12 principles of green chemistry introduced request to tony.phan@mane.com. by P. Anastas and J. Warner. The tool is based on a global and multi-criteria approach that calculates Study reference: T.V.T Phan, C. Gallardo, J.M. Mane, the overall impact of manufactured ingredients on Green Chem., 2015, 17, 2846-2852 2009 2017 2018 the Environment on a scale of 0 to 100. This simple yet relevant method uses a range of criteria grouped into seven basic concepts, such as E factor, atom economy, mass of chemical reactions, source of raw >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: materials, risks and toxicity of reagents, and type of solvents and manufactured products. 2021 Objective: Over 90% of shipped product tonnage from ISO 14001 certified sites 2018 2021 >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: 2021 Objective: Over 80% quantities of natural extracts and synthethic molecules produced with a GREEN MOTIONTM score 59% 90% of more than 50/100. 2018 2021 In 2018, MANE production sites located in Indonesia and Colombia obtained ISO 14001 certification, which increased the product tonnage shipped by certified sites by 12 percent compared to 2017. With four years 70% 80% until our target date of 2021, we are putting all our effort into achieving our 90% target. The next certifications, planned for 2019 and 2020, cover MANE’s activities in the United States (MANE Inc. sites) and Spain. 82 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 83 METHODS USED TO PREVENT ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS AND POLLUTION The budget allocated to preventing environmental hazards has been incorporated into the investment and operational expenses used to implement the Group's environmental policy. It is therefore detailed in the environmental management programmes that list significant environmental impacts, targets and associated methods. Investment and operational expenses for preventing environmental ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION TRAINING hazards and pollution are linked to the following priorities: MANE has invested in training programmes designed to incorporate environmental QQ Waste treatment and disposal; protection into all its activities. These training policies are an integral part of the environmental and energy management systems being implemented. QQ External certification of management systems; QQ Education and training on the Environment; For example, in France, all new employees participate in a two-day training session covering safety, environment, energy and occupational risk prevention, as soon as they QQ Decreasing water consumption (implementing closed systems, start working for the company. Employees are then encouraged to follow training modules automatic Cleaning In Place (CIP) systems, etc.); chosen according to their responsibilities and the risks linked to their roles, throughout QQ Ensuring continuous, effective operation of internal effluent their professional career. treatment systems (replacing membranes, preventive maintenance, repairs, etc.); Moreover, as regulatory pressure on environmental issues intensifies, especially in terms of nomenclature for registered environmental facilities (ICPE) and the Seveso 3 directive, the QQ Decreasing air emissions (installing or replacing VOC traps, vent Group has initiated training and information sharing activities for employees affected by condensers, smoothing filters, dust extractors, etc.); regulations on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures. QQ Improving understanding and monitoring of energy consumption (information tools, meters, energy diagnostics, installing detection/ Dedicated poster, communication and IT system campaigns are also being developed timer systems, etc.); internally in order to ensure employees are aware of efficient actions, labelling regulations, chemical hazards, policies, indicators etc. QQ Improving energy performance (renovating or replacing production equipment, refrigeration units, heating rooms, lighting, energy recovery, etc.); QQ Decreasing noise pollution (installing silencers on air extractors, soundproofing, etc.); QQ Ensuring industrial safety of sites (using specialised external companies, CCTV monitoring, fire detection systems, storage for certain agents next to sites, etc.). Studies and inspection services performed by independent organisations have also been funded to ensure sites comply with standards and regulations and to identify areas for improvement. In 2018, the Group spent over 11.3 million euros on investment and management expenses to protect the Environment. 84 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 85 PREVENTING POLLUTION VOC EMISSIONS ASSESSING THE RISK OF CHEMICAL EXPOSURE Controlling Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) emissions resulting from the use of organic solvents is a priority of the Group's environmental policy. MANE is focusing its efforts specifically on its manufacturing sites in France, MANE has developed a method for modelling the risk of employee chemical where VOC emissions are highest due to the synthesis and extraction activities performed there. We are taking exposure that is more relevant than the ECETOC (TRA) tool commonly action at several levels to reduce our VOC emissions effectively. used in the fragrance and flavour industry. The method proposed by MANE is a preventive tool that supports the decision-making process in order A STRUCTURED APPROACH REDUCTION AT SOURCE TREATING EMISSIONS to reduce the risk of dangerous exposure, install appropriate individual and/or collective protective equipment and provide targeted training for employees. This model can also help to design exposure control measures for the following areas: facility structure, work organisation, material storage, Our manufacturing sites in France Incorporating one or more of the Where substituting VOC emissions is individual respiratory protection, ventilation, packaging choices, process have set out a Solvent Management twelve principles of green chemistry technically or economically impossible, automation, etc. Plan to identify VOC emission when setting up a chemical process we are capturing and treating the sources and quantify the atmospheric or synthesis makes it possible to emissionstoreducethevariouspollutants Measurements taken at MANE have already led to specific and positive output in order to find solutions for reduce VOC emissions at their contained within. Our processes include changes in the workshops. One example is the use of smaller containers in improvement tailored to the emission source. For example, supercritical biofilters, gas scrubbers, condensers and order to minimise volatilisation during transfer operations, as well as reducing sources involved. CO2 is an alternative to organic cold traps. handling for the most hazardous substances at the end of the weighing and solvents. This is a clean technology mixing stages. which can be used for extractions without the need for organic solvents This assessment tool was discussed in the PLOS ONE journal. and without generating effluent. Study reference: Angelini E, Camerini G, Diop M, Roche P, Rodi T, Schippa C, et al. (2016) Respiratory Health – Exposure Measurements and Modelling in the Fragrance and Flavour Industry. PloS One, 11(2): e84138. QQ OUR RESULTS: http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0148769. The two sites in Bar-sur-Loup are subject to local authority decrees fixing their annual emissions targets at 8% of the quantity of solvents used during the year for the Notre-Dame site, and 5% and 10% for new and old facilities respectively at the La Sarrée site. In 2018, we were significantly below these regulatory limits with an average of 4.5% at Notre-Dame and 4.4% at La Sarrée. 86 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 87 EFFLUENT Industrial effluents generated by activity at our The Group has two objectives with regard to manufacturing sites may contain pollutants. For this effluent management: reason, all our effluents are routinely treated or pretreated before being released into local sewage QQ Improving purification yields for our treatment plants; systems or the environment, in accordance with current regulatory requirements. Each site is responsible for QQ Reducing as much as possible the volume and defining its own effluent management programme pollutant load of released effluent. depending on its activity levels, materials produced and products used. In Bar-sur-Loup, effluent from our production sites at Notre-Dame and La Sarrée is released into the Environment following purification at our internal waste water treatment plant. This is the Group’s only site that releases its purified effluents into the environment. To this end, we have put in place a system to monitor and control the quality of the effluent before it is released. Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) is the main indicator of effluent quality. OUR RESULTS Quality of effluents discharged by the two MANE sites in Bar-sur-Loup after internal freatment (in kg of COD per tonne) 2,6 1,0 0,9 0,7 2009 2016 2017 2018 Over the last few years, we have invested significantly oils. In 2018, the pollution reduction rate was 98.8% to improve the purification yield of our wastewater for COD, 99.4% for Biochemical Oxygen Demand treatment plant at Bar-sur-Loup. As a result, we (BOD5) and 99.8% for Suspended Matter (SM). We reduced the pollutant load of our effluent by 71% have therefore increased pollution reduction rates between 2009 and 2018. This result also reflects for COD and BOD5 by 0.2% compared to 2017. strict ongoing upstream checks on our releases, particularly around our encapsulation plants, with, for example, better separation and recovery of edible 88 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 89 Elsewhere, our sites in Indonesia (Cibitung) and In France, vegetable waste from extraction activities and sludge India (Byadgi) have also built on-site wastewater from the wastewater treatment plant are sent to an external treatment plants to treat their effluent before it partner to be converted into compost. All our paper and is released into local sewage systems. The plant cardboard waste is sorted and recycled as are our metal drums in Byadgi can even be used to treat effluent to a and non-soiled plastic packaging. As long as they are in good level of quality acceptable for the internal reuse condition, our wood pallets are reused before being recycled. of treated water, leading to water savings. In India, after a number of internal treatments, water is In Mexico, improvements in waste sorting in recent years led to reused on site for gardening and plantations. an increase in the proportion of waste recovered from 63% to 98% between 2009 and 2018. In 2018, at Group level, 476,500 m3 of effluent was released either into the Environment after internal In the United States, our manufacturing site in Lebanon, Ohio, treatment (for the two sites in Bar-sur-Loup) or into increased its waste recovery rate from 45% to 66% between 2016 local sewage systems. The quality of these releases is and 2018 by directing part of its waste to a local incineration plant estimated at 7.1 kg of COD per tonne of product. with energy recovery. MANE has also set up a centralised Intranet site so that all used industrial and laboratory equipment that is still in good condition and not being used, can be made available to technical departments, R&D and production teams from across the Group. In this way, the equipment can be reused internally, wherever it is needed, giving the used equipment a second life. WASTE REDUCTION AT SOURCE The Group generates various types of waste while Our Indian manufacturing sites (Angamaly and manufacturing its products: paste-like residue, organic Byadgi) extract spices and condiments. The resulting OUR RESULTS waste, sludge from the internal treatment of effluent, plant waste is locally treated and thermally recovered used edible oils, packaging waste (paper, cardboard, before being used as fuel for on-site boilers. WASTE 2009 2016 2017 2018 metal, plastic), glass, solvents, etc. With help from our suppliers in Indonesia, we have IN TONNES The Group's waste management policy aims to: changed the packaging and delivery methods for HAZARDOUS WASTE (HW) 2 228 3 986 4 059 4 314 some large volume products to reduce the quantity NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (NHW) 3 477 12 565 14 909 16 632 QQ Reduce the volume of hazardous waste generated; of metal waste (for example, by asking for deliveries QQ Recover an increasing proportion of generated in 20-tonne ISO tank containers rather than 200-litre TOTAL 5 705 16 550 18 968 20 946 waste; metal drums). IN KG PER TONNE OF PRODUCT (HW) 71 57 51 50 QQ Ensure employees are aware of selective waste sorting. 2009 2018 EVOLUTION: -29 % 90 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 91 Hazardous waste Proportion of waste recovered (in kg / t) (hazardous and non-hazardous) 80 % 83% 79 % 71 69 % 57 51 50 2009 2016 2017 2018 2009 2016 2017 2018 >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: 2021 Objective: 2021 Objective: Reduce by 33% the quantity of hazardous waste per tonne of product compared to 2009 Over 80% of waste (hazardous and non-hazardous) recovered* 2018 2021 2018 2021 -29% -33% *recycled and incinerated with energy recovert 79% 80% Our 2021 target is to reduce hazardous waste produced per tonne of product by 33% compared to 2009. In 2018, The Group generated 20,946 tonnes of waste in 2018. The 2021 target is to recycle over 80% of waste. we achieved a 29% reduction. We are therefore on track to achieving our current target over the next three years. In 2018, we achieved a 79% recovery rate, an increase of 10% compared to 2009. WASTE TREATMENT ACTION TO FIGHT AGAINST FOOD WASTE OUR RESULTS Although it does not involve our primary industries, several measures have been implemented at the staff canteen in Bar-sur-Loup. Examples include offering “standard” plates with average portions to limit the amount 2017 2018 of food that is not eaten and wasted; using a computer tool to calculate the daily take-up rate; re-offering meals WASTE BY TREATMENT METHOD that are not been eaten the first time, subject to compliance with health and safety requirements(this amount is RECYCLED WASTE 8 519 9 230 then deducted from the number of meals calculated for the next day); implementing partial self-service, allowing INCINERATED WASTE WITH ENERGY RECOVERY 7 205 7 374 each employee to create their own meal by choosing what they want (for salads and fruit); automatic refiltering of frying oil in the kitchens after each use, thus reducing consumption; sorting and promoting foods with short INCINERATED WASTE WITHOUT ENERGY RECOVERY 457 475 use-by dates (cheese, for example) to encourage consumption of these products and reduce waste. LANDFILLED WASTE 2 340 2 315 OTHER 442 1 540 TOTAL 18 968 20 946 92 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 93 ODOUR POLLUTION NOISE POLLUTION MANE manufactures aromatic The Quéven site in France mainly The problem of odour pollution MANE activities do not lead to any significant noise products that can occasionally manufactures savoury flavours. can also be linked to our internal pollution. Nevertheless, certain activities can be the result in odour pollution for its Several years ago, in response wastewater treatment plants. At source of noise pollution, particularly for employees local residents. Sometimes, when to complaints from its local Bar-sur-Loup, for example, we working close to our industrial machinery. This manufacturing flavours using garlic, residents, it carried out an odour store treatment sludge for as problem has therefore been taken into account blackcurrant or durian (a tropical dispersion study to improve its short a time as possible as this can in the context of stress at work. MANE works to South-East Asian fruit known for its assessment of odour pollution. occasionally generate unpleasant identify the workstations and employees affected peculiar smell), strong odours can This targeted study helped us to odours. We have also installed an by noise exposure and implements appropriate be produced that, if conditions are focus our actions appropriately activated charcoal trap system preventive and protective measures, including not appropriate, can be detected to reduce the odour impact of to treat emissions from the belt personal protective equipment, installing silencers by local residents. Some chemical the site's activities. For example, press filter and the thickener. on air extractors, installing systems to absorb the synthesis activities can also a new treatment system for noise of hammering on the ceilings of maintenance produce noticeable odours for local the drying unit was installed. At our new manufacturing site workshops, implementing noise protection around residents. MANE has therefore Additionally, the site improved in Indonesia (Cibitung), odour cooling towers, adding timers to air extractors so implemented a range of measures its treatment of waste gasses emissions from the production unit they do not run overnight when possible, improving to limit the olfactory impact of using a spray tower (air scrubber) are processed using a biofilter in the fittings for rain water gratings, etc. its activities. These include using by implementing an innovative which the filter material is made up of bleach and/or caustic soda traps process that destroys molecules compost, peat and wood bark. This We also measure noise levels on the edge of the that can capture certain smells. As a before the air is released without facility is the largest biofilter used by property from time to time to control any noise last resort, certain by-products are the use of chemicals. the Group and can treat all extracted pollution that local residents may experience. At treated in specialised centres. air from weighing stations in the each of its sites, the Group is committed to dealing fragrance and flavour production unit promptly with any complaints that may be made by its to reduce odour pollution. immediate neighbours. GROUND POLLUTION Each of MANE's sites have implemented automatic retention methods and tailored maintenance programmes to ensure its effluent collection networks remain sealed and to collect any accidental spills in areas where potentially hazardous products are stored or handled, in order to avoid any ground contamination. Spillage simulation exercises are organised throughout the year to ensure employees are adequately trained in case a major accident should occur and to highlight Developments and adaptations that need to be made to safety plans to reinforce their validity. 94 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 95 S U S TA I N A B L E U S E O F RESOURCES WATER WATER CONSUMPTION OUR RESULTS Water consumption 2009 2016 2017 2018 Water is a vital component of MANE's processes Water consumption (in m3 / t) and is used in several production phases. We use it IN M3 329 068 694 152 764 255 730 605 for natural raw material extraction processes (steam 10,5 9,9 distillation and hydrodistillation), but it is also crucial to 9,6 8,5 IN M3 PER TONNE OF PRODUCT 10,5 9,9 9,6 8,5 the operation and cleaning of production tools in order to comply with strict hygiene standards in the area of food safety in the manufacturing of flavours. 2009 2018 EVOLUTION: -19 % Water management is a key issue for MANE's manufacturing sites with a lot of effort undertaken each year to reduce and optimise their water consumption. Our target for 2021 is to reduce water >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: consumption per tonne of product by 15% compared 2009 2016 2017 2018 2021 Objective: to 2009. To achieve this, our activities have been Reduce by 15% water comsumption per tonne of product compared to 2009 focused on the following measures: 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2018 -15% -19% QQ Implementing specific measures and awareness-raising among staff to reduce water consumption In 2018, 730,605 m3 of water was consumed across This overall performance is mainly due to significant (restraint, recycling, closed circuits, automatic Clean-in-Place (CIP) systems, etc.); all of the Group’s manufacturing sites, which is a 5% reductions at three MANE Inc. sites in the United reduction in absolute terms compared to 2017, while States (Woodlawn, Milford and Lebanon, which QQ Monitoring the consumption of equipment with remote meter reading to detect leaks and over the same period, we increased our total shipped represent 31% of the Group’s consumption in absolute abnormalities in real time; product tonnage by 8%. This represents a saving of terms), the MANE Notre-Dame and La Sarrée sites QQ Improving the effectiveness of effluent treatment, so that treated water can be reused internally. more than 1 m3 per tonne of product. This significant in France (30%) and the KANCOR-MANE Angamaly, reduction means we have already met our 2021 target. Byadgi and Bareilly sites in India (14%). These sites decreased their water consumption per tonne of product by 18%, 10% and 28% respectively between 2017 and 2018. 96 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 97 WATER SUPPLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH LOCAL CONSTRAINTS All our manufacturing sites get their water supply from local municipal networks. None of our sites ENERGY take water directly from the natural environment. In order to take local water supply constraints into ENERGY CONSUMPTION account, MANE undertakes and updates yearly water risk mapping to assess the water stress level of its reservoirs. To do this, we use the Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas tool from the World Resources Institute (WRI) which publishes a global water stress index (consumption vs. resource) for around one hundred MANE’s industrial activities use energy in different river basins located in over 180 countries. The index ranges from 0 to 5 (with 5 being the highest level forms: natural gas (46% of total consumption), electricity of risk). (44%), energy produced internally from recycling plant waste (8%) and domestic heating oil (2%). Natural gas is One of our production sites in India is located in an area with extremely high water stress (category 5). used mainly for steam boilers that help with the heating This is the KANCOR-MANE sire in Bareilly which consumed 8,428 m3 of water in 2018, representing 1% and flow of reactors and fractionating columns, and for of the Group’s total water consumption. We therefore do not believe this consumption has a significant the burners of the spray towers. impact on water resources in this river basin. However, we should point out that in 2018, this site reduced its water consumption in absolute terms by 26%. Due to their energy intensive extraction and encapsulation activities, MANE’s manufacturing Six production sites, which represent 17% of the Group’s total consumption, are located in high water sites in Bar-sur-Loup account for 36% of the Group's stress areas (category 4): MANE Indonesia (Cibitung and Cikarang: 69,591 m3 consumed in 2018); total energy consumption in absolute terms, despite KANCOR-MANE in India (Byadgi: 23,752 m3); MANE China (Shanghai: 18,261 m3); DELI SPICES in accounting for only 19% of shipped tonnage. We have South Africa (Cape Town: 5,583 m3); and MANE India (Hyderabad: 4,185 m3 As mentioned above, the therefore naturally focused our energy management KANCOR-MANE site in Byadgi has its own water treatment plant, allowing it to treat its effluent to efforts on Bar-sur-Loup. To this end, we have a level of quality acceptable for the internal reuse of treated water. This new facility (dating back to implemented an energy management system, ISO 2016) helps to reduce consumption of drinking water from the local distribution network. In Hyderabad, 50001-certified in 2015, at both Bar-sur-Loup and India, after a number of internal treatments, water is reused on site for gardening and plantations. In Quéven. Our energy management process is based on Indonesia, several measures have been taken recently, such as installing a system to allow internal reuse the following measures: of treated effluent (end of May 2018), and reducing water flow in some facilities. QQ Develop a policy for more efficient energy use; RAW MATERIALS QQ Perform energy reviews to better understand The raw materials consumed by the Group are generally naturally sourced (essential oils, flowers, fruits, energy use and consumption and to make rubber and resin, cocoa, vanilla, sugar, seafood, etc.) or chemical synthesis products, including solvents relevant decisions; primarily used to synthesise active products. QQ Monitor energy consumption closely and continuously. In 2018, the MANE Group consumed over 102,600 OUR RESULTS tonnes of raw materials, representing an increase Consumption of of only 1% in absolute terms compared to 2017. raw materials 2017 2018 We also improved efficiency in their use by 7% between 2017 and 2018. IN TONNES 101 945 102 633 IN TONNES PER TONNE OF PRODUCT 1,28 1,20 98 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 99 The KANCOR-MANE plant in Angamaly is also ISO 50001-certified. It represents 7% of the Group's total energy consumption. C L I M AT E Elsewhere, yearly investments are made at our manufacturing sites to acquire more energy efficient equipment (replacing refrigerated units with newer models, lighting, automating heating systems, installing insulation CHANGE blankets at critical points along the thermal fluid network, etc.), and to revamp our manufacturing equipment to decrease consumption. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS OUR RESULTS: ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2009 2016 2017 2018 Aware of the challenges linked to climate change and of its responsibility as a manufacturing company, MANE is working to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). To reinforce its actions in the fight against climate IN GIGAJOULES (GJ) change, MANE is involved in two major global initiatives: NATURAL GAS 196 989 298 765 321 329 327 341 ELECTRICITY 135 371 262 589 307 086 318 804 QQ Caring for Climate : Launched in 2007, Caring for Climate was jointly convened by the United Nations Global SELF-GENERATED ENERGY 0 62 687 58 579 55 783 Compact, the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Secretariat of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) with the aim of promoting the role of companies in DOMESTIC HEATING OIL 10 708 17 677 13 209 13 059 the fight against climate change. Chief executives who sign up to Caring for Climate commit to setting targets TOTAL 343 068 641 717 700 202 714 986 to reduce their GHG, develop strategies and practices, work with other companies and governments, publish a report on their performance with regard to climate change and disclose their emissions each year. MANE IN GJ PER TONNE OF PRODUCT 11,0 9,1 8,8 8,3 has taken part in the initiative since it was launched in 2007. QQ Paris Pledge for Action : In 2015, the Group went further in its commitment by signing the Paris Pledge 2009 2018 EVOLUTION: -24 % * Note: Consumption of natural gas and electricity in 2017 was revised upwards compared to information published last year, due to corrections for Action. By signing the Pledge, MANE is committed to ensuring that the target level set out by the Paris made to electricity consumption at MANE in Indonesia and natural gas Agreement on climate change is met or exceeded in order to limit the rise in temperature to less than 2° consumption at MANE Inc. in the United States. Celsius by the end of the 21st century. To demonstrate its commitment, the Group has set itself a target to reduce its CO2 emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) Energy consumption (in GJ/t) by 15% per tonne of product by 2021 compared to 2009. To achieve this, we are focusing on improving energy 11 >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: efficiency and researching alternatives to fossil fuels for our manufacturing sites. 9,1 8,8 8,3 2021 Objective: Reduce by 20% energy consumption per tonne of product compared to 2009 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2018 -20% -24% 2009 2016 2017 2018 The reduction measures we have implemented over several years have helped to significantly improve the energy efficiency of our manufacturing sites. In 2018, the Group reduced its total energy consumption by 24% (in GJ/tonne of product) compared to 2009, which represents a saving of 2.7 GJ per tonne of product. We have therefore already exceeded our target of a 20% reduction by 2021. 100 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 101 OUR RESULTS 2018. But this good performance is not enough for new plants in Lebanon in the United States in 2010, Greenhouse gas emissions the Group to meet its overall reduction target. and Cibitung in Indonesia in 2016), but electricity 2009 2016 2017 2018 (Scopes 1 and 2) Indeed, MANE production sites in the state of Ohio emission factors are also much higher there than in the United States and Indonesia are responsible in France (around 10 times higher, since production IN TONNES OF CO2 EQUIVALENT 20 681 47 658 55 490 56 337 for over half of the Group’s GHG (32% and 21% of comes predominantly from fossil fuels). IN TONNES OF CO2 EQUIVALENT emissions in absolute terms respectively). In fact, in PER TONNE OF PRODUCT 0,660 0,679 0,699 0,657 these two countries, not only have MANE’s activities grown with the installation of new and less energy 2009 2018 EVOLUTION: -0,5 % efficient manufacturing processes (construction of Our methodology: The emission factors used to estimate CO2 emissions relating to electricity consumption and refrigerant leakage are taken from: (1) For electricity: the BaseCarbone® database of the ADEME (French Environment and Energy Management Agency) (2) For natural gas: the Base Carbone® database of the ADEME for France, the website of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for the United States and the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories for other countries. (3) For domestic heating oil: the Base Carbone® of the ADEME for France and the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories for other countries. (4) For refrigerants: the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC CO2 emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) (in tCO2e / t) 0,679 0,699 0,657 0,660 * Note: The 2017 figure has been revised upwards (from 0.66-0.70 tCO2e/t) compared to information published last year, as a result of the inclusion of Scope 1 and 2 emissions relating to the use of supercritical CO2 in our processes and corrections made to energy consumption at MANE in Indonesia and MANE Inc. in the United States. 2009 2016 2017 2018 As seen previously, from the point of view of our compared to 2017, but this represents only a 1% energy consumption, we have improved the energy reduction on 2009. It should be noted that in this efficiency of our manufacturing sites by 24%. area, the performance of different production sites However, MANE has seen no significant reduction varies significantly. Thus, the two MANE plants in in its GHG. In 2018, the Group emitted 0.657 tonnes Bar-sur-Loup reduced their Scope 1 and 2 GHG of CO2 equivalent per tonne of product, a 6% drop by 35% (per tonne of product) between 2009 and 102 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 103 RENEWABLE ENERGY Proportion of energy consumption In addition to our actions to reduce emissions at source, we have also chosen to use energy from from renewable sources renewable sources at our main production sites. 14,5 % 14,2 % 13,8 % >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: 2021 Objective : Over 10% total energy consumption from renewable sources 3% 2021 objective achieved and exceeded in 2018 2009 2016 2017 2018 GREEN ELECTRICITY SELF-GENERATION OF ENERGY LEED® CERTIFIED BUILDING 10% 14% In recent years, MANE has signed Our KANCOR-MANE plants in In April 2018, MANE was awarded several supply contracts for Angamaly and Byadgi recover the LEED® Gold certification, in In 2018, 14% of the Group's total energy consumption was from renewable sources, which represents an 11% electricity from fully renewable plant waste produced by their recognition of the Sustainable increase on 2009 and 4% above our 2021 target. sources (with Guarantee of Origin extraction processes thermally, construction of its new Reception certificates). At the end of 2018, allowing them to self-generate 82% Facility in La Sarrée, Bar-surthese contracts covered 35% of and 69% respectively of the energy Loup, with a score of 62/110. The MANE HAS SET NEW TARGETS FOR 2025: total electricity consumption at the used in Angamaly and Byadgi. LEED® (Leadership in Energy and two MANE sites in Bar-sur-Loup Environmental Design) assessment As part of its commitment to the Paris Pledge for Action, the Group has set new targets for 2025 to bring it into (Notre-Dame and La Sarrée), 21% of system promotes the design and line with the target set out in the Paris Agreement. electricity consumption at MANE construction of Environmentally In June 2018, members of the Group’s CSR Committee adopted the following targets: in Quéven and Sable-sur-Sarthe, friendly buildings through an 25% in Milford and Woodlawn (for overall approach to Sustainable Development. Six categories are QQ Reduce CO2 emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) per tonne of product by 40% by 2025 compared to 2017 MANE Inc.) and 18% in Wayne (for MANE USA), representing over up for assessment. By adding QQ Reduce CO2 emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) in absolute terms by 18% by 2025 compared to 2017 42,700 MWh of electricity from up the points acquired in each renewable sources. category, the following 4 levels QQ Reduce CO2 emissions (Scope 3) in absolute terms by 20% by 2025 compared to 2017 of certification are possible: Certified (40-49 points), Silver QQ Increase the proportion of renewable energy to 33% of total energy by 2025 (50-59 points), Gold (60-79 points) and Platinum (80 and over). Now we need to have these new targets approved by the Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative to ensure they are in line with the data on climate science and therefore in line with the target set out in the Paris Agreement. 104 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 105 VOLUNTARY OFFSETTING At the same time, the MANE Group has also chosen to invest in carbon offsetting projects to speed up the dissemination of low-carbon technologies. HYDROELECTRIC POWER PLANT PROJECT IN MADAGASCAR In 2018, the Group committed to contributing financially to a hydroelectric power plant project in Madagascar. MANE approached the company Tozzi Green (via the Aera Group), from which it purchased 230,000 carbon credits over 3 years: 30,000 tCO2 in 2019, 90,000 tCO2 in 2020 and 110,000 tCO2 in 2021 (one carbon credit corresponds to 1 tonne of CO2 equivalent avoided by the project). Tozzi Green purchased two ADAPTING TO THE CONSEQUENCES hydroelectric power plants (Sahnivotry – 15 MW and Maroansetra – 2.4 MW), which it designed, modernised and improved. These facilities produce energy to meet local energy demand. OF CLIMATE CHANGE REFORESTATION PROJECT IN MADAGASCAR BANCO2 PROGRAMME IN COLOMBIA The Group has not identified any immediate or significant risks to its activities due to climate In 2018, MANE also invested in the implementation Since 2015, MANE’s site in Colombia has change. Nevertheless, we are aware of the risks of a reforestation project in the new protected area supported the BanCO2 programme to offset linked to the impact of climate change on our ability of Loky Manambato located in the north-east of its indirect Scope 3 GHG (emissions linked to source natural raw materials. In the first instance, Madagascar, in an area that was cleared of trees 10 to the purchasing of raw materials, transport climate change may have an agricultural impact on years ago. The project has three key aims: of employees, and the use and end of life of these raw materials. Changes in yield due to climate products). The BanCO2 programme is the irregularities will also impact the prices at which result of an initiative of the MásBosques we can buy these materials. Additionally, extreme QQ Reforest 213.8 hectares with exotic and indigenous weather events such as cyclones, floods and storms association, approved by the United Nations species and expand forest conservation activities also present a risk for our supply chains. For all these Development Programme (UNDP). The that have already been implemented in this area; reasons, MANE is working to implement recovery BanCO2 offsetting system ensures forest QQ Restore the mangroves in order to protect conservation through financial compensation plans for sourcing its most vulnerable and strategic marine biodiversity and protect fishing activities; paid to rural families and communities in raw materials. exchange for the conservation and protection QQ Support the development of productive agriculture of forest ecosystems located on their farms by planting fruit, acacia and eucalyptus trees in instead of using them as a source of income. order to diversify the income of local communities by practising subsistence farming. In 2018, for the fourth year running, MANE Colombia has offset its Scope 3 carbon footprint Plantation operations began at the end of 2018. It (460 tonnes of CO2). Resources from this is therefore still too early to account for the carbon offsetting are allocated to two families in the sequestration linked to the project. The aim of this town of Guarne, who protect and care for the project is to generate 31,296 carbon credits by 2020, ecosystems found on their land, thereby ensuring 20% of which will be allocated to MANE, calculated the conservation of a total of 8 hectares of forest. on a pro rata basis in proportion to its financial contribution to the project. 106 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 107 P R OT E C T I N G BIODIVERSITY MANE IS A SIGNATORY TO THE REGULATION ON ABS BUSINESS AND BIODIVERSITY PLEDGE” During the Business and Biodiversity Forum As part of its natural raw material purchasing In this context, several countries that have ratified the held by the United Nation's Convention on activities, the MANE Group may need to purchase Nagoya Protocol have adopted national regulations Biological Diversity (COP13-CBD) that took place ingredients subject to the regulation on access implementing the Protocol. In France, for example, in December 2016 in Cancun (Mexico), MANE and benefit-sharing (ABS). The regulation on ABS it was transposed into law with the adoption of LAW signed the Business and Biodiversity Pledge. organises relationships between suppliers and users no. 2016-1087 of 8 August 2016 for the restoration This pledge provides an opportunity for business of genetic resources and associated traditional of biodiversity, nature and landscapes. But it is leaders to highlight the importance of biodiversity knowledge. It thereby offers greater legal certainty important to note that other countries, that have not and ecosystem services for their respective to each stakeholder. Its main aims are to fight ratified the Nagoya Protocol, have also adopted their companies and to affirm their commitment to biopiracy (collection and use of biological materials own regulations relating to ABS, such as Brazil with taking positive measures to support it. Signing for commercial, industrial, scientific or personal use Law 13.123 of 20 May 2015. the pledge indicates a commitment to providing without obtaining the necessary permits), to ensure solutions for the conservation of biodiversity, its the conservation of biodiversity and local knowledge In this context, MANE continuously monitors sustainable use and the fair and equitable sharing and to guarantee Sustainable use, while ensuring developments in national laws on ABS with the crossof benefits arising from the use of resources. equal sharing of the economic advantages. disciplinary involvement of all affected departments (R&D, Environment/CSR, Purchasing, Regulatory Adopted in October 2010, the Nagoya Protocol on Affairs, Sales, etc.). To that end, background work has access and benefit-sharing (ABS) entered into force been carried out in order to trace and incorporate on 12 October 2014. It provides a transparent legal in IT systems the geographical origins of natural framework for the effective implementation of one of raw materials purchased. In addition, the Group the three aims of the Agreement on biodiversity: the has set up an internal organisation to ensure that, fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from throughout the product development process, its the use of genetic resources. activities comply with laws on ABS according to the geographical origin of natural raw materials. 108 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 109 MANE’S COMMITMENTS As part of our programme of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), in 2009 we set up a responsible purchasing policy in order to raise awareness of CSR among our suppliers and to support them in assessing and improving their CSR performance. In this context, MANE is working closely with its palm oil and palm oil derivative suppliers to ensure a gradual transition towards certified Sustainable product sourcing in accordance with RSPO criteria. To achieve this goal, we have set the following targets: OUR SUSTAINABLE PALM OIL PURCHASING POLICY For all compositions used in perfumery, cosmetics PALM OIL AT MANE and food flavourings Palm oil is a product of the oil palm. It is the most widely produced, consumed At MANE, we use very little palm oil in our products QQ MANE commits to sourcing only palm oil products and sold vegetable oil on the planet. Between 1994 and 2014, palm oil production (less than 350 tonnes per year). This represents and derivatives from RSPO member suppliers by the quadrupled, reaching 65 million tonnes. Production is concentrated in Indonesia less than 0.001% of world production. The Group end of 2018. and Malaysia, which produce 85% of the world’s palm oil. By 2030, the Food and primarily buys palm oil derivatives (from the fruit) QQ MANE commits to ensuring that all palm oil used Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) estimates that total production or palm kernel oil (from the kernel) such as medium directly in its products will be RSPO-certified using will be double what it was in 2000. chain triglycerides (MCT), glycerine, and certain the Mass Balance traceability model, as a minimum fatty acids. requirement, by 2019. The growth of oil palm plantations is one of the main contributing factors to deforestation in Indonesia and Malaysia, threatening natural species and habitats, Although MANE’s consumption of palm oil remains QQ MANE commits to ensuring that all palm oil products destroying peat bogs and contributing to global warming. The increase in palm oil very small compared to the world market, we and derivatives used directly in its products will be consumption is also threatening natural tropical forests in Papua New Guinea, Africa believe the Group can play a role in promoting the RSPO-certified using the Mass Balance traceability and South America. production of Sustainable palm oil. model, as a minimum requirement, by 2021. In this context, it is important that the use of palm oil complies with certain environmental guarantees. One solution is the use of palm oil certified from Sustainable sources according to the principles and criteria of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). RSPO certification means that palm oil has been produced, processed and used in products that meet RSPO sustainability criteria and that the products are traceable throughout the supply chain. 110 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 111 8. SOCIETAL At MANE, we believe growth is only sustainable if it is shared. Contributing to the local development INFORMATION of the areas in which the Group operates is a responsibility MANE takes very seriously. 112 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 113 SOCIETAL COMMITMENTS SUPPORTING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REGIONAL, ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL IMPACT OF OUR ACTIVITIES MANE not only contributes to the Sustainable Socioeconomic Development of the regions in which it operates through direct and indirect job creation and skills development (recruitment and training of local employees, knowledge transfer, purchasing local goods and services, revitalising local manufacturing networks) but also through the social investment decisions it makes (e.g. developing infrastructure, improving access to healthcare, drinking water and appropriate sanitary facilities). We aim to: ensure that our activities and our social commitment create value for the communities with whom we are involved. PARTNERSHIP AND SPONSORSHIP ACTIVITIES In addition to its social responsibility linked directly to its manufacturing activities, MANE's involvement in local regional development includes support for general interest initiatives. Here are some examples: 114 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 115 INDONESIA SUPPORT FOR THE NGO YAYASAN EMMANUEL For over 10 years, MANE Indonesia has supported the Outreach programme run by the NGO Yayasan Emmanuel, which provides sponsorship and study grants. To date, 250 children have been sponsored by MANE. Not only do we pay their school fees, we also provide social support to help the children succeed and make the most of their studies. We have, for example, organised factory visits for some of the children to introduce them to the world of work and broaden their horizons to include new employment opportunities. We have also helped some of the children go on to complete university degrees. PARTICIPATION IN GREEN SCHOOL ACTIVITIES AT PASIR GOMBONG PRIMARY SCHOOL Some will be offered jobs with us. In October and November 2018, MANE employees from the Quality Department and the Health, In September 2018, for the second year running, several MANE Indonesia Safety and Environment Department presented the concept of the 5 Rs (Refuse, Reduce, Reuse, employees participated in the Run to Give event, an annual 5K charity Repurpose, Recycle) to pupils at Pasir Gombong primary school during “Green School” days. Six pupils run in Jakarta. Our employees ran on behalf of Yayasan Emmanuel's Food were chosen to become “green ambassadors” to encourage their friends to put the 5 Rs concept into Rescue programme. This programme aims to recover uneaten meals from practice in their daily lives. around forty 4 and 5-star hotels in Jakarta to redistribute this food to undernourished people in local communities. Since it was founded in August Other activities included a contest to paint plastic containers (donated by PTMI) to reuse them 2003, this programme has collected 401 tonnes of food and provided meals as flowerpots or bins, an environmentally-themed contest, and a seed-planting contest. A MANE to more than 1.4 million people in 352,650 families. employee from the Aroma Marketing Department took part in the painting contest, sharing her artistic skills with the primary school pupils. This series of activities ended with a symbolic tree-transferring ceremony from MANE Indonesia management to the school’s head and teachers. WOMEN’S WORKSHOP IN THE PASIR GOMBONG REGION MOTIVATIONAL SPEAKER AT SMK AL-AMIN CIBARUSAH SCHOOL IN CIKARANG The MANE Indonesia site is located on the Cikarang industrial estate in the Pasir Gombong region. Women in the region were invited to learn how to In October 2018, MANE Indonesia’s Manufacturing Director talked about his life and experiences in make a natural cleaning fluid, a natural disinfectant, and natural fertiliser and front of 80 secondary school students to motivate this younger generation to fulfil their life goals and pesticides using fruit and vegetable compost. This knowledge-sharing workshop dreams. He was born and raised in Cikarang, Indonesia where one of MANE’s sites is located. Not was offered by a MANE employee from the Perfume Marketing Department. only did he share his own life experiences, but he also told stories about other influential people in the world. Through the theme “your choices define your future”, the Manufacturing Director called on students to always think positively, have self-confidence, and to nurture a strong mind and resolve. Students responded with enthusiasm, and the event ended with a Q&A session. 116 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 117 BRAZIL COLOMBIA Each year, MANE Colombia donates money received Since 2016, MANE Do Brasil and the Brazilian NGO from the sale of recycled waste and packaging to Onda Verde have participated in a forestry project several foundations that support education and food aimed at restoring areas degraded by agricultural for disadvantaged children. activities by planting trees indigenous to Nova Iguaçu on the banks of the Ana Felicia river. As part of this partnership, MANE will financially support the planting of seedlings, including maintenance, for at least 3 years. CHINA FRANCE Since 2013, MANE Shanghai has supported The Children of Madaifu association. This association looks after MANE makes yearly donations to several organisations. For example, in 2018, it donated to: children from poor families in the impoverished Chinese provinces of Gansu and Shaanxi whose parents have disappeared or passed away. As part of a 5-year commitment, MANE provides The Children of Madaifu with • the association for the reach of the International PERFUME Museum in Grasse, which helps improve the the financial support needed to fund living expenses and tuition for 15 students until they enter the job market. museum’s facilities: lighting, purchase of furniture and technical equipment; MANE also offers internships to those students who are interested. Every year, MANE Shanghai also runs the Love Apples operation, in partnership with The Children of Madaifu. MANE buys apples from the association • SolidarSport, which promotes respect in all its forms through sport and cultural activities with schools; and the profits from this sale are used to fund the association's activities, especially the Orphanage without walks programme allowing children to go to school and continue their studies while staying with close family. • CEW, whose beauty centres provide free beauty treatments to hospital patients; • Les Amis Des Enfants (ADE), which supports children in Sudan; • La Fondation Motrice, which supports research into cerebral palsy; • the congregation of the Petites Sœurs des Pauvres; • the Saint Matthieu Foundation for Catholic schools; • Grasse hospital, to support aromatherapy workshops for chemotherapy patients. 118 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 119 INDIA KANCOR-MANE has implemented a CSR policy focusing on social engagement and investment in the communities where the company does business. This policy is focused on the following three priorities: 1 Supporting sustainable purchasing through programmes that aim to support KANCOR-MANE farmers and suppliers in improving farming practices and post-harvest processing in order to minimise the carbon footprint of their supply chain (training, awareness, supply of clean packaging); 2 Supporting access to key health services and clean water as well as appropriate sanitary facilities to improve hygiene conditions and comfort for local populations (e.g. in schools and neighbouring villages); 3 Supporting education through funding to meet the needs of schoolchildren (books, shoes, school kits, uniforms) in the areas in which KANCOR-MANE is located. SOUTH AFRICA For 5 years now, MANE South Africa has been In November 2018, MANE South Africa employees supporting the Children's Hospital Trust, which raises (Johannesburg, Cape Town and DELI SPICES) funds for the War Memorial Children's Hospital, the donated 110 personalised shoeboxes filled with gifts largest children's hospital in sub-Saharan Africa. as part of the Santa Shoebox Project. The Santa In 2018, KANCOR-MANE contributed to the installation A child requiring intensive care is a harrowing Shoebox Project began in Cape Town in 2006 with of masts for public lighting and solar lamps for the experience for the whole family. It is therefore 180 modest shoeboxes. In 12 years, the number of village of Mottebennur (Byadgi), and the installation of important for hospitals to create a comfortable and Santa shoeboxes donated has reached 762,594 units. drinking water facilities in the lemongrass supply area welcoming space for families, and just as important to The project’s success is attributed to its personal of Orissa. create an Environment that complies with the highest nature: donors know the names, ages and gender of standards so that the intensive care department can the children who will receive their gifts. The project In the district of Ernakulam, in the state of Kerala, provide advanced treatments for children whose is supported by a vast network of volunteers in South which was badly affected by the August 2018 floods, symptoms require careful monitoring. Since its Africa and Namibia volunteers who devote their KANCOR-MANE has provided assistance to around creation, the Trust has helped the hospital modernise time, energy, and know-how and receive no financial fifty families who suffered considerable property its buildings, buy vital equipment and fund essential compensation in return. The project is also made damage. In a village near their plant, where women research and training programmes. After several possible due to the generous support of several made cotton fabrics, the looms were heavily damaged years in planning and construction, the first of three company sponsors who provide financial backing or by the floods, thereby depriving families of their intensive care units opened its doors in August 2016, other types of aid. livelihoods. KANCOR-MANE compensated these while a second unit providing facilities for patients, families by offering women sewing machines to help families and staff opened in November 2017 and a them rebuild their lives. third unit providing neonatal intensive care will open in February 2018. 120 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 121 RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING INCORPORATING CSR INTO MANE's responsible purchasing policy involves: INVOLVING OUR SUPPLIERS IN OUR COMMITMENTS PURCHASING MANE involves its suppliers in its CSR policy, especially suppliers considered “significant” for the OUR STRATEGY QQ A Code of Ethics for Group buyers that Group. A supplier is considered “significant” if they are one of the strategic suppliers who are commits buyers to behaving in an ethical important to the Group and/or if they pose a potential risk linked to CSR. In 2018, the panel of Our activities are mainly linked to the purchasing of manner to build fair relationships with our “significant” suppliers represented 91% of the total amount of raw materials purchased and packaged raw materials and packaging. The quality of MANE’s suppliers, not engage in discriminatory at its head office (Bar-Sur-Loup). relationships with its suppliers helps to sustain its supply practices and ensure the transparency of any chains in the long term. In this way, MANE is committed transactions; As an extension of our own Sustainable Development Policy, we ask all our significant suppliers to to building lasting relationships with suppliers all around QQ Awareness-raising and training for buyers to sign MANE’s Purchasing and Sustainable Development Charter, formalising what the Group expects the world based on balancing individual interests, trust, prevent and detect acts of corruption; of its suppliers in terms of CSR. By signing it, suppliers undertake to respect the principles of CSR and reciprocal CSR commitments. with a view to continuous improvement. QQ Purchasing and Sustainable Development Charter for MANE suppliers, to present The Group believes it has a responsibility to influence the actions of its suppliers in terms of both our Sustainable Development policy and >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: encourage them to respect our six basic environmental and socio-economic impact. This principles of human rights, working standards, 2021 Objective: ambition aims to incorporate CSR as a key selection Environment, responsible purchasing and antiOver 90% of MANE Bar-sur-Loup purchasing volume coming from suppliers committed to a criterion for our suppliers, alongside aspects such as corruption; CSR policy quality, cost and deadlines. QQ A methodology to assess potential CSR risks For this reason, our responsible purchasing policy is linked to countries of origin, categories of suppliers or raw materials; 2021 objective achieved in 2018 an integral part of our CSR strategy. We expect our suppliers to adhere to the Group's ethical and CSR QQ Training for MANE's internal auditors and principles. To achieve this aim, we ensure suppliers buyers to perform on-site CSR audits for are linked to a CSR policy and provide support to suppliers; 90% 90% assess their practices and carry out on-site audits QQ A CSR assessment process for suppliers. (for suppliers identified as being at risk). Although only 53% of our purchases were made from suppliers committed to a CSR policy in 2009, we have set a target to increase this to 90% by 2021. In 2018, 3 years before this deadline, we have already achieved this target. 90% of purchases made by head office are made from suppliers committed to a CSR policy, either by signing our Purchasing and Sustainable Development Charter (74%), or through a CSR policy communicated publicly and/or recognised by an independent thirdparty organisation if they do not want to sign our own Guidelines (16%). 122 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 123 SUSTAINABLE SOURCING PROJECTS CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS WITH LOCAL PRODUCERS OF PERFUME PLANTS CSR ASSESSMENT OF OUR SUPPLIERS OUR RESULTS: MANE's head office is located at Bar-sur-Loup, near the birthplace of the perfume industry, In order to ensure respect for the CSR principles Grasse. Flower production in the Grasse region is part of our history and heritage. These are the set out in the Guidelines signed by our suppliers, flowers, expertly showcased by perfumers, that have written our history, sculpted our landscape we have developed a two-stage approach. Proportion of MANE Bar-sur-Loup significant and contributed to the economic success of Grasse and the perfume industry. However, this suppliers evaluated on their CSR (on site audit or French speciality is gradually disappearing, overtaken by urbanisation, relocation of plantations Firstly, we provide our suppliers with a selfEcoVadis evaluation) and competition from cheaper synthetic materials. For this reason, MANE decided to get involved assessment tool for their CSR practices to help in preserving and restoring its plantations in the Grasse region. For several years now, as part of them identify their significant CSR challenges and 38 % its responsible purchasing policy, MANE has been committed to building special relationships with build their CSR action plan, if necessary (particularly small growers of perfume plants from Grasse and Provence (narcissus, jasmine, Centifolia rose, for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, or SMEs). 27 % mimosa, lavandin, cypress, etc.). We also ask them about the geographical origin of 17 % their raw materials and the type of supply chain VIRTUOUS VANILLA SUPPLY (MADAGASCAR) (direct origin with no intermediaries, or indirect via one or more intermediaries). As the MANE Group Vanilla beans processed by MANE come from Madagascar. Our supply chain, in place for over forty is a member of the EcoVadis and Sedex platforms, years, was reinforced twenty years ago with the creation of a local structure to help producers we also offer the option for suppliers to give us 0% improve their farming practices and export vanilla beans. Our partner, FLORIBIS, represents access to their EcoVadis scorecard or SMETA audit MANE's interests locally with farmers, cooperatives and gatherers. For example, FLORIBIS's 2009 2016 2017 2018 report as an alternative. This first phase of study agricultural extension workers teach farmers how to improve cultivation and preparation. This gives us an initial overview of the supplier’s level of work significantly improves the quality of the vanilla beans. Farmers are encouraged by the results. responsibility and allows us to determine whether MANE also deals directly with cooperatives to guarantee a minimum purchase price and with they are potentially “at risk” in terms of CSR. NGOs aiming to protect biodiversity. Secondly, we strive to assess, as a priority and in >> ACHIEVEMENT RATE FOR OUR 2021 TARGET: With FLORIBIS, MANE has developed strong ties with local communities and endeavours to more detail, suppliers whom we have identified constantly create shared value with all stakeholders involved in the vanilla supply chain. Building as being potentially at risk. To that end, we have on initiatives in place since 2009 to support the FITAMA cooperative to produce fair tradeseveral options: plan a CSR audit carried out on 2021 Objective: certified vanilla, MANE renewed its commitment by signing a tripartite agreement with the NGO Over 50% of significant* suppliers will have been evaluated site by MANE, have the supplier assessed by FANAMBY and FLORIBIS in May 2014. The aim was to implement an entirely traceable vanilla on their CSR (audit performed on site by MANE, Ecovadis EcoVadis, or ask the supplier to undergo an audit evaluation or SMETA audit) supply, from pollination to the flavour stage, in order to: by an independent third-party organisation (for 2018 2021 example, according to the SMETA benchmark or QQ Ensure a stable supply of vanilla beans; the Ecocert Fair for Life & For Life standards). QQ Guarantee complete traceability along the supply chain; 38% 50% QQ Ensure quality control of vanilla beans from farming communities in Vohemar, one of the four main villages in the vanilla-producing region known as “SAVA” (Sambava, Andapa, Vohemar, Antalaha) in north-western Madagascar; QQ Guarantee Sustainable and responsible purchasing that complies with ethical and social standards. At the end of 2018, 38% of our “significant” suppliers were assessed on their CSR (either via an audit carried out on site or via an assessment carried out by EcoVadis), which represents a coverage rate of 38% of our “significant” suppliers compared to our 2021 target of 50%. We are therefore on track to achieve this target over the next three years. 124 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 125 FLORIBIS manages the plantation and quality control of all MANE purchases in Madagascar and the NGO FANAMBY provides its support and expertise in management and training to the vanilla communities that partner MANE. A critical issue for local communities is ensuring food storage and supply for periods where there are no crops to meet basic needs. MANE therefore provided funding to build a rice granary and to purchase initial stocks of rice. The first stone was laid in July 2014, and the granary was completed in February 2015. In social terms, the vanilla purchased by MANE has an impact on 10,000 farmers in Madagascar. MANE and FLORIBIS have implemented a payment system for farmers so that they can earn extra income for higher quality vanilla beans (500 farm labourers and 280 farmers benefit from this system). We provide training and guidelines for harvesting beans that have reached full maturity (good pollination, growing and care practices). From an environmental perspective, deforestation is a significant cause of biodiversity loss in Madagascar. Plantation areas are often expanded so they encroach on forests. The NGO FANAMBY and FLORIBIS are working on mapping domains to limit forest destruction and have implemented a 5-year reforestation programme in a protected area. FANAMBY is also managing the creation of a national park in Daraina, where farmers who supply vanilla beans to MANE and FLORIBIS are located. This region in Madagascar is unique and precious in terms of biodiversity and the national park will soon be listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In 2018, MANE continued to expand its vanilla supply plot and by week. This year, we also have a new and We are also continuing our initiatives aimed at creating shared value, as defined sources in Madagascar and optimise monitoring very simple yet effective traceability tool: a mobile in the MANE 2018-2021 plan to support Madagascan vanilla, particularly in of the traceability of vanilla. We are increasing our app called METAJUA, which allows you to record terms of health with the funding of the Vohemar hospital and through various partnerships with vanilla producing communities data on farming communities and share it with various investments to improve daily hygiene. Education is also a priority of this plan. in order to meet demand from our customers for partners. For each farmer, the app tracks information To fight against illiteracy, we provide access to education to as many people as natural vanilla. MANE has thereby developed 25% on their plantation, the flowering of vanilla plants possible in these farming communities and beyond. extra capacity by increasing partnerships with (log, statistics, estimated harvest date, etc.) and the farming communities. We are also developing our purchase of green vanilla or vanilla prepared by offer in terms of quality, particularly the opening of a the farmer (date, delivery person, quantity, price, new community around fair trade. All our traceability quality, etc.). This tool also allows us to assess the processes are certified and audited by ECOCERT. potential and performance of each plantation and each farming community, which is very important to To ensure the everyday traceability of vanilla from continue selecting the best vanilla pods. Analysing farming communities, we have formalised oversight the data collected is vital to encourage farmers and of farming communities in the form of agreements put in place corrective action. including the establishment of pollination records, indexing all pollinated flowers (then green pods) by 126 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 127 SUSTAINABLE VETIVER PRODUCTION (MADAGASCAR) Vetiver is a remarkable plant currently grown for its roots. It is very tolerant of drought, and has been used in the past for the construction of roofs, to make brushes, to protect furniture and linen and to protect soil against erosion. Vetiver has also always been used for its essential oil, extracted from its roots. Since the 80s, vetiver growing in Madagascar has stopped due to lack of interest from Madagascan farmers. Devastating hurricanes in Haiti have also led to a bad harvest of this source, causing prices to rocket. Seven years ago, in collaboration with the communities involved in MANE’s vanilla supply chain in Madagascar, MANE reintroduced the cultivation of Bourbon vetiver in Madagascar. Production of precious roots has now intensified and the quality of the essential oil is stable. This project has two effects on local communities: it generates a second source of income (after vanilla) and, because the crop is grown on a plot at Vohemar airport, it contributes to the maintenance of the regional airport. Vetiver is grown on poor soil with no additives or additional watering. The crops are planted section by section to allow farmers to harvest all year round. The roots reach maturity after one year, a time period which is very important for ensuring the olfactory quality of the Bourbon vetiver. On our plantation, farmers are trained by FLORIBIS to follow good harvesting practices to ensure constant quality. 128 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 129 A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN FOR TIMUR BERRIES (NEPAL) Also known as Timut pepper, Timur berries are used As part of the HVAP (High Value Agriculture Project) as a spice in Chinese, Tibetan, Nepalese and Indian programme created by the Nepalese government, cooking and in traditional Chinese medicine due to and under the supervision of two local NGOs, their active properties. They develop an unusual MANE is actively participating in the development aroma, with clear citrus (lemon, grapefruit), plant of a sustainable supply chain for Timur berries with and woody notes, and provide interesting olfactory the Kuvindedaha community in the Salyan district. properties to perfumes. MANE has signed a trade agreement which aims to increase income and stabilise demand for farmers The berries grow on small thorny trees of the while ensuring quality and traceability for customers. Zanthoxylum armatum species which, in the wild, is native to the mountains of Surkhet in the middle 75 households (around 300 people) will benefit from mountains region (known as the hill region) of the economic effects of this supply chain. The sale of Nepal, between 1,000 and 2,000m in altitude. The Timur berries is an incredible opportunity to empower berries are generally picked by disadvantaged, lowlocal women. By increasing their income, the women caste, rural communities that depend on farming will now be able to fix their homes, educate their to survive. Women do the bulk of the production children and send them to good schools. In some and harvesting while the men go to look for work cases, it can also help to limit the rural exodus of men in India. For this reason, the berries are often their from the community who generally travel for several only source of income. Given their place in the years at a time to the big cities in India or Qatar to value chain, the women are vulnerable to price find work. fluctuations and are therefore unable to guarantee a stable income for themselves. MANE is also investing in the community to encourage social development, specifically by building rain water reservoirs and rolling out an educational programme for women. In 2014, a nursery was set up to supply Timur plants to farmers and support the creation of plantations, as a complement to picking wild berries. It will take 5 years for these plants to produce fruit for harvesting. 130 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 131 CONSUMER HEALTH AND SAFETY FOOD SAFETY FOR FLAVOURS Consumers today are particularly concerned with food safety, due to increasing concerns caused by various recent health crises. Ensuring the quality and safety of our food flavours is therefore crucial for our food processing customers. The aim is to protect consumer health and safety. Our approach covers the whole logistics chain, starting with suppliers. We incorporate very strict controls in our purchasing and audit processes, enabling us to select safe and high-quality raw materials. Product/process audits are carried out at the supplier’s premises to ensure they are able to meet the MANE Group’s quality and safety requirements and to identify possible areas of weakness. All our production sites (in France and abroad) have put in place quality and food safety management systems, which set out the procedures and methods to be followed at each stage of production (receipt, quality control during production, final check) to ensure the manufacturing and quality control of our products meets strict standards. Long before the finished products leave our sites, we test them to make sure they can be used safely. The tests carried out on finished products generally include physicochemical, microbiological and organoleptic tests. This ensures that the finished products we supply to our customers are safe and of uniform quality, meeting consumer safety requirements. The majority of the Group's food flavour manufacturing sites are ISO 9001, IFS & BRC, FSCC 22000 or ISO 22000-certified, depending on location. 132 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 133 ASSESSING PRODUCT SAFETY (TOXICOLOGY) SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION As early as possible, during the development stage for In addition, MANE encourages the development, We believe our role in sustainable consumption In terms of nutrition, consumers want healthier and new products, we assess the potential toxicological use and regulatory acceptance of alternatives to relates to the products and services we offer, their life nutritionally beneficial products. Our customers in risks posed by the products we manufacture. The conventional animal testing, in particular in the area of cycle and the nature of the information we provide to the food industry are looking to reduce the sugar development process for any new research project fragrance products. In this regard, MANE supports and our customers. and salt content of their products. The challenge is subject to a meticulous safety assessment process. participates in research projects on alternative tests in is to do this without drastically altering the taste Production cannot begin prior to approval by a order to obtain the relevant and required information From this perspective, although the first step for consumers are used to. To this end, MANE has scientific committee made up of members with on its products and to ensure consumer health and MANE is to develop products that provide greater developed a range of products, Sense Capture, various backgrounds. In addition, the raw materials safety. In this way, we are involved in research projects environmental benefits, it is also necessary to to help its customers adapt to these behavioural used to manufacture products must meet strict run by ImmunoSearch (MANE has been a shareholder give customers all the social and environmental changes and new consumer expectations. To specifications drawn up by the Group's Product since 2007), a company that develops high-quality information about our products to enable them to ensure the result meets the taste expectations of Safety and Regulatory Affairs Department. in-vitro toxicology tests to assess the potential for make informed purchases. With GREEN MOTION™, consumers in terms of organoleptic quality, MANE irritation, sensitisation or genotoxicity in perfume and our tool to assess the environmental impact of the offers natural food flavours to decrease quantities MANE is also conscious of animal welfare and cosmetic ingredients, thus avoiding animal testing. ingredients manufactured, MANE gives its customers of sugar (Sense Capture Stevia) and salt (Sense complies with current regulations. MANE does not the chance to find out about the environmental Capture Salt) without changing the taste of the test compositions of its finished products (mixtures) profile of products and makes them aware of the lighter products. A further solution offered to our on animals, either for fragrances or flavours. choice of more “green” formulae. customers is the inclusion of vegetable proteins in Furthermore, no animal testing is carried out or meat products with Sense Capture Protein. ordered by MANE for its manufactured ingredients, unless this is specifically required by national, regional or international regulations. 134 SOCIETAL INFORMATION SOCIETAL INFORMATION 135 9. CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES 136 CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES 137 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Decree Global Compact Report profile Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Reporting period for information provided G4-28 Pages 6-7 1. A propos de ce rapport Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents G4-31 Decree Global Compact Strategy and Analysis Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of Page 8 2. A Word from the President G4-1 sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability 5. Our ethics policy Statement by the Chief Executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact Pages 48-49 > Commitment to the United x Nations Global Compact Description of the main risks related to the activity of the company or of the group of companies including, where relevant and proportionate, the risks created by its business relations, its products or its services 4. Our CSR policy G4-2 Article 2 Description of the policies applied by the company or group of companies including, Pages 26-31 > Our main non financial risks where applicable, the due diligence procedures implemented to prevent, identify and mitigate the occurrence of the risks mentioned Results of these policies, including key performance indicators Decree Global Compact Organizational Profile Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Name of the organization Primary brands, products, and services Location of the organization's headquerters G4-3 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either to the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability Pages 6-7, 1. About this report G4-9 topics covered in the report. 12-17 3. Group profile Nature of ownership and legal form > Our story > Our business model Markets served Scale of the organization (total number of employees, total number of operatins, net sales, quantity of products or services provided…) Commitments to External Initiatives Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Global Compact Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-15 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Holds a position on the governance Pages 18-19 3. Group profile body; Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine > Our external commitments G4-16 membership dues; Views membership as strategic. Identified material Aspects Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 a. Explanation of the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries b. Explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content 4. Our CSR policy G4-18 Pages 20-21 > CSR governance Article 2 7.3.2 List of all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content Page 24 > Key challenges G4-19 138 CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES 139 Relations Decree Relations entretenues Stakeholder entretenues Engagement avec les avec parties prenantes les parties prenantes Pages et chapitres Relevant pages anddédiés du Rapport chapters RSEReport in the CSR GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Global Compact List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 4. Our CSR policy Pages 22-23 Conditions of dialogue with these stakeholders > Stakeholders G4-24 4.5 8. Societal Information à A. 3° a) Pages 114-119 5.3 Partnership or sponsorship activities > Societal commitments supporting G4-27 Sustainable Development Decree Global Compact Ethics and Integrity Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 to 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 5. Our ethics policy Description of the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such > Code of Ethics 4.4 #1-2 as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Page 42 G4-56 > Ethics Committee #3-4-5-6 5. Our ethics policy Anti-corruption Pages 44-45 G4-SO4 B. 1° 6.6.3 # 10 > Anti-corruption scheme 6.3 #1-2 5. Our ethics policy G4-HR10 Human Rights Page 46 > Respect or human rights and working B. 2° standards G4-HR11 140 CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES 141 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: SOCIAL Decree Global Compact General Human Resources policy Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 6. Social information Managerial approach Pages 52-53 > Human resources Policy G4-DMA Decree Global Compact Employment Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Total number of employees by age group, gender and geographical location Pages 54-57 6. Social information G4-LA1 Recruitment and departures A. 1° a) 6.4.4 > Employment Salaries Page 59, > Equal treatment G4-52 Pages 72-73 G4-LA13 Decree Global Compact Organisation of work Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Organisation of working time 6. Social information G4-10 Pages 60-61 A. 1° b) 6.4.4 Absenteeism > Organisation of work G4-LA6 Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact Occupational Health and Safety GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 to 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Health and safety conditions in the workplace G4-DMA 6. Social information Accidents in the workplace Pages 62-65 > Occupational health and safety G4-LA6 A. 1° c) 6.4.6 Summary of collective agreements G4-LA8 Social relations Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Organisation of social dialogue, specifically information gathering, employee consultation and negotiation procedures G4-DMA 6. Social information Summary of collective agreements Pages 66-67 > Social relationships A. 1° d) 6.4.5 #3 Percent of all employees included in a collective agreement GA-11 Training Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Training policies implemented G4-DMA G4-LA10 6. Social information Total training hours Pages 68-70 > Training and education G4-LA9 A. 1° e) 6.4.7 Yearly appraisals G4-LA11 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 Decree ISO 26000 Global Compact n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 Measures taken to support equal treatment for men and women Measures taken to support employment and placement of people living with disabilities 6. Social information A. 1° f) 6.3.7 #6 Pages 72-77 > Eaual treatment Anti-discrimination policy 142 CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES 143 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Decree Global Compact General Environmental Policy Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Organisation of the company to take into account environmental issues and, where necessary, environmental evaluation and certification procedures G4-DMA 7. Environmental information 6.5.1 Employee training and information activities relating to environmental protection Pages 80-84 > Environmental policy A. 2° a) #7-8-9 > Managerial approach 6.5.2 Methods used to prevent environmental hazards and pollution EN31 Decree Global Compact Pollution Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 VOC emissions Page 86-87 G4-EN21 Effluent Page 88 G4-EN22 6.5.3 #7-8-9 Page 94 7. Environmental information A. 2° b) Odour pollution G4-EN27 > Preventing pollution Noise pollution Page 95 G4-EN27 Ground pollution Decree Global Compact Circular economy Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Waste management and prevention Measures to prevent, recycle, reuse, recover or eliminate waste in other ways Pages 90-93 7. Environmental information A. 2° c) i) 6.5.3 G4-EN23 > Preventing pollution Sustainable use of resources G4-DMA # 7 89 Water consumption and supply sources in accordance with local constraints G4-EN8-EN9 Consumption of raw materials and measures taken to improve usage efficiency 7. Environmental information 6.5.4 Pages 96-100 G4-EN1 A. 2° c) ii) > Sustainable use of resources Energy consumption and measures taken to improve energy efficiency G4-DMA G4-EN3 à EN7 Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact Climate change GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Greenhouse gas emissions Measures taken to adapt to the consequences of climate change 7. Environmental information G4-DMA 6.5.5 #7-8-9 Pages 101-107 A. 2° d) > Climate change G4-EN15 à EN18 Medium to long-term reduction targets set voluntarily to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the methods used to achieve this Biodiversity Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report Decree Global Compact GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Pages 7. Environmental information 6.5.6 #7-8-9 Measures taken to preserve or restore biodiversity G4-DMA A. 2° e) 108-111 > Protecting biodiversity 144 CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES 145 CATERGORY: SOCIETAL Decree Global Compact Societal commitments supporting Sustainable Development Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Impact of the company's local employment and development activities 8. Societal information 6.8.3 Pages > Societal commitments supporting A. 3° a) 6.8.5 Impact of the company's activities on local or neighbouring communities 114-121 Sustainable Development 6.8.7 Decree Global Compact Suppliers Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 LA14, LA15 EN33 A. 3° b) Taking social and environmental issues into account in purchasing policies Pages 8. Societal information 6.6.6 #1-2 122-130 > Responsible purchasing HR5, HR9HR11 Decree Global Compact Consumer Health and Safety Relevant pages and chapters in the CSR Report GRI G4 n° 2017-1265 9/08/2017 ISO 26000 Protecting consumer health and safety 6.7.4 Pages 8. Societal information A. 3° c) #7-8-9 132-135 > Consumer health and safety Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 146 CORRESPONDENCE TABLE WITH CSR REPORTING GUIDELINES 147 10. EXTERNAL VERIFICATION 148 149 KPMG S.A. V. MANE FILS S.A. Registered Office: Report by the Statutory Auditor, appointed as an independent third party, Tour EQHO Telephone : +33 (0)1 55 68 86 66 on the consolidated non-financial performance statement in the Management Report 2 Avenue Gambetta Fax : +33 (0)1 55 68 86 60 CS 60055 Website : www.kpmg.fr 92066 Paris la Défense Cedex 13 June 2019 France V. MANE FILS S.A. QQ Tests of details based on sampling to verify that definitions and procedures are Means and resources Resistered Office : 620, Route de Grasse correctly applied and to reconcile data with supporting documents. The work Our work drew on the skills of six individuals and was conducted between January and 06620, Le Bar-sur-Loup was carried out with a selection of entities contributing to the reported data May 2019 for a total working time of approximately five weeks. Capital : €. 24 640 000 and represents between 22% and 88% of consolidated data of key performance To assist us in conducting our work, we called on our firm’s Sustainable Development indicators and outcomes selected for these tests; and corporate social responsibility (CSR) specialists. We conducted around ten V. MANE FILS S.A. We referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate Rapport dethel'un interviews with aux des commissaires individuals the comptes, désigné organismefor responsible tierspreparing the Statement. indépendant, qualitative disclosures (actions and outcomes) that we deemed the most important ; sur la déclaration consolidée de performance extra-financière figurant dans le rapport de gestion REPORT BY THE STATUTORY AUDITOR, APPOINTED AS AN INDEPENDENT THIRD We assessed the overall consistency of the Statement Rapport based de ourdes onl'un understanding commissaires aux ofcomptes, Opinion V. MANE FILS S.A. désigné organisme tiers indépendant, 13 juin 2019 sur la déclaration consolidée de performance extra-financière figurant dans le rapport de gestion all companies within the consolidation scope. Based on our work, we have no2019 material misstatements to report that would call into PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE STATEMENT 13 juin We believe that the work carried out, based on our professional judgment, is sufficient question the compliance of the non-financial performance statement with the applicable to provide a basis for our limited assurance opinion. A higher level of assurance would regulatory provisions, or the fair presentation of the Information, taken as a whole, in IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. 1RXV HVWLPRQV TXH OHV WUDYDX[ TXH QRXV accordance DYRQV with PHQpV HQ H[HUoDQW QRWUH MXJHPHQW the Guidelines. SURIHVVLRQQHOQRXVSHUPHWWHQWGHIRUPXOHUXQHFRQFOXVLRQG¶DVVXUDQFHPRGpUpHXQH 1RXV HVWLPRQV TXHDVVXUDQFHGHQLYHDXVXSpULHXUDXUDLWQpFHVVLWpGHVWUDYDX[GHYpULILFDWLRQSOXVpWHQGXV OHV WUDYDX[ TXH QRXV DYRQV PHQpV HQ H[HUoDQW QRWUH MXJHPHQW SURIHVVLRQQHOQRXVSHUPHWWHQWGHIRUPXOHUXQHFRQFOXVLRQG¶DVVXUDQFHPRGpUpHXQH DVVXUDQFHGHQLYHDXVXSpULHXUDXUDLWQpFHVVLWpGHVWUDYDX[GHYpULILFDWLRQSOXVpWHQGXV 0R\HQVHWUHVVRXUFHV For the year ended 31 December 2018 0R\HQVHWUHVVRXUFHV 1RVWUDYDX[RQWPRELOLVpOHVFRPSpWHQFHVGHVL[SHUVRQQHVHWVHVRQWGpURXOpVHQWUH MDQYLHUHWMXLQVXUXQHGXUpHWRWDOHG¶LQWHUYHQWLRQG¶HQYLURQWURLVVHPDLQHV 1RVWUDYDX[RQWPRELOLVpOHVFRPSpWHQFHVGHVL[SHUVRQQHVHWVHVRQWGpURXOpVHQWUH To the shareholders, Nature and scope of our work 1RXV DYRQV IDLW DSSHO SRXU QRXV DVVLVWHU GDQV OD UpDOLVDWLRQ GH QRV WUDYDX[ j QRV MDQYLHUHWMXLQVXUXQHGXUpHWRWDOHG¶LQWHUYHQWLRQG¶HQYLURQWURLVVHPDLQHV In our capacity as the Statutory Auditor of V. MANE FILS S.A. (hereinafter the “entity”) We performed our work described below in compliance with Article A.225-1 et seq. VSpFLDOLVWHVHQPDWLqUHGHGpYHORSSHPHQWGXUDEOHHWGHUHVSRQVDELOLWpVRFLpWDOH1RXV 1RXV DYRQV IDLW DSSHO SRXU QRXV DVVLVWHU GDQV OD UpDOLVDWLRQ GH QRV WUDYDX[ j QRV appointed as the independent third party, certified by the French Accreditation of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), defining the conditions under DYRQVPHQpXQHGL]DLQHG¶HQWUHWLHQVDYHFOHVSHUVRQQHVUHVSRQVDEOHVGHODSUpSDUDWLRQ VSpFLDOLVWHVHQPDWLqUHGHGpYHORSSHPHQWGXUDEOHHWGHUHVSRQVDELOLWpVRFLpWDOH1RXV GHOD'pFODUDWLRQ DYRQVPHQpXQHGL]DLQHG¶HQWUHWLHQVDYHFOHVSHUVRQQHVUHVSRQVDEOHVGHODSUpSDUDWLRQ Committee (Comité Français d'Accréditation or COFRAC) under number 3-1049 , we which the independent third party performs its engagement, and with the professional GHOD'pFODUDWLRQ Paris La Défense and Valbonne, on 14 June 2018 hereby report to you on the consolidated non-financial performance statement for the guidance issued by the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale &RQFOXVLRQ year ended 31st of December (hereinafter the “Statement”), included in the Management des commissaires aux comptes or CNCC) relating to this engagement and with ISAE &RQFOXVLRQ 6XUODEDVHGHQRVWUDYDX[QRXVQ DYRQVSDVUHOHYpG DQRPDOLHVLJQLILFDWLYHGHQDWXUH Report, in accordance with the legal and regulatory provisions of Articles L.225 102-1, R. 3000 (international standard on assurance engagements other than audits or reviews j UHPHWWUH HQDYRQVSDVUHOHYpG 6XUODEDVHGHQRVWUDYDX[QRXVQ FDXVH OH IDLW TXHDQRPDOLHVLJQLILFDWLYHGHQDWXUH OD GpFODUDWLRQ GH SHUIRUPDQFH H[WUDILQDQFLqUH HVW 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). of historical financial information). j UHPHWWUH HQ FDXVH FRQIRUPH DX[OD OH IDLW TXH KPMG GLVSRVLWLRQV GpFODUDWLRQ GHS.A. UpJOHPHQWDLUHV SHUIRUPDQFH DSSOLFDEOHV HW TXH H[WUDILQDQFLqUH OHV ,QIRUPDWLRQV SULVHV HVW GDQVOHXUHQVHPEOHVRQWSUpVHQWpHVGHPDQLqUHVLQFqUHFRQIRUPpPHQWDX5pIpUHQWLHO FRQIRUPH DX[ GLVSRVLWLRQV UpJOHPHQWDLUHV DSSOLFDEOHV HW TXH OHV ,QIRUPDWLRQV SULVHV GDQVOHXUHQVHPEOHVRQWSUpVHQWpHVGHPDQLqUHVLQFqUHFRQIRUPpPHQWDX5pIpUHQWLHO Responsibility of the entity We conducted work to form an opinion on the Statement’s compliance with legal and It is the Management Board's responsibility to prepare a Statement in accordance regulatory provisions and the fair presentation of the Information therein: Philippe Arnaud Philippe Levert with legal and regulatory provisions, including a presentation of the business model, a Partner  Sustainability Services Partner 3DULV/D'pIHQVHHW1LFHOHMXLQ description of the main non-financial risks, a presentation of policies applied to mitigate We gained an understanding of the activity of all companies in the consolidation 3DULV/D'pIHQVHHW1LFHOHMXLQ these risks and the outcomes of those policies, including key performance indicators. scope, of the Entity’s exposure to the main social and environmental risks relating to .30*6$ .30*6$  The Statement has been prepared applying the procedures of the entity (hereinafter the business activity ;   the “Guidelines”), the most significant aspects of which are presented in the Statement We assessed the appropriateness of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance,  and available upon request at the entity’s headquarters. completeness, reliability, neutrality and clarity, by taking into consideration, where relevant, the sector’s best practices;   Independence and quality control We verified that the Statement covers every category of information required under 3KLOLSSH$UQDXG 3KLOLSSH$UQDXG 3KLOLSSH/HYHUW 3KLOLSSH/HYHUW Our independence is defined by the provisions of Article L.822-11-3 of the French Article L.225-102-1, Paragraph III concerning social and environmental matters; Associé Associé Associé Associé Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics for statutory auditors (Code de We verified that the Statement presents the business model and the main risks relating Sustainability Services Sustainability Services déontologie). Moreover, we have implemented a quality control system that includes to the activity of all companies in the consolidation scope, including – if relevant and Philippe Arnaud Philippe Levert  Partner  Partner documented policies and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable ethical proportionate – risks due to its business relationships, products or services, as well as  Sustainability Services rules, professional standards, laws and regulations. policies, actions and outcomes, including key performance indicators; We verified that the Statement presents the disclosures required under article R. 225Responsibility of the independent third party 105, Paragraph II, of the French Commercial Code if they are relevant given the main On the basis of our work, it is our responsibility to express a limited assurance opinion risks or policies presented; about whether: We obtained an understanding of the process for selecting and validating the main The Statement complies with the provisions of Article R. 225-105 of the French risks; Commercial Code; We enquired about the existence of internal control and risk management procedures ([HUFLFHFORVOHGpFHPEUH ([HUFLFHFORVOHGpFHPEUH The information provided (hereinafter the “Information”) is fairly presented in implemented by the entity; accordance with Article R.225-105-I(3) and II of the French Commercial Code We assessed the consistency of the outcomes and key performance indicators with the concerning policy outcomes, including key performance indicators and actions relating main risks and policies presented; to the main risks. We verified that the Statement covers all companies in the consolidation scope in accordance with Article L. 233-16 within the limits specified in the Statement; However, it is not our responsibility to express an opinion on: We assessed the data collection process implemented by the entity to ensure the completeness and fair presentation of the Information; The entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions; QQ For key performance indicators and the other quantitative outcomes that we The compliance of products and services with applicable regulatory provisions. considered the most important, we set up: QQ Analytical procedures to verify that collected data is correctly consolidated and that any changes to the data are consistent; 1 Accreditation scope available at www.cofrac.fr 4 Occupational health and safety conditions, Measures for the employment of disabled Siège social : 2 Total workforce and distribution by gender, Number of hirings, Number of departures, peopled, Equal opportunity, Environmental management, Climate change, Prevention of KPMG S.A. Proportion of employees who have received training, Frequency rate for accident with pollution, Protection of the Biodiversity, Action implemented to fight corruption, Actions Tour Eqho 2 avenue Gambetta leave, Energy consumption per tonne of product, Water consumption per tonne of product, implemented to promote human rights, Sustainable consumption and purchasing, 92066 Paris la Défense Cedex Société anonyme d’expertise comptable et de commissariat Capital : 5 497 100 €. Greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1 and 2) per tonne of product, Hazardous waste. Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety, Philanthropy. Code APE 6920Z aux comptes à directoire et conseil de surveillance. 3 V. MANE FILS S.A. plant of Le Bar-sur-Loup (France), PT MANE Indonesia, KANCOR Inscrite au Tableau de l’Ordre à Paris sous le n° 14-30080101 775 726 417 R.C.S. Nanterre (Thailand). et à la Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes TVA Union Européenne de Versailles. FR 77 775 726 417 150 151 Photo credits: David Morganti, Gérard Uféras, Patrick Hanez Image Banks: Pexel, Istockphoto, Shutterstock, Unsplash, Pixabay 152
