1 Ørsted Ørsted Sustainability report 2018 A greener planet for a better world 1 Ørsted Keeping global warming below 1.5ºC is crucial Global warming caused by increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is changing the conditions for life on Earth. As a global society, we must drastically accelerate climate action and the transition from black to green energy to avoid catastrophic consequences for nature, humans, and the economy. Today, global temperatures are 1.1ºC above industrial processes, and for transportation. warming at a maximum of 1.5ºC to avoid the pre-industrial period, and average The remaining 25% of global emissions substantially exacerbating the damaging temperatures of the past four years are come from agriculture, forestry, and other effects of climate change. the highest on record. Already today, sea land use. levels are rising, and weather conditions According to the IPCC, staying below are becoming increasingly extreme with Staying below 1.5ºC 1.5ºC of warming is better because the significant costs to nature, humans, and the The 2015 Paris Agreement set out to keep consequences of a 2ºC temperature rise are economy. temperature increases well below 2ºC significantly more uncertain. Temperature above pre-industrial levels and preferably increases above 2ºC could trigger natural Approx 75% of global carbon emissions below 1.5ºC. In 2018, the Intergovernmental processes such as thawing of permafrost come from the use of fossil-based energy. Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) clearly that releases methane gas, contraction of This energy is used for power, heat, laid out the case for keeping global the snow cover that reflects heat from the sun, and reduction of the sea’s ability to absorb carbon. According to the IPCC, this would result in significantly warmer temperatures and Global temperature increase catastrophic consequences for life on Earth. The concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere has never been higher. Today o After a short period of stagnation, emissions C 2.00 from the use of all types of fossil fuels rose by 1.6% in 2017 and are set to rise by 2.7% in 1.75 Warming rate 2018. Scientists estimate that current global emission levels put us on a path towards 1.50 temperature rises of more than 3ºC by 2100. 1.25 This is clearly not a sustainable trajectory. As a global ­society, we are not doing what 1.00 science tells us to do. 0.75 At the current emissions trajectory, overshooting the 1.5ºC pathway could 0.50 happen already in 2030. To keep the warming around 1.5ºC, global emissions 0.25 would need to fall by 55% by 2030, compared to current emission levels, 0.00 and reach net zero around 2050. Such 1950 1970 1990 2010 2030 2050 reductions in global carbon emissions will require profound and unprecedented action Source: IPCC by all nations around the world. Sustainability report 2018 2 Contents Keeping global warming below 1.5ºC is crucial 1 Societal impact from our wind farms 3 CEO statement 5 Our sustainability strategy 7 A world that runs entirely on green energy 9 Pursuing a greener and more prosperous world 10 Accelerating the global green energy transformation 11 Our investments in green energy bring tangible benefits to society 13 Waste is a resource for green energy 17 Enabling sustainable growth 21 Meeting the future’s green energy needs in a sustainable manner 22 Replacing fossil fuels with sustainable biomass 23 Taking care of the rich diversity of life on Earth 25 A workplace where everyone feels acknowledged 26 Business integrity 31 Addressing societal expectations with integrity 32 Cyber security is a social responsibility 33 A healthy working life in a busy world 34 Advancing sustainability performance through materiality 39 Overseeing sustainability performance through governance 41 Sustainability programmes and SDG contributions 43 Our business model 45 Sustainability ratings and memberships 46 This report constitutes Ørsted's compliance with the statutory disclosure on corporate social responsibility, see the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a. For the gender distribution of management and compliance with section 99b, see our ESG performance report 2018. 3 Ørsted Societal impact from UK our wind farms 3,182MW 7.1 million 3.9 million tonnes 2,604MW — At Ørsted, we have a vision of a world that runs entirely on green energy. As one of the world’s largest green energy developers, sustainability is deeply rooted in what we do and who we are as a company. US In this report, you can read about our work 833MW with sustainability and how we contribute to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. 0.5 million 0.4 million tonnes 184MW 1,484MW Our main contributions to the SDGs Adopted by all United Nations SDG 7 aims to ensure access to clean SDG 8 aims to promote sustainable SDG 13 calls for urgent action to fight Member States in 2015, the 17 and affordable energy for all. Today, economic growth and decent work climate change and its impacts. Since Sustainable Development Goals 81% of global energy consumption is for all. Converting the world’s energy fossil-based energy use accounts (SDGs) constitute the most pressing based on fossil fuels. To achieve the systems from black to green requires for approx 75% of global carbon economic, social and environmental goal, societies need to accelerate the significant investments that create emissions, creating a world on green challenges that the world needs transformation of our energy systems economic growth and employment. energy will be necessary to limit to solve. At Ørsted, we particularly from black to green. climate change. focus on advancing two of the SDGs, namely 7 (clean and affordable How we contribute How we contribute How we contribute energy) and 13 (fighting climate • In 2018, 75% of our energy generation • In the past ten years, we have • We have reduced the carbon change), and by consequence, we was green. By 2025, we target 99%. invested DKK 165 billion in intensity of our energy gene­ration also contribute significantly to SDG 8 • Our offshore wind farms can gene­ green energy with our partners. by 72% compared to 2006, aiming (economic growth). rate enough green energy to power Towards 2025, we expect to invest for a 98% reduction by 2025. more than 12 million people. By 2025, additional DKK 200 billion in green • Since 2006, power from our we aim to install enough capacity to energy. offshore wind farms has helped power more than 30 million people. • The offshore wind farms we avoid emissions of more than • By 2030, we have a target of more have installed together with the 31 million tonnes of CO2, equal to than 30GW of green energy generaoffshore wind farms we have under taking all approx 16 million cars in tion capacity that comprises onand construction create 180,000 job Los Angeles, New York, and San offshore wind, solar PV and biomassyears in their lifetimes. Francisco off the street for a year. fired power stations. This is enough to power more than 50 million people. Sustainability report 2018 4 Denmark Legend 1,006MW Installed capacity (by 2018) 2.1 million People powered (by 2018) 1.1 million tonnes Avoided emissions (in 2018)* — Under construction — Awarded * Our wind farms help avoid carbon emissions by displacing fossil-based energy from the energy mix. We report avoided emissions based on our power generation from wind farms, adjusted for Ørsted ownership share (after divestments). In 2018, our generation of wind power avoided Netherlands Germany 6.7 million tonnes CO2. In addition, we helped avoid 1.4 million tonnes CO2 through our sustainable biomass— 1,384MW based generation. — 3.2 million In comparison, energy generation at our combined heat and power — 1.3 million tonnes stations and other fuel consumption of e.g. vessels and cars accounted for 752MW — 3.5 million tonnes of CO2 in 2018. Our — 1,142MW carbon emissions from generation and transportation will be close to Taiwan zero by 2023 as we phase out coal. ­— — — — 1,820MW A world that runs entirely on green energy starts with ourselves Entirely green Ørsted's targets Ørsted's current performance 100% Green energy share ≥99% by 2025 75% 100% Carbon reduction* (g CO2e/kWh) ≥98% by 2025 72% 100% Coal reduction* 100% by 2023 81% 100% Certified sustainable biomass 100% by 2020 83% Share of own power consumption 100% covered by green energy 100% from 2018 100% * Compared to 2006 5 Ørsted To limit climate change and to power the world sustainably, we must drastically accelerate the transformation of the world’s energy systems from black to green. Sustainability report 2018 6 CEO statement Climate change is the defining challenge has dropped by 60% since 2014. And with company where everyone is acknow­ of our time. Scientific reports published in the global build-out rate of offshore wind ledged for who they are, regardless of 2018 demonstrate that the world should expected to further accelerate in the years sexual orientation or other personal aim for no more than a 1.5°C temperato come, the decline in cost is expected characteristics. ture increase to limit the most damaging to continue so that offshore wind will effects from climate change. However, the continue to outcompete fossil fuels across The UN Sustainable Development Goals world is currently on a path towards the globe. express the greatest challenges that a more than 3°C temperature rise. the world must solve towards 2030, and In 2018, Ørsted continued to strengthen its climate change is among the biggest. In Now is the time to take bold action to offshore wind platform. We were awarded Ørsted, we commit to creating tangible avoid irreversible changes to global econew projects in Germany without subsidies, progress to help achieve the Sustainable systems. At Ørsted, we commit to reducand we increased our geographic footprint Development Goals. We do so by taking ing our carbon emissions in line with the by acquiring the leading US offshore wind active part in transforming the global enerscientific recommendation to limit global developer, Deepwater Wind. gy systems from black to green. temperature increases to no more than 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. We also expanded our portfolio of green As an active participant of the UN energy technologies by entering the onGlobal Compact, we will also continue Our dependence on fossil fuels is the shore wind and solar markets. We acquired to promote the ten principles on human biggest cause of climate change. The a leading US onshore wind business, Lincoln and labour rights, the environment, modern world was built on fossil fuels, Clean Energy, and commissioned our first and anti-corruption. In this report, you which still today make up more than 80% large-scale energy storage project near can read about how we work with of global energy consumption. To limit Liverpool, UK. sustainability and our contribution to the climate change and to power the world UN Sustainable Development Goals. In our sustainably, we must drastically accelerate The transformation to green energy ESG performance report, you will find our the transformation of the world’s energy requires substantial investment. Over the detailed reporting of sustainability data. systems from black to green. past decade, we have invested approx DKK 165 billion in green energy together At Ørsted, our vision is a world that runs with partners, and in the years to come, entirely on green energy, and we have we plan to substantially increase our been and still are on a radical decarboniannual investments. By 2030, our ambition sation journey ourselves. At the end of is to have installed more than 30GW of 2018, 75% of our energy generation was renewable energy capacity, enough to green, and we will continue to drive out power more than 50 million people across fossil-based energy generation towards the world. our target of 99% green energy by 2025, making our generation of heat and power We want Ørsted to be a company where essentially carbon-free. Since 2006, we people are safe at work, and where they have reduced the carbon intensity of our thrive professionally and personally. In energy generation by 72%. 2018, we achieved a new record-low level of safety incidents at work, and we A world fully powered by green energy is took important steps to strengthen our not only necessary to avoid irreversible commitment to diversity and inclusion. change to our planet Earth, it is also posWe initiated the ‘Female Spotlight’ talent sible. Today, green energy is the economic programme to further encourage our ­ choice, as life-time costs of new renewable ta­lented women to pursue a career in energy generation is lower than those of senior management, and we signed new-built coal, gas and nuclear plants. For the UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct Henrik Poulsen offshore wind alone, the cost in Europe to reaffirm our commitment to be a CEO, Ørsted 7 Ørsted Our sustainability strategy Our common home, planet Earth, is a beautiful place full of stunning nature, fascinating creatures, and people of all kinds. But our home is under pressure. The United Nations have defined our greatest social, environmental, economic, and institutional challenges towards 2030 in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With our vision of a world that runs entirely on green energy and through our sustainability programmes, we want to inspire and take real action to help meet the SDGs and make the planet a better, cleaner and more prosperous home for everybody. The Sustainable Development Goals constiOn the following page, you can find an partners in WWF (World Wide Fund for Natute an ambitious plan to make the planet overview presenting the three priorities with ture, Denmark). a better home for nature, wildlife and the societal challenges on the left side of each people who inhabit it. With a starting point column and the corresponding programmes With our vision of a world that runs entirely in our vision of a world that runs entirely on on the right. Read more about how we idenon green energy and our commitment to green energy and our commitments to the tify societal challenges and build sustainabilithe UN Sustainable Development Goals, UN SDGs and Global Compact principles, we ty programmes on pages 39-41 in this report. we have given a promise to our stakeholdwant to make a positive contribution to the ers that we want to be among the global SDGs, while at the same time minimising poThe most significant change in 2018 is that leaders when it comes to sustainability. tential negative impacts. Our sustainability we have strengthened our programme ‘Green Our sustainability programmes help us to strategy sets the direction for how we take leadership’ that addresses the ‘Climate action’ continuously advance our sustainability action on our commitment. theme. Previously, the programme had a agenda and to work productively to meet sole focus on reducing carbon emissions in the expectations of our stakeholders, and the Our sustainability strategy builds on the our energy generation. But with the growing programmes are a collaborative effort that societal challenges that we and our stakeurgency of climate action, expectations of unites our entire organisation. An overview holders believe are most material to our the private sector are increasing. of our 20 sustainability programmes can be business. ­Annually, we make an assessment found in the relevant chapters of this report. to de­termine the societal challenges most We have strengthened our ‘Green leadership’ material to us and to identify new or changing programme by adding three new compoReporting on our contribution to the sustainability frameworks and requirements nents. Firstly, we align our practices and Sustainable Development Goals that our stakeholders expect us to implement. reporting with the recommendations from The UN Sustainable Development Goals the Task-force on Climate-related Financial constitute the 17 most pressing economic, We address the material societal challenges Disclosures (TCFD) that promote integration social and environmental challenges that that we identify through sustainability proof climate risks into business strategy and the world needs to solve by 2030. grammes, which all have actions, policies, prodisclosure. cedures, performance indicators, and targets, Seen from a business perspective, the goals where relevant. All programmes are owned Secondly, we have implemented climate-realso constitute vast business opportuniby a member of our senior management. lated performance indicators in the incentive ties. The magnitude and complexity of the programmes of our Group Executive Board. challenges posed by the SDGs means that Addressing societal challenges through The indicators focus on the green energy public policy and private sector initiative sustainability programmes share of our generation and our carbon must go hand-in-hand to drive the scalable, To address our material societal challengemission reductions. Previously, climate-relataffordable, and sustainable solutions that are es in 2019, we structure our work in 20 ed indicators were only rewarded indirectly needed to achieve the goals. sustainability programmes. We divide our through green energy build-out targets. programmes into three overarching priorities Our sustainability programmes help us that also structure this report: Thirdly, we have strengthened our efforts advance and measure Ørsted’s positive and • Pursuing a world that runs entirely on to increase awareness of climate change, negative potential impacts on the SDGs. green energy especially among the younger generations 15 out of our 20 sustainability programmes • Enabling sustainable growth to help them advocate for a cleaner and contribute directly to the SDGs. In our pre• Ensuring business integrity better future. We do this together with our vious sustainability reports, the assessment Sustainability report 2018 8 Our three sustainability priorities A world that runs entirely on green energy Our priority Societal challenges Sustainability programmes By pursuing 'A world that runs entirely Climate action 1. Green leadership on green energy', we address societal Green energy deployment 2. Deployment of offshore wind challenges for which Ørsted can provide 3. Greener power stations market-scale solutions in a manner that Green energy integration and flexibility 4. Integration of green energy creates value for society and our business at the same time. Enabling sustainable growth Our priority Societal challenges Sustainability programmes Through 'Enabling sustainable growth', Biomass sustainability 5. Sourcing of certified biomass we address the social and environmental Community impact and local content 6. Local communities impacts of our operations and business Biodiversity impact 7. Protecting biodiversity relations to enable growth of our Talent development 8. Employee development business in a sustainable manner. 9. Employee satisfaction Diversity and equal opportunity 10. Employee diversity and inclusion Energy efficiency 11. Energy savings Waste management 12. Resource management Business integrity Our priority Societal challenges Sustainability programmes Through 'Business integrity', we seek to Safety and well-being 13. Workplace safety conduct our business with transparency 14. Employee health and well-being and accountability, respecting labour Business ethics 15. Good business conduct and human rights. Value-chain impacts and business partner conduct 16. Responsible business partner programme Information security and cyberattacks 17. Information and cyber security Customer satisfaction 18. Customer experience Responsible tax 19. Responsible tax practices Data privacy 20. Personal data protection of our SDG contribution was made on an inOur main positive SDG contribution is conand biodiversity (SDG 14 on protecting maternal and qualitative basis. In 2018, we took nected to our core business activities that rine and coastal ecosystems). part in a pilot project by Trucost that sought increase the share of green energy in the to quantify SDG impact in a way that encourglobal energy mix (SDG 7) and help tackle We continue to detail which specific unages benchmarking between companies. climate change (SDG 13). As a consequence derlying targets we work with under each of our investments in green energy, we programme. In our programme status on The Trucost analysis reaffirms that the vast also contribute substantially to economic pages 43-44, you can find our more detailed majority of our profits are generated by SDGgrowth (SDG 8). reporting on the SDGs. related activities, especially offshore wind. Programmes that minimise potential negBuilding on the Trucost analysis, we ative impacts on the achievement of the distinguish between our sustainability SDGs focus on growing our green energy programmes that make a positive contriportfolio in a sustainable way and ensuring bution to the SDGs and programmes that business integrity. The programmes include minimise potential negative impacts on the e.g. sustainability of biomass (SDG 15 on SDGs for the first time in our reporting. promoting sustainable forest management) 9 A world that runs entirely on green energy Ørsted Green leadership Green energy share Carbon intensity of power and heat generation % Ørsted g CO2e/kWh 100 600 500 80 400 60 300 40 200 20 100 Ørsted 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 Ørsted’s targets for green energy share Ørsted's carbon intensity of energy generation IPCC's recommended targets for a 1.5°C pathway The International Energy Agency's 2°C scenario for greenhouse gas reductions * IPCC concludes that a rapid build-out of renewable energy before 2030 makes it possible to limit global warming to 1.5°C without any reliance on carbon capture and storage (CCS). In this scenario, nuclear energy continues to constitute a significant part of the global energy mix towards 2050. Sustainability report 2018 A world that runs entirely on green energy 10 Pursuing a greener and more prosperous world A world that runs entirely on capacity. This is a game changer that will wide. Consequently, we will have reduced green energy will be among be a key driver in the global green energy our carbon intensity by 98% in comparison revolution. with 2006, making us essentially carthe key battles that need to bon-free in our energy generation. be won in the global fight The benefits of a green world are many against climate change and its There are many benefits from creating a We have a carbon emissions reduction many potential devastating world that runs entirely on green energy. target that puts us 27 years ahead of effects. Creating a world on It stimulates economic growth not just in the necessary reduction trajectory of the green energy will fuel the green the energy sector but also in other secenergy sector. The trajectory is determined tors. Increased low-carbon employment is by the 2°C temperature rise scenario, economy, increase energy projected to lead to an overall net gain of established by leading climate scientists in independence and access to 37 million jobs globally by 2030, accordthe Science-Based Target initiative and the energy across the globe. We ing to the 2018 New Climate Economy International Energy Agency. There is curhave many of the solutions report by The Global Commission on the rently no trajectory determined for a 1.5ºC to get there. But we need Economy and Climate. scenario, but it is clear that our current tarto radically accelerate the get will continue to be well within the limits A world on green energy will spur social for the energy sector to stay below 1.5ºC. transformation of the world’s development where it is needed the most. energy systems. The almost one billion people who do not Through the following four programmes have access to electricity today would be at the core of our business, we help create able to enjoy the advantages of light at a world that runs entirely on green energy: The green energy transformation is not the flick of a switch, refrigerated food, and happening nearly fast enough. Today, heating or cooling. It will help clean up 1. Green leadership only 12% of global energy consumption the planet with significant health benefits. We increase our share of green energy comes from renewables, according to According to the International Renewable generation to reduce our carbon emissions, the International Energy Agency. Staying Energy Agency, it is estimated that we can we align with international frameworks below a 1.5°C increase in global warming save up to four million lives per year if we on climate, and we run awareness-raising requires an almost completely deca­r­­­bo­ double the share of renewables by 2030 in initiatives on climate among youths. nised energy consumption, which today is comparison with today. the cause of approx 75% of global carbon 2. Deployment of wind power emissions. Taking leadership on green energy We deploy onshore and offshore wind We want to help create a world that runs farms as one the world’s largest green For the energy sector, this means that the entirely on green energy by transforming energy developers. renewable share of global power generthe global energy systems from black to ation must increase from 24% in 2018 to green. A decade ago, we set out to first 3. Greener power stations 60% by 2030, according to the IPCC. This transform ourselves. We convert our coaland gas-fired must rise to 70-85% by 2050. Also, we power stations to sustainable biomass. need to phase out coal by 2050. Since then, we have been on a massive journey to transform from an energy 4. Integration of green energy Wind and solar will play a key role in a company based on fossil fuels to a global We deploy new technologies and optimise green energy system. The deployment of leader in renewable energy. Today, 75% our solutions to help balance variable these technologies at scale has brought of our energy generation is green and in energy generation and consumption. down the cost for new-built capacity to a 2025, we aim to reach 99%. By then, we level which in many markets is below the will generate enough green energy to See programme descriptions in pages cost of new-built fossil fuel and nuclear power more than 30 million people world19-20. 11 A world that runs entirely on green energy Ørsted Accelerating the global green energy transformation At Ørsted, we want to help accelerate the transformation away from fossil fuels to green energy. In 2018, we have increased our build-out targets for offshore wind to 15GW by 2025, enough to power more than 30 million people. We have strengthened our presence in the US, where states on the East Coast have set ambitious new green energy targets. The world needs to urgently transform from People powered with green energy black to green energy. We want to help accelerate this transformation and realise (million) the global potential of green energy. In 2018, we set new targets for our green energy build-out that continues at an increasing pace. By 2025, we target 15GW of installed offshore wind, which is enough to power more than 30 million people. This is an increase on our previous target of 11-12GW. >50 We also expanded the scope of our green energy solutions to include onshore wind, solar and storage. As a result, we have set a target for 2030 that comprises all our green energy-generating assets, namely offshore wind, onshore wind, solar PV, and biomassfired power stations. Our target is 30GW, which is enough to power more than 50 million people. Realising our green energy targets depends on our ability to bring offshore wind to >30 global markets. Offshore wind is the fastest growing energy technology globally today. Now, countries outside Europe see an opportunity to make offshore wind a key technology in the transformation of their >12 energy systems from black to green. This will reduce their dependence on fossil fuels and benefit the climate. Bringing offshore wind to new markets poses new challenges. Among the most import5.6GW 15GW 30GW ant is the establishment of an offshore wind Offshore wind capacity Offshore wind capacity Total green energy capacity supply chain in a short space of time. This is the case in the United States, for instance. 2018 2025 target 2030 target Sustainability report 2018 A world that runs entirely on green energy 12 954MW 800,000 Awarded capacity People powered, by 2023 Helping bring offshore wind to the US In the US, most of the energy generation US East Coast. These states have already domestic suppliers and specialised comes from fossil fuels. But highly committed to build in total more than marine transport, supporting jobs in ports populated states on the US East Coast, 10GW of offshore wind capacity by 2030. and manufacturing. such as Massachusetts, New Jersey, and This is an ambitious target that we want to New York, are shifting away from fossil help the states meet. Many fishermen are active in and around fuels by setting ambitious renewable the sites that have been designated for energy targets. Unleashing the offshore wind offshore wind. It is essential that our potential in the US offshore wind farms do not impact the Offshore wind can help meet these Building offshore wind in untested markets livelihood of the fishermen and that we goals. The East Coast has favourable poses a number of challenges for us, can have a good mutual understanding. wind conditions and water depths, including how to help establish local making offshore wind a particularly ideal supply chains, support training of skilled As the first offshore wind company, we technology to deploy. We want to help the labour to work on our offshore wind have partnered with The Responsible East Coast states meet their targets. projects, and promote friendly cohabitation Offshore Development Alliance (RODA). with fishing and local communities that The aim of our partnership is to improve We have been in the US since 2015 and depend on the sea for their livelihoods. communication with the commercial in 2018, we further strengthened our US fishing industry. Through a joint industry activities. By acquiring Deepwater Wind, We rely on skilled labour to construct task force, we explore improved we have created a leading US offshore and operate our wind farms, but today approaches to project siting, design and wind platform. very few people outside Europe have operations. We also have fishermen experience working with offshore wind onboard survey vessels when we do site Deepwater Wind has a promising farms. To help build expertise and investigations, so they can serve as a portfolio of projects along the US East develop training courses for offshore liaison between the fishing industry and Coast. The company developed the wind, we have established memoranda our surveying activities. Block Island wind farm, the first and, so of understanding with universities and far, only operational offshore wind farm technical colleges in the states where The US has great potential in offshore wind in the US. With Deepwater Wind, we we are active, and we are committed as well as a strong manufacturing history have secured the rights to build 954MW to working with these organisations to and a well-established labour base. We offshore wind across projects on the US develop vocational training programmes. want to help unlock this potential and East Coast by 2023 – enough to provide make offshore wind an important part of power to 800,000 people. By merging For many states, offshore wind is not the nation’s diverse and flexible energy Deepwater Wind’s development portfolio just a source of green energy, it also portfolio. with Ørsted’s existing portfolio, we now translates into jobs and economic have the potential to build over 7GW of growth. And as large infrastructure offshore wind across seven states on the projects, they require a network of 13 A world that runs entirely on green energy Ørsted Our investments in green energy bring tangible benefits to society Accelerating the transformation from black to green energy requires significant investments, and the investments bring tangible value to the societies that benefit from them. At Ørsted, our investments have helped power millions of people with green energy, fight climate change by displacing energy derived from fossil fuels with green energy, and boost economic growth and job creation. Since our first offshore wind farm was Over the past decade, we and our partners to DKK 200 billion in green energy. As inaugurated in 1991, we have built 29 wind have invested approx DKK 165 billion in the global leader in offshore wind, we farms with a total capacity of more than green energy. 90% of these investments will continue to invest 75-85% in building 5.6GW. We have three large offshore wind have gone into offshore wind, but we have more green energy from offshore wind. farms under construction, which will add also invested large amounts in phasing out But we also aim to spend 15-20% of our another 3.4GW of installed capacity to coal from our power stations by converting investments on realising the potential our portfolio. Each wind farm we build is a them to sustainable biomass. of our new onshore business. Finally, we step in transforming our societies to run on aim to spend up to 5% on our Customer green energy. Towards 2025, we expect to invest up Solutions and Bioenergy businesses. Our green energy investments DKK 165 2009–2018 billion 90% Offshore 4% Onshore 6% Bioenergy Sustainability report 2018 A world that runs entirely on green energy 14 Our green energy investment programme 75-85% 2019–2025 Offshore DKK 200 billion 0-5% 15-20% Bioenergy and Customer Solutions Onshore Offshore wind helps avoid carbon emissions 5.6GW The offshore wind farms we have built can provide green power to people conventional fossil-based energy generation. Annually, generation of power Installed capacity whose energy use has previously been from our offshore wind farms help avoid based on coal or natural gas. The green the emission of 6.3 million tonnes of energy we provide displaces the carbon CO2, equal to taking more than three emissions that would have come from million cars off the streets every year. 6.3 million tonnes >3 million Avoided CO2 emissions Cars * In our ESG performance report 2018, page 17, we elaborate on the methodology for calculating avoided emissions. Please read more in the section 'Accounting policies'. 15 A world that runs entirely on green energy Ørsted Creating socio-economic impact from offshore wind 9GW 180,000 Offshore wind capacity Job years installed and under construction created Our investments in wind farms have contributed to the regeneration of we have installed in combination with bring thousands of new job the Humber region, leading to several the offshore wind farms we have under positive economic impacts, such as more construction create 180,000 job years in opportunities in our value and jobs, higher salaries, and local economic their lifetimes. This job effect corresponds supply chain to the benefit of growth. to employing more than 21% of the popu­ countries and local communities. lation of Amsterdam for a year or ensuring A wind farm is a complex engineering 5,000 average European citizens life-long project. It requires labour during the employment. In addition to building green energy, labour-intensive construction and politicians, regulators and other installation of the wind farm, operation Our analysis only covers jobs directly stakeholders expect us to create local and maintenance, and decommissioning, associated with construction, operation jobs and economic growth. A good case is as well as in the supply chain manu­ and maintenance, and decommissioning in the UK, where we have built 3.2GW of facturing its components. Based on the of our offshore wind farms. The job benefits offshore wind capacity, making the country International Renewable Energy Agency’s from our wind farms go beyond creating our largest market. Here, we have helped (IRENA) method, we have estimated the jobs in the wind industry. Every wind farm take advantage of the favourable wind job creation from our own and joint partner we build supports several thousand jobs in and seabed conditions and built the world’s investments in offshore wind. Our analysis local communities. The jobs are typically in largest offshore wind farms off the east shows that the offshore wind farms hotels, restaurants and other services. and west coasts of the country. The Humber region in the eastern UK is a great example of the impact that the offshore wind industry can have on local communities. The region has become one Case: the Humber region of the most important global hubs for offshore wind. In 2016, one of our largest suppliers, Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy, invested approx DKK 1.4 billion to open a large wind turbine blade factory here. The combined investments in the Humber region One of our UK operations and factory and extension of a dock in the mainte­nance bases is in the harbour of the city of Hull are estimated by Humber region, where one of our largest suppliers, Siemens Gamesa, Siemens Gamesa to create up to 1,000 jobs, has opened a blade production with additional jobs during construction facility. Our offshore wind activities and in the supply chain. In just a few years, have contributed to economic our offshore wind activities in the region growth in the region. Sustainability report 2018 A world that runs entirely on green energy 16 17 A world that runs entirely on green energy Ørsted Waste is a resource for green energy Increasing waste levels is a major global challenge. At Ørsted, we see waste as a valuable resource where the organic content can be turned into biogas, which is a green alternative to natural gas. We invest in developing waste solutions that can help utilise the many resources that waste has. Global waste levels are increasing and are Insufficient waste management is a missed challenge requires companies across indusexpected to reach 2.59 billion tonnes in opportunity to extract materials and entries to work together and find solutions 2030, up 29% from 2016 which is the latest ergy from the valuable resources in waste. to reduce their environmental footprint. At publicly available data. Today, merely 19% At Ørsted, we see waste from households Ørsted, we see great value in supporting of all waste is recycled or composted. The and industrial production as an important these collaborative partnerships, and we rest is incinerated (11%), sent to landfills resource. are pleased to join forces with other corpo(37%) or openly dumped (33%). rate leaders. Partnering with industry leaders to With increasing waste levels also come fuel a circular economy Inaugurated in 2018, the Kalundborg indusincreasing carbon emissions from incineraIndustrial production accounts for about trial biogas plant in Denmark is our first tion and methane emissions from the de21% of global waste. To dump or dispose co-owned industrial waste plant. 'Kalundcay of organic waste. In total, solid waste the waste in landfills is – frankly – a waste. borg Bioenergi' handles industrial waste is estimated to account for about 5% of There is an apparent and growing chalfrom two large corporate partners, Novo global greenhouse gas emissions. lenge in making the best use of waste. This Nordisk and Novozymes. The plant can 'Kalundborg Bioenergi' converts industrial waste to biogas 'Kalundborg Bioenergi' handles The plant converts industrial waste from insulin the industrial waste into (Novo Nordisk) and enzyme enough biogas to cover (Novozymes) production. the heating needs of 300,000 5,000 Tonnes of waste (annually) Households (annually) Industrial waste 'Kalundborg Bioenergi' Heating Sustainability report 2018 A world that runs entirely on green energy 18 Converting household waste with Renescience, Northwich (UK) The plant is expected to The produced biogas has The processed recyclable have the potential to treat the potential to generate material can potentially waste from electricity for enable recovery of enough metals to produce 110,000 9,500 3,700 UK households (annually) Households (annually) Cars (annually) Household waste Renescience Electricity Recyclable materials annually process 300,000 tonnes of waste Making energy of household waste material will enable recovery of enough from insulin and enzyme production and with Renescience metals to produce 3,700 cars every year. produce enough biogas to cover the gas The concept behind our waste treatment consumption of 5,000 households. technology, Renescience, is to prevent We expect the Northwich plant to be household waste from going to landfills. commissioned during first half of 2019, The plant converts residual waste from Renescience has the potential to convert which is a significant delay compared insulin and enzyme production to biogas, household waste into biogas and recyclato our initial expectations. The plant which is sent into the gas grid, replacing ble materials, such as metals and plastics, has confirmed that the core enzymatic natural gas. The remaining nutrients from through enzyme treatment and mechanisorting process in large scale works as the conversion process is regenerated into cal sorting. expected, but we have had to undertake fertiliser for farmland. a programme to enhance flexibility and We are constructing a full-scale plant redundancy in the sorting hall. We are 'Kalundborg Bioenergi' is a recent example based on the Renescience technology in currently finalising the optimisation of the of how businesses can work together to Northwich, UK. Once operational, it has plant’s mechanical operations. find innovative ways of solving environthe potential to treat 120,000 tonnes of mental challenges. The process of turning waste annually, equal to the waste from waste into biogas and using the residuals approx 110,000 UK households. Metals as fertiliser in farmland (thus replacing and plastics are sold for recycling, and artificial fertiliser) makes our biogas plant a the generated biogas can be used either contributor to a circular economy. The soluas a substitute for natural gas to gene­ tion is scalable and a good fit for comparate green power or as transport fuel. nies and countries dealing with significant The produced biogas will generate 5MW industrial biowaste that is not being put electricity, enough to power up to 9,500 to use. households, and the processed recyclable 19 A world that runs entirely on green energy Ørsted Programme overview 1. Green leadership 2. Deployment of wind power Societal Climate action Green energy deployment challenge Overshooting 1.5˚C can happen as early as 2030, and Global energy demand grew above its 10-year average in 2017 awareness and behavioural changes at every level of and is expected to grow 30% by 2040. The world’s energy society will be needed to limit climate change. Within this generation from renewables has never been higher than context, corporate action to halt emissions is imperative. today, but the world’s fossil fuel generation also remains high. Demonstrating resiliency towards potentially irreversible We need to accelerate the deployment of scalable, reliable, effects of climate change is also becoming more important. and affordable green energy. Our approach We take action by increasing the green share of our energy We aim to grow deployment of offshore wind in Europe, US generation, reducing our carbon emissions 27 years faster than and Asia Pacific, and onshore wind in US. We want to ensure science demands, working to disclose climate-related risks an active footprint in development, construction, operation and opportunities, and by contributing to awareness-raising on and ownership of wind farms. climate change. Our progress • We have raised our target for the green share of our energy • We have raised our target for deployment of offshore wind generation to reach 99% by 2025. In 2018, we reached 75%. by 2025 to 15GW. • We have reduced the carbon intensity of our generation by • In 2018, we commisioned three new offshore wind farms, 72% since 2006, and aim to reach a 98% reduction by 2025. Race Bank, Walney Extension and Borkum Riffgrund 2. • We have begun implementing the Task Force on Climate• We will help provide green energy from offshore and related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) guidelines to further onshore wind to the US through the acquisitions of improve our disclosure of climate-related risks and Deepwater Wind and Lincoln Clean Energy (LCE). opportunities. See our annual report. • We are also increasing our capacity in Europe. In 2018, • In partnership with WWF Denmark, we held a Climate Safari we were awarded the rights to build 1.1GW in Germany. in Denmark, the first of several initiatives to raise climate • In Taiwan, we have been awarded 1.8GW during 2018, awareness among youths. but due to uncertainties about the power purchasing • We have incorporated climate performance KPIs in the agreement, we have decided to pause and revisit all our compensation schemes of our Executive Board. Taiwanese project activities. Our governance Accountability lies with our CEO. Accountability lies with the EVPs of Offshore and Onshore respectively. International • Paris Agreement • Paris Agreement frameworks • Greenhouse Gas Protocol & Science-Based Target Initiative of reference • TCFD Guidelines Actions to Develop programme to address carbon emissions across our Perform life-cycle assessment to support management, miti­ga­ become future-fit value chain. tion, and disclosure of environmental risks across value chain. SDG We contribute to SDG 13 by taking action to fight climate We contribute to increasing the share of renewable energy in contribution change. the global energy mix in line with SDG 7.2. Indicators Green energy share (%) Installed offshore wind capacity (GW) and targets ≥99 75 64 17 15 2006 2017 2018 2025 target Carbon intensity (g CO2e/kWh) 462 5.6 3.9 151 131 ≤10 2006 2017 2018 2025 target 2017 2018 2025 target Sustainability report 2018 A world that runs entirely on green energy 20 Programme overview 3. Greener power stations 4. Integration of green energy Societal Green energy deployment Green energy integration and flexibility challenge Coal is the most carbon-emitting fossil fuel, and after two A world that runs entirely on green energy will rely on a power years of decline, global consumption has increased again. grid that can balance fluctuating energy generation and The use of coal must be stopped to effectively limit climate consumption patterns. Battery storage and integrated green change. solutions can help balance supply and demand. Our approach We phase out the use of coal in our operations through We promote flexibility of supply and consumption through conversion of our combined heat and power (CHP) stations in integrated energy solutions combining various technologies, Denmark from coal and gas to sustainable biomass. including onshore wind, battery storage and solar PV. Our progress • Five of our seven CHP stations have already been converted • We have completed our first stand-alone battery energy from coal or gas to sustainable biomass. storage system, the 20MW Carnegie Road, near Liverpool, • Conversion of Asnæs CHP station is in progress and UK. expected to be completed by the end of 2019. • 679,000 smart meters installed and in use by our • The seventh CHP station, located in Esbjerg, will be closed distribution customers. by the end of 2022 as we have not been able to secure an agreement to convert the CHP station to run on sustainable biomass. • In 2018, our coal consumption increased in comparison with 2017, as we experienced high demand for power in periods where we were not generating heat. In these periods, fossil fuels are normally used. Our governance Accountability lies with the EVP of Bioenergy. Accountability lies with the EVP of Onshore and the EVP of Customer Solutions. International • Paris Agreement • Paris Agreement frameworks of reference Actions to Successfully phase out coal by 2023. Manage and mitigate supply-chain impacts in the production of become future-fit battery storage. SDG We contribute to increasing the share of renewable energy in We promote greater adoption of clean and environmentally contribution the global energy mix in line with SDG 7.2. sound technologies in line with SDG 9.4. Indicators Coal consumption (million tonnes) Smart meters installed (number) and targets 6.2 1.1 1.2 0 >1 million 2006 2017 2018 2023 target Coal share of fuels in thermal heat and power generation (%) 679,000 66 38 30 183,000 0 2006 2017 2018 2023 target 2017 2018 2020 target 21 Enabling sustainable growth Ørsted Sustainability report 2018 Enabling sustainable growth 22 Meeting the future’s green energy needs in a sustainable manner A world on green energy will ­ otential negative impact on the natup 7. Protecting biodiversity limit climate change, improve ral environment. Through environmental impact assessments and support to scientific-­ human health, and create In the communities where we operate, knowledge building, we strive to economic growth. But the we strive to meet the needs and expecavoid and reduce negative impacts on pursuit of this vision must tations of the local population. We want biodiversity. take place sustainably. We to be appreciated as a positive influence work to address sustainability on society, and in each project, we liaise 8. Employee development challenges that can impact with community representatives to We seek to attract, develop and retain understand their expectations, provide the best talents to stay competitive our ability to build more green transparency on our activities and find as we continue our journey to expand energy. common solutions. renewable energy. Our ability to grow sustainably depends 9. Employee satisfaction At Ørsted, we want to go beyond on the people we employ. We want our We want our employees to thrive by ensuring that the energy we generate is company to reflect the societies we creating a good and healthy working sustainable. We also want to build and recruit talent from, and we see diversity environment. operate our energy-generating assets in and inclusion as a crucial part of attracta sustainable manner. Our transformaing, developing, and retaining all talent. 10. Employee diversity and inclusion tion from black to green energy means We work to create equal opportunities that we are facing different challenges We promote sustainable environmental for everyone and a culture for inclusivetoday than we did a decade ago. practices in our operations by improving ness in the workplace. energy efficiency and the reuse and We are ending the use of coal, the most recycling of waste. 11. Energy savings carbon-emitting source of energy, by We improve the energy efficiency of our 2023. We are replacing it with biomass, We aim to turn sustainability challenges own businesses and cover 100% of our and we must document that the biointo enablers for our vision by addressing energy consumption with green certifimass we use is sustainable, so that it the challenges through the following cates. significantly reduces carbon emissions eight sustainability programmes: compared with coal and gas. 12. Resource management 5. Sourcing of certified sustainable We aim to improve the reuse and recyWhen we build offshore wind farms, biomass cling of waste generated in our operathere are unique ecosystems of flora We document the sustainability of the tions and reduce hazardous waste. and fauna that we must protect. It is a forest-based biomass we source. fundamental step in the preparations for See programme descriptions in pages construction that we conduct environ6. Local communities 27-30. mental impact assessments identifying Through dialogue we engage with areas of concern and allowing for early stakeholders in local communities to fine-tuning of our projects to avoid address local needs and expectations. 23 Enabling sustainable growth Ørsted Replacing fossil fuels with sustainable biomass When sourced sustainably, biomass reduces carbon emissions significantly compared to coal and gas. Sustainable biomass is therefore a crucial stepping stone towards a fossil fuel-free society. Coal is the most carbon-emitting source of from forest and wood-working residues as To ensure that the biomass we source is energy. We have decided to phase out coal well as damaged timber, and timber with sustainable, we rely on globally recognised completely by 2023 and are converting our no other commercial use. The forest owner independent third-party certification combined heat and power stations to run maximises the commercial value of the schemes, such as FSC®, SBP, and PEFC, on sustainable biomass. forest by selling as much timber as possible which ensure replanting as well as protecto sawmills to be used in construction tion of biodiversity and areas worthy of Our seven largest combined heat and and furniture. The residues which have no preservation. power stations cover a fourth of Denmark’s commercial value in the timber market are demand for district heating. The power stathen used to produce climate-friendly heat Goal to reach 100% certified biomass tions are all originally built for fossil fuels, and power. In 2018, 83% of the sustainable biomass but we convert them to run on sustainable sourced by Ørsted was certified by a third biomass to phase out fossil fuels at our Burning coal releases carbon dioxide party in accordance with the Danish Induspower stations. So far, five power station that has been geologically stored in the try Agreement, compared to 72% in 2017. units have been converted, enabling us to ground for millions of years. Contrary to We have a target of sourcing only certified reduce our coal consumption by 82% since coal, biomass is part of the short natural sustainable biomass by 2020. To achieve 2006. One of our remaining two coalcarbon cycle where plants and trees this goal, we work with our suppliers and fired power stations is being converted to naturally grow, mature, die, and decomtheir sub-suppliers to get all non-certified sustainable biomass, and the other will pose. When using sustainable biomass sustainable supply chains certified. be closed by the end of 2022 to meet our as energy instead of coal, we therefore objective of fully exiting coal by 2023. reduce the total amount of carbon emisIn addition to the benefit of third-party sions released to the atmosphere. The assurance, we hope that our demand for Using residues of wood to produce emissions will never exceed the amount certified biomass, together with increased green heat and power of carbon dioxide absorbed by the trees demand for certified wood from other inThe biomass we source is a residue from during their growth. Therefore, compared dustries, such as construction and furniture, the production of high-value timber, mainly to coal, no additional carbon dioxide is will result in more forests being certified sourced from Europe. It is primarily made released to the atmosphere. and sustainably managed. Supply chain for sustainable forest-based biomass Sawmill Use of high-value timber Sustainable forestry Residues Wood pellet plant Biomass for heat and power Sustainability report 2018 Enabling sustainable growth 24 When 2,000 trees are planted in an area comparable to a football field, only approx 15-20% will remain for final harvesting to be sold off to a sawmill after 60 to 70 years. The rest of the trees are harvested during regular thinning of the forest – improving the quality by removing rotten, diseased and damaged wood. A large portion of the thinning volume won’t have the quality needed to produce timber and furniture, but it can be used as biomass. The residual wood would decompose and release carbon dioxide if it wasn’t used for a commercial purpose, such as biomass. Michael Gehlert Head Forester, Forest Owner Association – Western Jutland, Denmark 25 Enabling sustainable growth Ørsted Taking care of the rich diversity of life on Earth All energy infrastructure is built in a unique environment where we have to do our utmost to protect the natural ecosystems. It is key that we manage environmental impacts on these ecosystems well to obtain permission to build wind farms. Ørsted has a responsibility to protect the derstand how the gulls interact with our UK change mitigation, especially among the rich diversity of life as an integral part of West Coast wind farms. The impact of wind younger generations. As our first joint the way we operate. Our expertise and farms on particular bird species is likely to initiative, we invited schools and families to reputation for protecting biodiversity be influenced by the altitude at which they a ‘climate safari’ with a view to inspire them help us win new contracts, deliver green fly, notably in relation to wind turbine blade as to how they can help build the green energy and ensure that wildlife can coexist height. The tags used for this study will help society of tomorrow. alongside our developments. to inform at what height this species fly and how they behave around wind turbines over In 2019, we will extend our partnership In 2018, we adopted a new offshore wind a three-year period from 2016 to 2018. We activities with WWF. The plan is two-fold: biodiversity policy. The policy is built on our will use the study to further our understandto provide school classes with educational long-term experience and understanding of ing of collision risk and incorporate into material on fighting climate change; and the biodiversity challenges we face when future collision risk modelling. to initiate a study on the consequences of building offshore wind farms. The core climate change on nature and biodiversity philosophy of the policy is prevention before WWF and Ørsted join forces to mitigate in Denmark. WWF will also continue to mitigation wherever possible. This approach impacts of climate change advise Ørsted on our sustainability strategy remains key as we enter new markets. As the first energy company globally, we and biodiversity initiatives. entered into a partnership with the enviPutting principles into practice ronmental organisation World Wide Fund As our business diversifies and expands to On all of our offshore wind projects, we for Nature (WWF), Denmark, in 2018. Our new markets, we will continue to build on work closely with regulators, NGOs and new biodiversity policy was launched in our knowledge on protecting the home other stakeholders to ensure the protection collaboration with WWF. The collaboration of all the fascinating creatures we come and enhancement of biodiversity. We also includes raising awareness on climate across on planet Earth. have a global team of 60 environmental experts who work on our projects to study and monitor the potential impacts on the Tagging lesser black-backed gulls flora and fauna both offshore and on land. from colonies in the Northwest of By engaging with our stakeholders, we England helps us understand how the determine the best measures and actions gulls behave around our wind turbines. required to protect the seabed, fish, marine mammals, seabirds, and plants. In new and emerging offshore wind markets, we have a responsibility to develop local know-how and insight by sharing our experience with the governments and stakeholders we partner with. Our funding of a study tagging lesser blackØrsted backed gulls from colonies in the Northwest Fighting climate of England is a good example. Finalised in change 2018, we undertook this study to further unSustainability report 2018 Enabling sustainable growth 26 A workplace where everyone feels acknowledged With a global footprint and 6,000 employees, we need a diverse workforce to pursue our vision of a world that runs entirely on green energy. To attract the best talent, we put great efforts into ensuring an inclusive culture for all our employees. A cornerstone of our organisational culture is the belief in equal rights and opportuni­ ties. To us, being respected and valued for who you are is a fundamental right. Therefore, we want to ensure an inclusive workplace for all employees. A prerequisite for creating a culture that embraces diversity is that our employees feel acknowledged and included, regardless talent that are able to progress into senior Diversity beyond gender of their individual background and personal leadership positions. Based on an individual Diversity and inclusion matters are multicharacteristics. As a company, we want our assessment of the female managers’ experifaceted by nature and include many other workforce to reflect the societies we are ence, potential, and opportunities, we lay important aspects beyond gender. In 2018, part of — including gender, sexual orientaout a detailed development plan to help Ørsted sponsored Copenhagen Pride to tion, cultural background, and age. them move towards the next step in their reinforce our support for diversity beyond career. gender and to celebrate diversity and incluSpotlight on future female leaders sion within our company. There are areas within the diversity agenda where we – and society at large – need We also joined more than 200 of the world’s to improve. Among the most apparent is largest companies expressing support for the gender balance in our workforce, not least UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business. in senior roles. The standards put focus on businesses’ responsibility to secure LGBTI (lesbian, gay, Women make up one third of all employees As a company, we have bisexual, trans, and intersex) rights and fight in Ørsted, but the gender balance is not a moral obligation to discrimination against LGBTI people. reflected in the top management layers. Today, only 10% of our Top 100 leaders are make sure that everyone These initiatives reaffirm our commitment female. We are determined to improve this feels acknowledged for to secure a work environment characterised number. Our goal is for 22% of the top 100 who they are, regardless by an inclusive and recognising mindset to be women by 2023. and respect for all people. Not just because of who they love or how it’s the only right thing to do, but because In 2018, we introduced a new ‘Female they identify themselves. we rely on highly motivated and talented Spotlight’ initiative for experienced female people to stay competitive and challenge managers. The initiative aims to identify Hanne Blume the status quo. This is even more important and further develop female leadership Chief Human Resources Officer, Ørsted as our company expands globally. 27 Enabling sustainable growth Ørsted Programme overview 5. Sourcing of certified 6. Local communities sustainable biomass Societal Biomass sustainability Local content and community impacts challenge Forest-based biomass as an energy source can play a As renewable energy is built out, communities expect significant role in reducing carbon emissions. However, only companies to support local job creation and socio-economic sustainable biomass can ensure significant carbon reductions development. Some expectations are included in local content and, therefore, the use of biomass is subject to high scrutiny requirements while others are defined through stakeholder levels. In Denmark, an industry agreement includes voluntary engagement. Meeting these expectations is becoming commitments for the sourcing of biomass and requires increasingly important for being granted the right to build companies to document sustainability and supply chain energy infrastructure, securing operating permits and thus emissions for biomass. accelerating decarbonisation. Our approach We document the sustainability and supply-chain emissions Open dialogue with communities is a natural part of how of the forest-based biomass, i.e. wood pellets and wood chips, we do business across our markets. Our business footprint used for our CHP stations through independent third-party varies in every market and so do needs and expectations of certification and in accordance with the Danish Industry local communities. We engage in dialogue with workers, local Agreement. We communicate openly on the sustainability of governments, community leaders, and NGOs, and we work our biomass. with stakeholder expectations in various ways, including local development funds, training programmes, and local supplier development. Our progress • 83% of the forest-based woody biomass we sourced this • In the UK, community development funds and local content year has been certified as sustainable in accordance with plans are in place and under execution. Read the UK CSR the Danish Industry Agreement. report. • Our sourcing of certified sustainable forest-based woody • In the US, proactive engagement with relevant trade unions biomass has grown over the years, and we are on track to and local communities is taking place. reach our goal of 100% certified biomass sourced by 2020. • We have committed to sourcing only FSC®-certified forestbased biomass from countries with a score of 50 or less in the Transparency International Corruption Perception Index to further ensure the sustainability of biomass from less mature countries. Our governance The EVP of Bioenergy oversees our policy and programme for The EVPs of Offshore and Onshore oversee progress, while sustainable biomass sourcing. Implementation lies with the Fuels responsibility for day-to-day dialogue and engagement with & Logistics department. Compliance with the Danish Industry stakeholders lies with the respective public and regulatory Agreement is ensured through an annual compliance audit by an affairs teams in the markets where we operate. independent auditor. International • EU Renewable Energy Directive • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights frameworks of reference Actions to Ensure our programme for sustainable biomass sourcing Quantify socio-economic contribution of our green energy become future-fit meets the requirements for forest-based biomass in the EU development projects. Renewable Energy Directive II when it enters into force in 2021. SDG We minimise our negative impacts on forests and seek to We minimise our negative impacts on local communities contribution promote sustainable forest management in line with SDG 15.2. and support their economic, social, and environmental development in line with SDG 11.A. Indicators Certified renewable woody biomass sourced (%) Local community engagement and targets 100 83 72 Collaboration Economic with community activity and jobs Dialogue organisations 2017 2018 2020 target 2018 Sustainability report 2018 Enabling sustainable growth 28 Programme overview 7. Protecting biodiversity 8. Employee development Societal Biodiversity impacts Talent development challenge Biodiversity makes life on Earth possible through clean water, The transition to a low-carbon economy will require new oxygen, and food. Protection of biodiversity is necessary talents. To stay competitive, businesses will need to attract and to ensure the survival of our own species. Without proper retain talented employees. environmental impact assessments (EIA), consultation of the relevant stakeholders and management systems, wind farms may have a negative impact on ecosystems. Our approach We conduct a full assessment of potential environmental We seek to attract, develop, and retain the best talent to impacts of our offshore wind farms, including biodiversity. support the growth of our business through initiatives, such as: This assessment is in line with the principles of avoiding • a graduate programme offering candidates a steep learning and reducing biodiversity impacts throughout wind farm curve development, construction, and operation. Throughout these • substantial investment in learning and development for all stages, we conduct stakeholder engagement and provide employees, including through the Ørsted Academy support for scientific knowledge-building and R&D. • tailored high-potential programmes for early-career talents, senior specialists, managers, and executives. Our progress • In 2018, we have published our offshore wind biodiversity • We have launched a new talent strategy to further improve policy summarising Ørsted’s practices globally. our ability to attract and develop talent. • We have also begun reporting on the protected areas or • We have introduced two new high-potential programmes, areas of high biodiversity value and the number of species for senior specialists and for female leaders with executive in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) potential. ‘Red-List of Threatened Species’ in areas with Ørsted’s offshore wind • We have introduced a new forward-looking development operations. See sections 2.13 and 2.14 of our ESG performance report. dialogue to support talent development. • We conduct studies to understand how species interact • The results of our People Matter survey show that we with our wind farms. In the US, we have implemented compare favourably with our peers with regards to specific measures to protect the endangered North Atlantic how satisfied our employees are with their learning and right whale, including vessel speed restrictions. development opportunities. Our governance The EVP of EPC & QHSE in Offshore oversees progress. Group Executive Management oversees implementation of Responsibility for implementation of Ørsted’s biodiversity the talent strategy which is spearheaded by the People & policy for offshore wind lies with country managers in the Development department. Our employees’ satisfaction with relevant markets. A global department of environment and learning and development is measured through the annual permitting specialists supports markets and projects. People Matter survey. International • The EU Birds and Habitats Directive frameworks • Convention on Biological Diversity of reference • OSPAR Convention • UN 2020 Aichi Biodiversity Targets Actions to Develop priorities and targets for continuous improvement in Continuously improve our ability to attract, develop, and retain become future-fit line with Ørsted’s biodiversity policy commitments and as we the best talent to underpin our competitiveness in the market and expand internationally. become the preferred employer within the green energy industry. SDG We minimise our negative impacts on marine and coastal contribution ecosystems in line with SDG 14.2, and natural habitats and biodiversity in line with SDG 15.5. Indicators Red-list species in areas with Ørsted offshore Employee learning and development (index 0-100) and targets operations (number) 76 76 80 Critically Near endangered Endangered Vulnerable threatened 0 1 1 1 2018 2017 2018 2020 target 29 Enabling sustainable growth Ørsted Programme overview 9. Employee satisfaction 10. Employee diversity and inclusion Societal Talent development Diversity and equal opportunity challenge Satisfied and motivated employees thrive in their workplaces Non-discrimination and equal opportunities enable people and contribute to a collaborative and inclusive working to realise their full potential. In the workplace, respect for environment. Higher retention rates of talented employees diversity through an inclusive culture that accepts and values mean that organisations are in a better position to drive differences has the potential to unlock innovative thinking positive change and transition into the low-carbon economy. while driving business growth. Our approach We want our employees to thrive and support our business We work to ensure equal opportunities and promote diversity growth. Therefore, we measure their satisfaction and and inclusion through transparent recruitment processes, motivation through an annual employee engagement survey. talent development with focus on female leadership, Among other areas, we measure the perception of Ørsted as unconscious bias training, and a corporate culture for a workplace, daily workload and tasks, and relationships with inclusiveness. managers. The responses are actively used to identify actions at department and company level to improve our workplace. Our progress • We maintain a score of 76 in terms of overall satisfaction • The percentage of women in our Leadership Conference, and motivation. This gives us a position as best in class which comprises our top-100 managers, is not progressing among similar companies which have a score of 70 on satisfactorily and has gone down from last year. Nevertheless, average. we remain focused in our ambition with new initiatives, • The result demonstrates high levels of motivation and including the ‘Female Spotlight Initiative’ and quotas for commitment, meaning that we are on track to reach our women participation in all Ørsted’s talent programmes. target of 77 by 2020. • With the aid of Equal Approach, Ørsted UK is reviewing • 95% of our employees have responded to the 2018 survey, recruitment and onboarding processes with the aim to providing a very strong foundation for the results. improve inclusiveness. • We have adopted the UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business. Our governance Group Executive Management and Ørsted’s Cooperation The SVP for People & Development oversees our policies Committee, comprising employee representatives, oversee the for diversity and inclusion and for women in management. aggregated results of the Employee satisfaction survey. The Implementation is led by the People & Development team. People & Development department is responsible for conducting the survey and ensuring that follow-up actions are carried out. International • UN Convention on Discrimination Against Women frameworks • UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business of reference Actions to Maintaining a high level of satisfaction and motivation among Continue efforts to create an inclusive workplace through become future-fit employees will be key to retaining and attracting talents in a communication campaigns, training, and mindset, to support market where the demand for talented employees is on the rise. Ørsted’s internationalisation strategy. SDG We seek to ensure women’s full and effective participation contribution and equal opportunities at the workplace for all in line with SDG 5.5. Indicators Employee satisfaction and motivation Women in Leadership Conference (%) and targets (index 0-100) 22 13 10 Women in middle management (%) 76 76 77 25 25 30 2017 2018 2020 target 2017 2018 2023 target Sustainability report 2018 Enabling sustainable growth 30 Programme overview 11. Energy savings 12. Resource management Societal Energy efficiency Waste management challenge Global energy needs could grow by 30% between today The global consumption of materials continues to increase, and 2040, according to the IEA World Energy Outlook. and the UN estimates that by 2050, we could need almost Given current and expected growth in global energy three planets to produce enough water, food, and energy for demand, deployment and integration of green energy must humans. By reducing waste, reusing and recycling materials, be supported by energy efficiency improvements across organisations can contribute to a more efficient use of natural industries and societies. resources and further lower carbon emissions. Our approach We aim to continuously increase the energy efficiency of our We aim to decrease company impacts on the environment own activities. In January 2018, we formalised our work in a and associated resource management costs by improving the Climate Partnership committing Ørsted to 100% renewable reuse and recycling of waste generated in our operations and electricity consumption and energy savings of 15GWh realised reducing hazardous waste rates. Our main waste is generated by 2022. through operations and maintenance activities at our CHP stations and wind farm sites as well as at our corporate office facilities. Our progress • This year, 100% of our electricity consumption comes from • We have aligned monitoring and reporting of waste and renewable sources, except for power sourced for electric water with the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines. boilers generating heat. This has been achieved through • Business units are in the process of defining site-specific the purchase of renewable certificates. The vast majority of initiatives to reduce hazardous waste. certificates are from Ørsted’s offshore wind farms. • The significant reduction in the proportion of waste for recycling in 2018 is due to the fact that the 2017 data included more than 12,000 tonnes of non-hazardous waste for recycling from the decommissioning of the world's first offshore wind farm, Vindeby. See Section 2.12 in our ESG performance report for more information. • All our operational sites work in accordance with ISO 14001. Our governance The QHSE Committee oversees the progress of our energy The QHSE Committee oversees waste management efficiency initiatives. Business units are responsible for throughout Ørsted. The implementation is carried out by the implementing energy efficiency initiatives and targets with the business units with support from the QHSE department. support of our energy consultants. International • Paris Agreement • The EU Directive on waste 2008/98 frameworks • EU Energy Efficiency Directive 2012/27/EU of reference Actions to Expand energy-efficiency programme to include fuel Develop plan for decommissioning of large wind farms. become future-fit consumed in company vehicles and vessels. SDG We contribute to SDG 7.3 on improving global rates of energy We minimise our negative impacts on waste generation contribution efficiency through our energy-efficiency initiatives. through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse in line with SDG 12.5. Indicators Share of power purchased for own operations Total amount of recycled waste (%) and targets covered by green energy (%) (excl. oil-containing wastewater) 100 92 77 2018 2017 2018 31 Business integrity Ørsted Sustainability report 2018 Business integrity 32 Addressing societal expectations with integrity In a nutshell, integrity is about comply with national laws, such as the 14. Employee health and well-being doing the right thing, even when Danish Financial Statements Act on We promote personal health and wellCSR and the UK Bribery and Modern being at the workplace and encou­rage no one is watching. At Ørsted, Slavery Acts. employees to take action for we want to operate responsibly, a balanced life. safely and with integrity. This It is a priority for us to work with our includes upholding high ethical more than 22,000 suppliers on their 15. Good business conduct standards in our business environmental, social, and ethical We have zero-tolerance for bribery, practices by being accountable impacts. We base our collaboration on corruption, and other types of frau­dulent a code of conduct that expresses our behaviour. and transparent, respecting expectations towards them. Entering human rights and having a solid new markets outside Europe, where the 16. Responsible business partner governance. offshore wind industry is still limited, programme demands a focus on building a strong We manage and mitigate social, ethical, and healthy supply chain that operates and environmental risks in our supply Integrity is one of the defining principles in accordance with our code of conduct. chain and encourage suppliers to opefor our company. It’s about striking a rate responsibly. balance between not only doing things Another important area for us is cyber right but also doing the right thing. Every security, because the impact of a 17. Information and cyber security day, we deal with complex challenges successful cyberattack can be very We protect the integrity of our energy facing our company and the societies damaging. information and infrastructure. where we do business. We want to address these challenges and meet the We want our employees to thrive both 18. Customer experience expectations of our stakeholders with at work and away from work. In the last We ensure that customers are satisfied integrity. few years, we have increased our focus with the services we provide. on how we can support our employees Acting responsibly, locally and globally in creating a meaningful balance that, 19. Responsible tax practices As a company, we work towards a rather than draining their energy, gives We are transparent in our approach sustainable future in close collaboration them energy. to tax and communicate about our tax with partners across our value chain. policy and tax payments in a timely, Business integrity is key for us. Our We have eight sustainability program­ transparent, and relevant manner. approach to business integrity is mes that advance business integrity in guided by the UN Global Compact, of our operations: 20. Personal data protection which we have been a signatory for 13 We respect the privacy of employees, years. We are furthermore guided by 13. Workplace safety suppliers, and residential customers international conventions, principles We strive to create a safe workplace by protecting their personal data in and guidelines, such as the UN Guiding for employees and contractors alike accordance with the GDPR. Principles on Business and Human and seek to embed safety in business Rights and the OECD Guidelines for processes by moving from reactive to See programme descriptions in pages Multinational Enterprises. We also proactive safety indicators. 35-38. 33 Business integrity Ørsted Cyber security is a social responsibility Energy is vital for all parts of society, but increasingly, critical infrastructure such as energy supply is threatened by cyber espionage, cybercrime and hackers. At Ørsted, we operate vital infrastructure and have a strong responsibility to protect our IT systems. Our societies are highly dependent on operate, which potentially increases the a reliable energy supply to power and vulnerability of these systems. heat our homes and run our businesses. Ørsted owns and runs interconnected We strengthen cyber security infrastructure, allowing us to generate measures We have a strong heat and power for millions of people We have mitigated our risks with a number responsibility to across geographies. That is why we have of measures, including building stronger safeguard our supply a responsibility to ensure that we do defence mechanisms and educating all everything we can to protect our systems. Ørsted employees in cyber awareness. of energy by protecting Ørsted from unauthorised Keeping infrastructure networks and We continuously test our systems to detect access to information energy supply safe and secure is vital potential security breaches. We have also for daily life and national security. scaled up our level of surveillance and systems. International energy companies and governance by mapping out threats and suppliers have been targets of cybercrime patterns and anticipate scenarios that in recent years, and we know that could eventually target us. In this way, cyberattacks happen every day and cyberattacks can be detected and avoided, that they can paralyse businesses across or their effects contained or minimised. industries. As we expand our activities into Our protection system blocks thousands of new markets further from home, our ability malicious emails every year. to protect our energy infrastructure and associated IT systems become ever more We know that human error accounts important for us, our partners, and the for most of the cyber security breaches people dependent on the reliability of our in companies worldwide. In 2018, we services. launched an internal ‘2 feet principle’ security information campaign aimed at Big data, advanced analytics, and helping employees to identify and prevent artificial intelligence are among the cyberattacks. This forms part of our developments we explore to better utilise dedicated and continuous efforts to ensure our energy assets. But these technological a high information security level and to advancements also add to the inter­ build a strong information security mindset Gerda Retbøll-Bauer connectivity of the systems we own and with our employees. Chief Information Security Officer, Ørsted Sustainability report 2018 Business integrity 34 A healthy working life in a busy world Workplace flexibility only works if it goes both ways, but I think our company does great at respecting the fact that we as employees have real lives after work. Benedikta Hedegaard-Knudsen Lead Innovation Associate, Ørsted Offshore In a modern fast-paced culture, Our annual employee evaluations show A new mental health policy it is crucial to actively support that our employee satisfaction and moAn important aspect of securing a good tivation are above the benchmark in all psychological working environment is employees to counter stress and countries where we operate. We want to to proactively try to alleviate or ideally burnout. In 2018, we introduced maintain this position. In 2018, the evaluprevent stress. Stress occurs when people our Ørsted Life programme ation however also showed that 9.7% of experience a mental overload over an – a new, holistic effort to support employees responded that they feel stress extended period of time. To us, one of the the health and well-being of our ‘quite much’ or ‘much’. There will always most important ways of preventing stress is employees. be peak periods, but we need to take this to ensure good management. Therefore, we seriously, which is one of the reasons why train managers in preventing stress among we have intensified our focus on the mental employees. Striking the right balance between working health of our employees. and time off is an evolving priority in modWe will introduce a new global policy on ern working life. Our brains are challenged To us, workplace flexibility is closely linked mental health, aimed at promoting well-beby the demands of modern working lives, with the physical and mental health of our ing as well as preventing and dealing with which increases the risk of mental overload, employees. This is the reasoning behind our stress and other mental health issues. With leading to stress and anxiety. Everyone new health and well-being programme, our new policy, we aim to actively promote needs a break from work, but it can be a Ørsted Life. With Ørsted Life, we aim to well-being with our employees instead challenge as IT and smartphones allow us apply a holistic perspective on our employof waiting for potential imbalances to be to work anywhere at any time. ees’ health and well-being and their needs. visible. Through a range of offers and services As an employer, we have an obligation to like free access to fitness facilities, healthy We believe that our continuous focus on support our employees in staying mentally food in our canteens and access to a stress preventing mental overload is key to ensure fit. Not only because our success is depenhotline, we invest in our employees to give long and sustainable working lives for all dent on their motivation and well-being, them the best possible opportunities to our employees. but most importantly because we want our take care of themselves, both physically and employees to thrive both at and after work. mentally. 35 Business integrity Ørsted Programme overview 13. Workplace safety 14. Employee health & well-being Societal Safety and well-being Health and well-being challenge The safety of employees has a direct influence on personal Personal health and well-being are fundamental for a and family well-being and is a core responsibility for balanced life. They are also key enablers of good performance businesses. A workplace environment that protects and values at work as they increase employee engagement and personal safety can positively influence the welfare of the cohesiveness. communities where the business operates. Our approach We strive to create a safe workplace for employees and We believe that well-being and job satisfaction are very contractors alike and achieve a best-in-class safety standard. important to live a fulfilling life. Through the Ørsted Life We aim to sustain and mature a high safety performance by programme, employees can access offers, services, and moving from reactive to proactive safety indicators, working initiatives for mental and physical well-being, including: on par with contractors to incorporate learnings, promoting professionally managed fitness centres; inspirational podcasts a unified safety approach across all our business units, and on sleep, stress and collaboration at work, and options for embedding safety in relevant business processes. physical and mentally-active breaks throughout the workday. Finally, we conduct stress-prevention training for all managers and provide stress-prevention services to our employees. Our progress • We have launched a new QHSE culture programme to • We have launched Ørsted Life, our new health and wellfurther underpin our safety culture. being programme with four pillars: we move, we focus, we • Our TRIR performance of 4.7 in 2018 is very good. Actually, share, and we care. it corresponds to our employees or contractors working • More than 2,500 of our total of 6,000 employees have more than 100 years in average without experiencing made use of readily accessible services, including stressincidents requiring medical treatment or resulting in prevention training and fitness-wellness facilities. absence. • More than 2,000 of our 4,500 office-based employees have • All our operational sites operate in accordance with OHSAS participated in initiatives promoting physical activity. 18001. Our governance The QHSE Committee is accountable for our safety policy. The Health Strategy Steering Committee, including the SVPs Responsibility for the overall direction and implementation of of People & Development and Stakeholder Relations and the our safety management systems lies with the Health & Safety VP of QHSE, oversees Ørsted Life. Implementation is led by the management team. People & Development team. International • OHSAS 18001 • WHO ‘Healthy workplaces: a model for action’ frameworks • ISO 45001 of reference Actions to Maintain a high-performance safety culture and a record of Continue inspiring employees to take care of themselves and become future-fit zero fatalities and no life-changing events as we grow the size one another to keep a balanced life in a dynamic working of our operations and enter into less mature markets. environment. SDG We contribute to SDG 8.8 on promoting safe working We contribute to SDG 3.4 on promoting mental health and contribution environments with our safety approach and targets. well-being through Ørsted Life. Indicators Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) We have launched Ørsted Life in 2018 and targets (per million hours worked) 6.4 4.7 3.3 2017 2018 2020 target Sustainability report 2018 Business integrity 36 Programme overview 15. Good business conduct 16. Responsible business partner programme Societal Business ethics Value-chain impacts and business partner conduct challenge Corruption, bribery, and other fraudulent practices can impact Risks related to corruption, labour, human rights, and the society by destabilising institutions and reducing transparency environment are present in supply chains. Managing these risks and opportunities for citizens. In most cases, these practices is key for companies that strive to operate responsibly, and are illegal, they undermine fair competition and create an by encouraging suppliers to follow international standards, unequal playing field for companies. supply-chain decisions can positively impact livelihoods and communities. Our approach We have zero-tolerance for bribery, corruption, and other We apply a risk-based approach to assess our 22,000 suppliers fraudulent behaviour. We promote compliance through due and business partners. The approach is twofold and consists diligence, employee training and channels to report misconduct, of a know-your-counterparty (KYC) screening of suppliers and including a Whistleblower hotline. When entering new markets, business partners in mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures, and we conduct country-risk assessments, due diligence on business other partnerships, as well as code of conduct (CoC) assessments partners, and follow applicable rules for engagement with of high-risk suppliers, if relevant in connection with on-site visits. authorities. In our dialogue with political stakeholders, we Through KYC screenings, we perform background checks on follow the principles in our stakeholder engagement policy to corruption and trade sanctions. Through CoC assessments, we support the development of stable and transparent institutions assess the performance of high-risk suppliers within environment, conducive of the transition to a low-carbon economy. human and labour rights, and anti-corruption. Our progress • We have reviewed our good business conduct programme • We have updated our CoC to align with Wind Europe to support Ørsted’s further globalisation. Industry Principles for supply chain sustainability, • Following the review, we are developing measures to the Maritime Labour Convention, and new internal strengthen the programme. commitments to diversity. • We are conducting compliance workshops on site in the • We have strengthened our processes in high-risk markets new markets we enter. and will engage earlier with suppliers to incorporate improvement plans in contracts. • We have screened 248 suppliers and through 24 assessments identified 93 improvement actions. A key improvement relates to the strengthening of supplier monitoring of sub-contractor com­ pliance with labour rights for temporary and migrant workers. Our governance The Board of Directors is accountable for our policy on good The RPP Steering Committee is accountable for our CoC for business conduct. Our in-house legal department is overall business partners. The Responsible Business Partner team responsible for implementation of the policy and programme is responsible for implementation in close cooperation with with support from compliance officers in the business units. procurement functions. International • Anti-corruption regulation in the countries where we • UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights frameworks operate, including the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign • ILO Core Conventions of reference Corrupt Practices Act. • UK Modern Slavery Act and UK Bribery Act • Wind Europe Industry Principles • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Actions to Continue to strengthen our good business conduct Improve commodity risk-assessments and ensure that new become future-fit programme to support Ørsted with its internationalisation suppliers meet our CoC standards when we enter new strategy. markets and invest in new technologies with higher social, environmental, and ethical risks. SDG We strive to contribute to tackling corruption and bribery in We seek to minimise potential negative impacts on labour contribution line with SDG 16.5, through due diligence, training compliance, rights, modern slavery, safety, corruption, and bribery in our and misconduct reporting. supply chains in line with SDGs 8.7, 8.8, and 16.5. Indicators Substantiated whistleblower cases (number) Business partner due diligence (numbers) and targets 3 2 KYC CoC screenings sceenings 268 248 CoC opened improvement Number of these cases transferred to the police actions 93 CoC 0 1 assessments 24 2017 2018 2018 37 Business integrity Ørsted Programme overview 17. Information and cyber 18. Customer experience security Societal Information security and cyberattacks Customer satisfaction challenge The integrity of energy infrastructure is highly critical to Customers around the world are becoming increasingly aware national security, the economy, and daily life. With the of the impact of climate change and as a result, there is a increased digitilisation of the economy, cyberattacks have growing demand for green energy. Energy providers must been on the rise and generating headlines, with several offer good customer service while adapting to the growing reported cyberattacks in Europe and the US. customer demand for green energy. Our approach We aim to provide information and infrastructure protection We lead the smart-energy transformation in Danish homes in line with their criticality and following applicable regulation by empowering residential customers to interact with where we operate. Our approach is designed to build a their energy consumption through smart meters, data, and mature security set-up that follows a risk-based approach and actionable advice. We guarantee that all Danish residential creates employee awareness. With growing security threats, customers are exclusively powered by green energy at no collaboration to provide faster and more efficient responses extra cost by procuring green certificates equal to the amount to cyber-security incidents is becoming more important. As of power sold. Moreover, we aim to increase the digital share such, we are part of FIRST, an international confederation of of service interactions and simplify the digital experience of trusted computer-incident response teams from government, our customers. commercial and educational organisations cooperating on incident prevention and response. Our progress • We have experienced no major information security • We have migrated almost all of our residential electricity incidents this year. customers to a new platform supporting full digitalisation • We have established Ørsted’s Information Security Board to of the customer base. oversee progress with our initiatives. • Following the system migration, customers have • We have launched a group-wide information security experienced service delays, and this has impacted the culture and awareness programme to increase employee customer satisfaction level this year, compared to last year. engagement on protecting our information assets. Nevertheless, customers already operating on the new • In Denmark, the authorities have performed an audit of our platform are experiencing more user-friendly services, and information security systems. We are preparing for a similar we expect this will have a positive impact on customer audit in the UK. satisfaction levels going forward. • We have become members of FIRST. Our governance The Information Security Board oversees progress with the The EVP for Customer Solutions oversees progress. information security project portfolio and strategy. Day-today implementation is headed by Ørsted’s Chief Information Security Officer. International • International standards, including ISF Framework, NIST and frameworks IEC 62443 of reference • Regulatory requirements in the countries where we operate, including EU NIS and NERC CIP. Actions to Ørsted’s way of innovating is increasingly linked to digital Continue the digitalisation of our business to enhance and become future-fit technologies. With a landscape that constantly sees new forms of simplify the customer experience. As announced, we are threats, we must enable digital innovation by continuing to include investigating options to exit our Danish power distribution, information security from the very first step of project innovation. residential sales, and city light businesses. SDG contribution Indicators No major IT security incidents in 2018 Customer satisfaction (Index 1-100) and targets B2C 74 ≥80 Power distribution 81 ≥80 B2B 75 ≥80 2018 2020 target Sustainability report 2018 Business integrity 38 Programme overview 19. Responsible tax practices 20. Personal data protection Societal Responsible tax Data privacy challenge Transparent and accountable tax systems are at the root Personal data protection is a fundamental human right of prosperous and fair societies. They help fund education, and important for trust in today’s digital economy. When healthcare, and other public services essential for the businesses handle personal data responsibly, they build trust fulfilment of basic social needs. By paying tax and supporting and confidence with stakeholders. In 2018, the EU General international tax reform, companies contribute to the Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) came into force with high development of the societies where they operate, the creation standards for European privacy protection. of well-functioning tax systems, and stable institutions conducive to business. Our approach We aim to comply with the letter of the law and with the We respect the privacy of employees, suppliers, and underlying intent to ensure that we pay the right amount residential customers by protecting their personal data of tax, on time, in the countries where we operate. We only in line with the GDPR. We have a policy commitment to use business structures driven by commercial considerations, privacy, including a governance structure to oversee its aligned with our business activities, and which have genuine implementation. We perform risk assessment and gap analysis substance. We pay tax on profits according to where value of our data management, and have procedures for handling of is created within normal commercial activity. We use data breaches, IT security protection, and mandatory training. tax incentives where they apply, in areas where we have commercial substance. We seek to develop cooperative relationships with authorities and engage in dialogue with stakeholders to support effective tax systems. Our progress • We have developed a new corporate tax policy, approved • We have developed a new General Privacy Policy in line by the Board of Directors, following the recent international with the GDPR, approved by the Board of Directors. tax reform and our journey to become a more global • We have introduced mandatory training for approx 2,000 company. employees with leadership responsibility or working directly • We have also submitted our country-by-country reporting with personal data in functions such as customer service, to Danish authorities in accordance with applicable laws. HR, and IT. • And, as of 2018, we are publishing country-specific • IT security measures have been implemented to strengthen information about our tax positions in our annual report, processing and deletion of personal data in line with the GDPR. section 5.2. • Privacy notices have been distributed to residential customers and employees. Our governance The Board of Directors is accountable for the tax policy. The The Board of Directors is accountable for our General Privacy responsibility for the tax risk management lies with the CFO Policy. Our in-house legal department is responsible for and is overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee. The daily implementation of the policy with support from compliance management of tax affairs is handled by a centralised global officers in the business units and Information Security. tax team. International • OECD BEPS • The EU General data protection regulation (GDPR) frameworks • EU Directive on country-by-country reporting of reference • Applicable local and international tax legislation Actions to Continue focus on ensuring compliance and transparency in Continue efforts to strengthen our personal data protection become future-fit line with our corporate policy, and on meeting the increasing programme in line with the GDPR. reporting requirements. SDG We seek to contribute to effective, accountable, and contribution transparent institutions at all levels, in line with SDG 16.6 Indicators Global income tax paid in 2018 (DKK billion) We have aligned practices with the GDPR in 2018 and targets 3.4 2018 39 Ørsted Advancing sustainability performance through materiality At Ørsted, we translate relevant societal We conduct a materiality assessment every year to identify and challenges into programmes that address address the changing expectations and societal challenges that can impact our business, and we define programmes and actions stakeholder expectations and drive sustainability for those deemed relevant. performance. The societal challenges that stakeholders expect us to address We live in a world of shifting cultural norms, new technologies, can be environmental, social or economic. Climate action, green and environmental change that influence the expectations that energy deployment, as well as safety and well-being are examples stakeholders have of businesses. of societal challenges material to our business. Materiality steps 1. Understand societal challenges We learn about stakeholder expectations of how we should address societal challenges through dialogue and engagement with various stakeholder groups. Political stakeholders and authorities We engage with political stakeholders and authorities to support the development of conditions conducive to the deployment of green energy. Local communities We interact with local community stakeholders throughout the development, construction and operation of our wind farms. For example, in connection with the Hornsea projects 1 and 2 in the UK, we support the growth of local skills and education through community-benefit funds and our Environment & Consents team engages with environmental groups and bodies in a collaborative way. Sustainability report 2018 40 Employees Our sustainability efforts are a collaborative effort. Our employees are motivated by our vision and also expect that we reduce their environmental footprint at work, including impacts from air travel, road transportation, food, and plastics. Investors CO2 We discuss our environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance with investors and use ESG ratings to drive sustainability performance. For example, the CDP helps drive some of the climate actions supporting our Green leadership programme, including our carbon reduction target and our new effort to tie executive compensation to our climate targets on green energy share and carbon emission. NGOs and multi-stakeholder networks We are in continuous dialogue with NGOs, for instance to discuss biomass sustainability and human rights. We also engage in partnerships, as we do with the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Denmark, and participate in multi-stakeholder networks such as the Danish Ethical Trading Initiative (DIEH). Within the DIEH network, we talk with NGOs, unions and peers about our responsible business partner programme. 2. Assess relevance of societal challenges Understanding stakeholder expectations enables us to assess how societal challenges are relevant to our business. We identify the most material societal challenges by assessing their importance to stakeholders and their relevance to our business. 3. Address relevant societal challenges through programmes Our 20 sustainability programmes address the most relevant societal challenges and are organised according to three priorities. The programmes include performance measures and targets where relevant, and a governance structure to ensure accountability, implementation, and reporting. An overview of the programmes is included on pages 43-44. 41 Ørsted International frameworks To help design our programmes, we seek practical guidance in international frameworks, which are based on the expectations that stakeholders have institutionalised over time. We use the SDGs and the UN Global Compact principles as overarching frameworks for our sustainability work. We also use specific frameworks for given societal challenges. For example, we are aligning our practices and reporting on climaterelated risks and opportunities with the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Guidelines. Labour and human rights in Ørsted Societal challenges not addressed through programmes Labour and human rights are addressed through the relevant In our assessment of societal challenges, we deem some less programmes covering the highest risk areas in our operations and material for addressing and reporting through programmes in our supply chains as identified in the risk screenings we conduct, latest sustainability report. in 2017. For employees, this includes workplace safety, employee diversity and inclusion, and employee well-being. For customers, As a large amount of our water consumption is linked to our we run our personal data protection programme, and for local combined heat and power stations in Denmark, in areas with a communities and suppliers, we apply our local communities and low-baseline water stress, we do not include programme reporting responsible business partner programmes. This means that we do on this specific matter in our sustainability report. Our separate not report on labour and human rights separately. ESG performance report includes indicators on water withdrawal and wastewater discharge. Air emissions of NOX and SO2 also occur primarily in our combined heat and power stations in Denmark, where we comply with detailed regulatory requirements regarding emissions and reporting. Our ESG performance report includes data on air emissions. Overseeing sustainability The Board of Directors is the highest accountable body, providing strategic guidance, approving performance strategic targets, and overseeing the progress of these targets. Group Executive Management is through governance responsible for the sustainability programmes with support from the Sustainability Committee and other appointed committees. In addition, every sustainability programme has its own governance, including a programme owner that oversees performance, and a responsible person for day-to-day implementation of policies, targets, as well as monitoring and reporting on progress. Sustainability report 2018 42 Sustainability governance Board of Directors Provides strategic guidance on sustainability in Ørsted. Approves the sustainability targets in our corporate strategy and monitors that they are achieved. Approves Sustainability Commitment, top societal challenges, and annual sustainability report. Chair Thomas Thune Andersen, Chairman of the Board Audit and Risk Committee A board committee appointed by the Board of Directors. Internal Audit Supervises the integrity of the sustainability reporting, the presentation hereof in the annual financial Verifies the effectiveness of our report, and the internal control system for non-financial data. Approves ESG performance report. sustainability programmes with particular focus on compliance and validity of data. Chair Benny Loft, member of the Board Group Executive Management Accountable for sustainability programmes. Approves annual sustainability materiality assessment and portfolio of sustainability programmes. Assigns accountability for programmes at executive level. Proposes the sustainability programme targets that are part of our corporate strategy to the Board and monitors that they are achieved. Chair Henrik Poulsen, CEO Compliance Committee Sustainability Committee QHSE Committee Appointed by the Group Executive Appointed by the Group Executive Appointed by the Group Executive Management. Management. Management. Monitors our compliance with laws, rules, Oversees that we live up to our Oversees that we live up to our quality, standards, and internal codes of conduct Sustainability Commitment; reviews health, safety, and environment (QHSE) that apply to our business areas, including sustainability strategy and monitors strategic priorities; reviews QHSE strategy within sustainability. performance of sustainability programmes; and monitors performance of QHSE approves the ESG data set. programmes. Chair Chair Chair Henrik Poulsen, CEO Marianne Wiinholt, CFO Anders Lindberg, EVP Business units and shared functions Conduct annual sustainability materiality assessment, establish sustainability programmes, and ensure progress by: • developing policies and procedures • setting targets • defining and measuring performance indicators • managing and reporting on performance. 43 Ørsted Sustainability programmes and SDG contributions In addition to our key contribution to SDGs 7, 8 and 13, we have an impact on more SDGs through our sustainability programmes SDG SDG contribution Societal challenge 13 We contribute to SDG 13 by taking action to fight climate change. Climate action A world that runs 7.2 We contribute to increasing the share of renewable energy in the global energy Green energy deployment entirely mix in line with SDG 7.2. on green 7.2 We contribute to increasing the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix in line with SDG 7.2. Green energy deployment energy 9.4 We promote greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies in Green energy integration and flexibility line with SDG 9.4. 15.2 We minimise our negative impacts on forests and seek to promote sustainable Biomass sustainability Enabling forest management in line with SDG 15.2. sustainable 11.A We minimise our negative impacts on local communities and support their Local content and community impacts growth economic, social, and environmental development in line with SDG 11.A. 14.2 We minimise our negative impacts on marine and coastal ecosystems in line with Biodiversity impacts 15.5 SDG 14.2, and natural habitats and biodiversity in line with SDG 15.5. Talent development Talent development 5.5 We seek to ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities Diversity and equal opportunity at the workplace in line with SDG 5.5. 7.3 We contribute to SDG 7.3 on improving global rates of energy efficiency through Energy efficiency our energy efficiency initiatives. 12.5 We minimise our negative impacts on waste generation through prevention, Waste management reduction, recycling, and reuse in line with SDG 12.5. 8.8 We contribute to SDG 8.8 on promoting safe working environments. Safety and well-being Business integrity 3.4 We contribute to SDG 3.4 on promoting mental health and well-being through Ørsted Life. Health and well-being 16.5 We strive to contribute to tackling corruption and bribery, in line with SDG 16.5, Business ethics through due diligence, compliance training and misconduct reporting. 8.8 We seek to minimise potential negative impacts on labour rights, modern slavery, Value-chain impacts and business 8.7 safety, corruption, and bribery in our supply chains in line with SDGs 8.7, 8.8, and partner conduct 16.5 16.5. Information security and cyberattacks Customer satisfaction 16.6 We seek to contribute to effective, accountable, and transparent institutions at all Responsible tax levels, in line with SDG 16.6. Data privacy Sustainability report 2018 44 The table shows how our sustainability programmes impact the SDGs while addressing the societal challenges that are most relevant to our business. The programmes are organised according to our sustainability priorities and include an overview of indicators and current performance. Ørsted programme Indicator Target Performance 2018 1. Green leadership Green energy share (%) 2025 target: ≥99 75 Carbon intensity (g CO2e/kWh) 2025 target: ≤10 131 2. Deployment of wind power Installed offshore wind capacity (GW) 2025 target: 15 5.6 3. Greener power stations Coal consumption (million tonnes) 2023 target: 0 1.2 Coal share of fuels in thermal heat and power generation (%) 2023 target: 0 38 4. Integration of green energy Smart meters installed (number) 2020 target: >1 million 679,000 5. Sourcing of certified biomass Certified renewable woody biomass sourced (%) 2020 target: 100 83 6. Local communities We engage in dialogue with stakeholders and invest in community development funds and skill-based initiatives. 7. Protecting biodiversity Red-list species in areas with Ørsted offshore operations (numbers): Critically endangered 0 Endangered 1 Vulnerable 1 Near threatened 1 8. Employee development Employee learning and development (index 0-100) 2020 target: 80 76 9. Employee satisfaction Employee satisfaction (Index 0-100) 2020 target: 77 76 10. Employee diversity and inclusion Women in leadership positions: Leadership Conference (%) 2023 target: 22 10 Middle management (%) 2023 target: 30 25 11. Energy savings Share of power purchased for own operations covered by green energy (%) 2018 target: 100 100 12. Resource management Total amount of waste (excl. oil-containing wastewater) 77 for recycling (%) 13. Workplace safety Total recordable injury rate (TRIR) (per million hours worked) 2025 target: 3.3 4.7 14. Employee health and well-being We have launched Ørsted Life in 2018. 15. Good business conduct Substantiated Whistleblower cases (number) 2 Cases transferred to the police (number) 1 16. Responsible business partner KYC screenings (number) 268 programme (RPP) CoC sceenings (number) 248 CoC assessments (number) 24 CoC opened improvement actions (number) 93 17. Information and cyber security No major IT incidents in 2018. 18. Customer experience Customer satisfaction (index 1-100) B2C 2020 target: ≥80 74 Power distribution 2020 target: ≥80 75 B2B 2020 target: ≥80 81 19. Responsible tax practices Global income tax paid, total (DKK billion) 3.367 20. Personal data protection We have aligned our practices with the GDPR in 2018. 45 Ørsted Our business model Key resources Financial Energy Natural Human Innovative Stakeholder capital assets resources resources culture engagement We finance our We invest in scalable, We rely on natural We rely on a highly We continuously We depend on invest­ments through innovative green resources, such as skilled workforce to innovate our energy constructive cash flow from technologies and construction mate­ operate our business. solutions to drive relations with our operations, debt solutions. rials, biomass, as competitiveness. key stakeholders to and divestment of well as locations ensure supportive ownership interests. with attractive wind framework conditions speeds and seabed for our business. conditions. Core activities Capital employed 79% Offshore Capital employed 13% of which assets we plan to • Develops, owns, builds, and operates offshore wind farms exit 10% (three wind farms are under construction). • Owns 26 offshore wind farms of which we operate 22. • Development projects in progress in the UK, Germany, Taiwan, and the US. • Additional new markets being developed in Asia and Europe. Capital employed 6% Onshore • Develops, owns, builds, and operates onshore wind farms. • Three wind farms in operation, one wind farm is under Customer construction and two wind farms are under development. Solutions • Explore opportunities within solar PV and storage. • Route-to-market services for our own and partners' power, gas and certificates. • Manage the Group’s energy Capital employed 2% Bioenergy portfolio risks. • Converts our CHP stations to biomass. • Owns and operates ten CHP stations in Denmark. • Enters into long-term contracts with our heat customers and sells power to the market. • Explores opportunities within biogas and waste recycling. Value created Society Customers Employees Shareholder return We address profound societal challenges We fulfil our customers’ We are committed to a We create value for our by developing green, independent, and energy needs through green, sustainable working life and shareholders in the form of economically viable energy systems that innovative, and efficient keep a constant focus on being competitive total returns. reduce green­-house gas emissions, and energy solutions. a great and safe place to work stimulate local growth and job creation. with motivated and satisfied employees. Sustainability report 2018 46 Sustainability ratings and memberships UN Global Compact Ørsted is participant in the UN Global Compact and member of the Action Platform ‘Pathways to Low-Carbon and Resilient Development’. Through the action platform, we aim to serve as a catalyst for enhancing action to meet the ambitions of the Paris Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Memberships Rating agencies Elaboration and benchmark Score Ørsted is the most sustainable energy-generating company in No. 4 the world and fourth most sustainable company overall in the Global 100 index. MSCI Ørsted awarded highest possible rating. AAA Improved our C rating from 2017 to a B on a scale from B Dto A. Our CDP report is publicly available, and we aim to achieve an A rating. Ørsted rated as ‘leader’, placed in the 97th percentile 83 among 188 utilities and no. 1 among direct peers. Ørsted has been awarded a gold medal as a recognition 77 of being among the top 5% performers evaluated by EcoVadis. Ørsted ranked as no. 1 ‘Sector leader’ in diversified 84 infrastructure with highest possible 5-star rating. Ørsted in top 3 of 104 electric utilities and awarded B ‘prime’ status. Ørsted
