COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 Artmatrix Technology Sdn Bhd Contents Statement from Chief Executive Officer 2 Human Rights 3 Labour 4 Environment 6 Anti-Corruption 10 About Artmatrix Incorporated since June 2005, Artmatrix Technology Sdn Bhd focuses on R&D, branding, marketing, distribution and project management of system furniture whereas Artmatrix Manufacturing Sdn Bhd (its 100% owned subsidiary) focuses on complete manufacturing support. Within a short period of time, the company has successfully penetrated the local, regional and global markets and set its business footprint in 22 countries across 5 continents. Today, global operations showrooms are established in metropolis of India, Dubai, Indonesia, Thailand as well as Singapore. 1 Statement from Chief Executive Officer 9th July 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Artmatrix Technology Sdn Bhd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Herbert Koh Chief Executive Officer 2 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: In Artmatrix, we acknowledge and respect the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Businesses should support UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We and respect the protection are committed to uphold the human rights of workers, and of internationally to treat them with dignity and respect. This applies to all proclaimed human rights; workers including temporary, contract and permanent and employees. In Artmatrix, we monitor our activities for human rights Principle 2: risks and impacts to identify actual and potential human make sure that they are not rights issues. Actions to manage and address human rights complicit in human rights risks are guided and carried out through dialogue and in abuses. collaboration with relevant stakeholders when necessary. To prevent human rights violations in workplace, grievance mechanism is available for employees to show their dissatisfaction towards unfair treatment, with procedures clearly written in the Employees Handbook. The complaints are reviewed in different levels until satisfactory solutions are provided. Besides, any form of inhumane treatment including any sexual abuse, mental or physical coercion and verbal abuse are strictly disallowed in the company. Disciplinary actions will be taken against those who are found guilty of convicting the abuses. During the past one year, no case was reported on the violation of human rights. Artmatrix will continue to commit to human rights principles while making sure no offense on human rights issues within the company. Sponsorship As part of our commitment towards to Quality Education, Artmatrix provided financial support for Sequence 2019, which is First University College Graduation Showcase and Painting with Pencil, Share Talk Workshop, in conjunction with Archidex 2019. This is to encourage learning process and opens up more access to affordable and quality educational platform. 3 LABOUR Principle 3: Since human capital is the company’s greatest asset, Businesses should uphold Artmatrix is putting up a fair employment policy as an the freedom of association approach to managing talents. In Artmatrix, labour and the effective practices and policies include: recognition of the right to Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining collective bargaining; Artmatrix respects our employees’ right to join, form or refrain from joining a labour union and choose collective bargaining representatives, without interference, Principle 4: discrimination, retaliation, or harassment. We are the elimination of all forms committed to bargaining in good faith with such of forced and compulsory representatives when necessary. labour; Forced Labour and Human Trafficking Artmatrix prohibits the use of all forms of forced labour and Principle 5: modern slavery as well as any form of human traffickingthe effective abolition of related activities. child labour; and Child Labour Artmatrix does not recruit child labour and condemns all Principle 6: forms of exploitation of children. “Child” in this context the elimination of means any person who has not completed his fifteenth year discrimination in respect of of age according to Act 350. We strictly adhere to Children employment and and Young Persons (Employment) Act 1966 and do not occupation. tolerate any breach of rules. Non-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment Artmatrix does not tolerate discrimination or harassment, and eliminates all forms of discriminatory practices with respect to all aspects of employment, which includes race, colour, religion, gender identity, age, social status, nationality or sexual orientation. We base employment decisions on merit, considering qualifications, skills and achievements. We adhere to Artmatrix’s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy in the areas of hiring, promotion, demotion or transfer, recruitment, discipline, layoff or termination, rate of compensation and company sponsored training. 4 Percentage of workers by age group Safe and Healthy Work Environment Artmatrix believes that safety should be of utmost importance not only to protect the welfare of employees, but also to comply with legal requirements and minimize the loss of funds and time. We are committed to provide a safe and healthy workplace for our employees and this is monitored under our ISO standard. In practising of the policies, the information is made available to all employees in our Employees Handbook regarding the probation period, remuneration, working Percentage of workers by ethnicity hours, reporting line, public holidays and leaves, medical benefit and insurance, secrecy and confidentiality which are established in accordance to Malaysian Labour Law. Besides, open door policy is practiced in the company to encourage openness and transparency with the employees. All employees are given an updated directory by Human Resource Department and are accessible to our top management via internal phone system. In our recruiting process, we employ fair practices in selecting employees by looking at their qualifications, Percentage of top management and managers based on gender experiences and capabilities for the jobs. In Artmatrix, we have multicultural talents who worked under the same roof; Male 60% all are protected with Employment Injury Scheme under government’s Social Security Organization and enjoyed the same medical benefits. For company’s events such as Annual Dinner and appreciations dinners, all employees are Female 40% invited regardless of the term of service and positions. In Artmatrix, our proportion of female to male employees and workers is 3:7, with manufacturing site dominated by male workers. On the other hand, the proportion of female to male ratio in managerial positions and top management is 2:3. For workplace accident, one case is reported in financial year 2018/2019 where the worker experienced physical injury on his thumb. Proper medical treatment was provided to the worker and investigation was carried out to identify the root cause. Safety awareness briefing was given to all relevant workers to avoid possible injury in future. 5 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: As a leading green office furniture company, Artmatrix has Businesses should support a the responsibility not only to provide solutions that help precautionary approach to clients to manage environmental risks, but also to control environmental challenges; our own ecological impact and contribute to environmental protection. In our efforts to address environmental issues, we adopted a few measures to preserve our nature as we Principle 8: believe that the well-being of society depends on a healthy undertake initiatives to environment. promote greater environmental “Recycle Every Friday” Campaign responsibility; and The recycling campaign was initiated since 2006 to encourage employees to reduce, reuse and recycle as much waste as possible. It aims to educate employees on the Principle 9: importance of recycle in order to divert useful wastes from encourage the development landfill, thereby reducing the use of virgin resources. and diffusion of Artmatrix encourages its employees to bring recyclables environmentally friendly from home to Artmatrix’s collection point every Friday and technologies. cultivates recycling attitudes in the office and production plant by providing recyclables collection facilities in both areas. The instructions for recycling which include separation at source and identification of recyclables and non-recyclables are well communicated within the company through emails and newsletters and available at the collection point. Artmatrix appointed a charity recycling agent, Xim Phou Moon to collect the recyclables once the collection point is full. From July 2018 to June 2019, the total amount of recyclables is as follows: Recyclables Amount (kg) Paper 846.0 Plastics 108.5 Aluminium 54.0 Metal 21.0 6 Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2015) Artmatrix has been certified with ISO 14001 since year 2009 by Moody’s and subsequently by Intertek. It is an international standard that specifies requirements for an effective Environmental Management System (EMS) in which the auditing by third party will be held on yearly basis. It sets out the environmental policy in Artmatrix to achieve the intended outcomes of an EMS which includes:  enhancement of environmental performance;  fulfilment of compliance obligations;  achievement of environmental objectives. To commit and comply with ISO 14001, every employee in Artmatrix is assigned to one of the EMS teams as follows: a. Management Representative (EMR) b. Document Controller (DC) c. Aspect Impact Team (AIT) d. Training & Communication Team (TCT) e. Legal Team (LT) f. Operation Control Team (OCT) g. Emergency Response Team (ERT) A clear guideline on the responsibilities and authorities of each team has set out to inform every EMS team members, and each team is expected to fulfil the basic competency requirements. Green Products We believe that the true innovations come from ideas that harmonize with nature, and it is our obligation to take into consideration of all aspects of our products on the environmental impact. We produced eco-friendly workstations and seatings which are laboratory tested against ANSI/BIFMA X7.1 standard for emission test, which verified our products to be low formaldehyde and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). 7 In Artmatrix, our products are certified with Good Environmental Choice Australia (GECA) ecolabel, MyHIJAU Mark and Singapore Green Building Products (SGBP) certificate. We have been monitoring and maintaining the Green Certificates by schedule, and renew our certificates when expired. Certificates Expiry Date Products GECA 4th July 2020 I-Mode (Eco), Simplex (Eco), Ecolabel Tri-X Plus (Eco), Trendx Pro (Eco), IF (Eco), I-Beam (Eco), E-Stilts (Eco), Xenic Chair, Xera Chair Range MyHIJAU 4th July 2020 I-Mode (Eco), Simplex (Eco), Mark Tri-X Plus (Eco), Trendx Pro (Eco), IF (Eco), I-Beam (Eco), E-Stilts (Eco), Xenic Chair, Xera Chair Range SGBP 4th February 2020 E-Stilts (Eco), Trendx Pro Certificate (Eco) Green Building Index (GBI) Certified Building Besides green products, Artmatrix also owns a green factory that advocates sustainable operation. On April 2014, we are the first office furniture manufacturer in Malaysia to be certified with Green Building Index (GBI) under Industrial New Construction (INC) category. It is another environmental accomplishment for Artmatrix for the effort of transforming a 16 years abandoned building into a Green Building. In March 2018, Artmatrix has completed its Renewal and Verification Assessment (RVA) and remain our status quo as a Certified Green Building, with Building Energy Intensity (BEI) of 82 kWh/m2.yr, indicating a 5 stars energy efficiency rating. Besides, new bicycle rack and shower facilities were installed to encourage employees to cycle to work, which could reduce carbon footprint compared to travelling by motor vehicles. 8 CleanSeas Pledge Campaign In conjunction with World Environment Day 2018 with the theme “Beat Plastic Pollution”, Artmatrix is activating a CleanSeas Pledge Campaign in the company, with the aim of raising awareness on plastic pollution issues and a call for action for all of us to come together to combat one of the great environmental challenges of our time. A CleanSeas Pledge board has been put up in the reception area, and it is used as a communication platform to bring messages and share initiatives and commitment towards combating plastic pollution. International Costal Cleanup 2018 On 22nd September 2018, Artmatrix has participated in International Coastal Cleanup at Hibiscus Walk, Lexis Hibiscus Port Dickson in conjunction with International Coastal Cleanup Day. The objective of this coastal cleanup is to raise awareness on marine debris issue and cultivate a sense of stewardship for one of our planet’s greatest natural resources. In this event, we have collected 1939.5kg of trash along the coastline and beach together with other volunteers. The trash data collected will be submitted to Ocean Conservancy for analysis to identify the sources of litter and to change the behaviors that cause pollution. 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Artmatrix is committed to uphold anti-corruption principles Businesses should work and comply with Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act against corruption in all its 2009. Any corrupt practices and embezzlement of forms, including extortion company’s funds are serious misconduct and disciplinary and bribery. actions may impose against any employee who breaches the policy as stated in our Employees Handbook. We expect all employees, officers, directors and third parties working on its behalf to refrain from engaging all form of bribery or corruption, irrespective of citizenship, domicile, or location. In Artmatrix, each top management is responsible to overlook specific departments to ensure smooth and efficient operations, as well as crosscheck each departmental performance to ensure no indulgence in any form of corruption and abuse of power either directly or indirectly with any party. Besides, internal and external audits were carried out to ensure transparency and accountability in company’s administration and finance. In addition, open door policy and grievance mechanism have provided employees a channel to report any suspected misconduct in the company. In financial year 2018/2019, we were proud to announce zero case reported on corruption acts in Artmatrix. We will continue to advocate those practices and improve our operational system to further reduce the possibility of fraud. 10
