Sustainovate Progress Report 2018 Contents Turning technology INTRODUCTION into ­opportunity 2 Husqvarna Group 4 Sustainovate Husqvarna Group is a leading global producer 5 Megatrends of outdoor power products for forest, park and STRATEGY 6 Integrating sustainability across ­garden care, watering products, and power tools the Group 8 CEO & CFO Statement for construction. With a passion for innovation, 10 Strategic milestones 12 Impacts along the value chain we create performance, pride and improved results for customers. OUR CHALLENGES 14 Carbon challenge 22 Team challenge 24 Supplier challenge 26 Safety challenge 30 Community challenge INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY Key data 32 A foundation of integrity 34 Creating sustainable value 41,085 36 Sustainovate governance 38 Materiality – A focus on value creation ABOUT THIS REPORT 40 GRI Index Net sales, SEKm (39,394) 42 Additional indicators 44 Auditor’s report 3,241 Operating income excluding items affecting comparability, SEKm (3,790) 7.9 Operating margin excluding items affecting comparability, % (9.6) 13,206 Average number of employees (13,252) –21 CO2 emission intensity reduction, % (–24) HUSQVARNA GROUP · 2 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 Our divisions and brands Husqvarna Group has three empowered divisions that focus on premium products and solutions under strong brands. Husqvarna Gardena Construction A leader in forest and garden A leader in watering products, A leader in light construction products. The undisputed market garden hand tools and smart products for professionals. leader in robotic lawn mowers. garden systems. 66% Share of Group net sales 20% Share of Group net sales 14% Share of Group net sales Celebrating 330 years Important events in 2018 Husqvarna Group is one of the oldest companies in • Entered professional segment for robotic the world and will celebrate 330 years of innovation in lawn mowers. 2019. Over time, the once-local Swedish company has • Launched a new generation of the iconic developed into a global group with world-leading Husqvarna professional chainsaw with improved market positions. Innovating and adapting to cuscutting performance and lower emissions. tomer needs has always been a common thread and the company is investing more than ever in exploring • Broadened the product range in the Construction new business opportunities. Products and solutions Division by acquiring Atlas Copco’s Light that reduce environmental impact and improve perCompaction & ­Concrete Equipment business. formance among customers will continue to be our • Decision to restructure and dissolve the drivers for long-term growth and success. Consumer Brands Division as of January 1, 2019. Our markets Global presence in attractive markets with steady underlying growth. SHARE OF GROUP NET SALES 37% 51% 12% North America Europe Rest of the world SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 3 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT sustainovate Sustainovate Anchored in a passion for innovation and connecting people with nature, Sustainovate is Husqvarna Group’s way of integrating sustainability into its business. Creating a strong company for the future demands the ingenuity and courage of our people, forward-thinking leadership and the insights of our strategic partners. With our customer focus, we are committed to raising the bar on safety and product efficiency and finding new ways to reduce their consumption of energy, water and other resources. Realizing our vision means exploring innovative product ideas and business models that deliver positive impacts for people and the planet and making these products widely available. OUR CORE PURPOSE OUR VISION OUR KEY BEHAVIORS Turning technology into Shaping great experiences It starts with me opportunity We make a difference to those I take ownership and I ask myself: With a passion for innovation who shape green spaces and What can I do? we create performance, pride urban environments through our • Seek customers’ point of view in and improved results for our leadership in sustainable, userall meetings and decisions customers. centered solutions. • Demonstrate collaboration by giving and seeking support • Maintain focus and simplicity HUSQVARNA GROUP · 4 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT megatrends A changing world Climate change, access to energy, water and raw materials. Demographic shifts and an ever-more globalized and technology-driven world. These megatrends influence how society and markets are evolving. Understanding the impact of megatrends on our markets and operations is critical to executing on our strategy with agility and resilience. Speed of technology Rising demand for safety Urbanization and new customer groups Digitalization is transforming how products Safety in the workplace and at home is central By 2030, global middle-class spending is are developed, used, serviced and shared. to people’s well being. Products and practices ­projected to triple and two thirds of the popuThrough a digitized offering such as fleet that go beyond the baseline for safety and lation will be living in cities. In Europe and management systems for commercial users durability are impacting expectations on the North America, people older than 55 will outand smart garden solutions, we are better Group’s brands. number people under the age of 18. able to deliver more efficient services and products. Sustainability opportunities and risks Sustainability opportunities and risks Sustainability opportunities and risks • Analyzing data from devices and robotic • Product safety is regulated in more markets, • Parks and green spaces are increasingly technology enables customer insights and and product and workplace safety perforimportant as cities grow, opening opportuproduct features for the sharing economy, mance can influence brand reputation nities in public-sector procurement and productivity, efficiency and safety gains growing our role of connecting people with • Consistently improving product safety nature • Digitalized manufacturing and product ­reassures customers and is an indicator development improves quality, shortens of market leadership • Consumer demographics and customer time-to-market, increases efficiencies in demands are changing, opening opportu­factories and the workplace nities for innovation for ergonomics and expansion in new geographical regions, yet • Risks regarding cybersecurity, privacy and may also result in a smaller home-owning regulation are increasing market The energy transformation Shifting consumer values and The shift towards low-carbon solutions is a purchasing behavior growing priority among customers and reguPurchasing decisions are guided by sustainalators. Improved technologies make energy bility values, individualism and expression, as storage affordable and viable. well as ease of use and affordability. Sustainability opportunities and risks Sustainability opportunities and risks • Products that go beyond standards for fuel • The shift to e-commerce is changing sales efficiency deliver a competitive advantage channels and thereby potentially increasing our carbon footprint • Energy use and recycling are regulated in more markets and battery technologies • Expectations to deliver high standards for allow for renewable energy sources human rights and environmental practices For an analysis of the impact along the supply chain are on the rise on these megatrends on our • Use of lithium-ion batteries requires greater markets and customerss, transparency on human rights and environ• Demand for customer experience provide see The Husqvarna Group’s mental risks along the value chain opportunities for circular business models Annual Report 2018 page 10. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 5 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Integrating sustainability across the Group Integrating sustainability across the Group Innovation that brings people and nature closer together. This is the heart of Sustainovate, the Group’s strategic approach to sustainability. Sustainovate is founded on the principle that a strateAs an integral part of the Group’s business model, gic approach to sustainability is vital for creating Sustainovate includes Group-wide targets to drive long-term value and critical for market leadership. sustainability performance to 2020. The targets are The strategic framework is built on five key chalcompared to 2015, unless otherwise stated. Each lenges where the Group aims to reduce its impacts division is responsible for driving its own initiatives in and enhance its ability to positively affect people’s the areas where they can add the most value. lives and the environment. Carbon 10% 21% AMBITION TARGET PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS NEXT STEPS Through innovation, • Around 27 percent of • Explore internal Challenge energy-efficient sales of motorized carbon pricing options operations and new products are batteryfor airfreight and Decouple business products, the Group CO2 intensity reduction CO2 intensity reduction powered or electrical, carbon offsetting for growth from CO2 aims to grow its business across the value chain across the value chain compared to 11 product sales 33% 8% emissions while reducing emissions percent in 2015 • Exit some low-margin across the value chain, • 59 percent of petrol-powered from product design and electricity used in product segments, development to operations derives mainly in North suppliers, manufacturing, absolute CO2 intensity absolute CO2 intensity from renewable America logistics and smarter reduction from product reduction use by 2035 sources • Perform life-cycle product use assessments on key products Team 9 11 AMBITION TARGET PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS NEXT STEPS Efforts to build an • 93 percent (approx. • Update and sharpen Challenge attractive, behavior-led + + 12,000 employees) the diversity strategy workplace should never responded to the • Develop Group Be the best stop. By providing a Net Promoter Score NPS 2018 Team Survey leadership behaviour place to work platform for employees (NPS) equal to or better • NPS increased for the model to make a difference and than the peer group sixth consecutive year • Launch new Employee offering opportunities • Since 2015 some 600 Value Proposition for people of all managers have taken backgrounds to part in leadership maximize their talents, training, 158 of them the Group aims to be the in 2018 employer of choice • Working climate continues to improve Supplier 70% 26% AMBITION TARGET PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS NEXT STEPS By evaluating strategic • 52 full sustainability • Develop assessments Challenge suppliers’ environmental, audits conducted in for risk evaluations and human rights and safety Asia, Europe and prioritize due diligence, Inspire and build a performance and ethical of purchasing spend share of spend from Americas for lithium-ion battery sustainable supplier standards, the Group from strategic suppliers approved suppliers • No zero-tolerance suppliers base aims to motivate suppliers audited and approved issues were uncovered • Review and update the to improve and prioritize based on sustainability in supplier audits Supplier Code of those with high sustaina­ performance Business Ethics bility performance • Ensure corrective measures for audited, not approved suppliers * Unless otherwise stated. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 6 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Integrating sustainability across the Group An inclusive strategy 2018 was a year to prepare for the next phase of integrating sustainability deeper into the business. Aligned to our updated business strategy that will be launched in 2019, we are preparing Husqvarna Group beyond 2020. A core group of experts representing divisions and central functions is engaged in a six-month initiative to define Sustainovate to 2025, with new challenges and new ambitious goals. “It’s an inclusive process, and we are gathering input from key internal and external stakeholder groups of each division,” says Calle Medin, VP Business Assurance, who is heading the strategy process. Safety 35% 48% AMBITION TARGET PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS NEXT STEPS With its strong focus on • Launch a new Challenge • Product safety: safety and ergonomics in 11 cases involving Occupational, Health products and on products released and Safety policy Lead the industry in occupational, health and reduction in new reduction in new prod• Product safety: since 2016 were safety across the safety (OHS), the Group product incidents, uct incidents compared reported Implement KPI’s and value chain will improve safety across compared with 2016 with 2016 increase collaboration 40% 38% • Workplace Safety: its value chain with end customers Performance in most facilities reflects or • Workplace safety: exceeds the industry Introduce a Groupreduction in injury rate reduction in Total benchmark for manu­ wide OHS incident in operations Recordable Incident facturing management system Rate (TRIR) • Implemented an ISO 45001-based OHS manage­ment system Community AMBITION By connecting people with nature, the HIGHLIGHTS • Husqvarna Division initiatives in four NEXT STEPS • Establish a Group-wide framework to Challenge Group aims to protect biodiversity, promote countries with local conservation and align objectives and measure positive healthier lifestyles and create more resilient community organizations impact of emergency response and Build a platform for communities • Hosted an international Silent City con­ community work teams to engage in ference in Germany and several local events • Determine Group-wide capacity for local communities in Poland, Lithuania, Australia, Denmark emergency response program and France to convene through leaders, academics to explore the role of parks • Under the banner “Every drop counts”, Gardena announced a partnership with UNICEF on World Water Day SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 7 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT CEO & CFO Statement Sustainovate helps shift our company mindset The sustainability agenda is anchored more deeply in the Group’s decisions and actions. At the same time, we see that issues relating to an evolving society and the environment are increasingly impacting our business. Husqvarna Group’s President and CEO Kai Wärn and CFO Glen Instone explain how. On the impact of the sustainability agenda on 2018, we invested resources in an IT-based system to business decisions sharpen our demand forecasting and subsequently Kai Wärn: For us, tackling climate change is both a our inventory. Cutting lead times and improving our business and a societal imperative, it’s a responsibility responsiveness heightens our agility and helps get towards future generations and we need to do our the right products to the market by matching not only fair share. This is manifested in our commitment to the season but current weather conditions, too. our science-based target on CO2 emissions. To be a ­credible market leader, we can’t compromise on Board and Senior Management engagement ­sustainability. Kai: The Board has been active by approving and This year, we decided to exit certain product segmonitoring progress on Sustainovate, our way of ments, predominantly petrol-powered products in integrating sustainability into the business, and it is North America. We can look at this decision in two supporting us in setting our direction for Sustainoways. From a long-term financial perspective, it vate’s next phase. This year, the Board emphasized made sense to exit now, due to low profitability and the importance of engaging our suppliers to improve limited prospects to improve. From a climate-risk responsiveness to our expectations and to analyzing perspective, this is in line with our commitment to battery life-cycle impacts. The Board’s role is crucial decouple growth from CO2 emissions by promoting for building awareness and momentum. growth in battery-powered products. Right now, Glen: Sustainovate is followed up on a quarterly basis around 27 percent of our sales of motorized prodby Group Management. Each division drives Sustainucts are battery-­powered or electrical, compared to ovate to address their impacts and opportunities. To » For us, tackling 11 percent in 2015. align our actions better, sustainability needs to be climate change is kept high on every division’s business agenda and On equipping the Group for a changing society sustainability performance must become a key metboth a business and Glen Instone: Access to resources is among our ric. As of 2019, Sustainovate’s agenda and progress a social imperative, greatest headwinds. Foremost, it impacts cost on the will be part of each division’s operational reviews. We it’s a responsibility supply side. Prices for energy-intensive commodities are also developing the next chapter of our strategic such as steel, aluminum and fossil fuel-based plastics journey by aligning new Sustainovate targets with our towards future and nylon have been volatile. For electronics and bat2025 business strategy. generations and teries, we are also digging down the supply chain to understand human rights and environmental impacts Where we stand with Sustainovate we need to do our of sourcing minerals such as lithium and cobalt. We Glen: I genuinely think that we are shifting mindset to fair share.« expect their access to be increasingly constrained, too. a sharper focus on the customer and the entire prodKai: We see more extreme weather. Almost 90 p ­ ercent uct life cycle. Sustainovate is helping to make that of our market is in the northern hemisphere, and the happen. It brings the Husqvarna Group brand to life, nature of our business is seasonal. This summer has together with knowledge that sustainable companies shown us how weather can impact our bottom line. are successful companies. Like any other organizaResults were affected by warm and dry weather in tion, we risk being stuck in the here and now, so we Europe, negatively influencing demand for lawn-­ need to look beyond that, Sustainovate plays a role in mowing products, while demand for watering prodhelping us with the long term. ucts that help consumers manage and reduce water Kai: We are on track to achieve the 2020 challenge use, was positively affected. targets, which is great! The CO2 intensity reduction We are enhancing our ability to react to unexof 21 percent indicates we can significantly exceed pected swings in demand caused by weather. In the 10 percent carbon target for 2020, which is where HUSQVARNA GROUP · 8 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT CEO & CFO Statement » We are on the track to achieve the 2020 targets, which is great. Our CO2 intensity reductions of 21 percent indicate we can significantly exceed the 10 percent carbon target for 2020.« we can make the greatest difference in terms of susGlen: This year, so many people have been affected tainability. We still need to tackle the supplier and by natural disasters such as forest fires and hurritransportation aspects of the carbon challenge, canes. I’m incredibly proud to see our products being though. Progress is also necessary within suppliers, relied on by emergency teams. I know that we have a our third challenge. We need to go deeper into the role to play and our products are doing good things. supply chain and align data collection across suppliers better. This year’s highlights Kai: Our Code of Conduct has been revised, including a better alignment with our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Glen: We’re making tangible progress of shifting operations to renewable energy. The latest facility to install solar panels is our plant in Changzhou in 2019. Today, solar panels cover 30 percent of our energy needs in the Nashville, Arkansas plastics facility. During downtime, we supply electricity into the power grid, too. We have proven that renewables work. Later in 2019, we also plan to install solar panels at our ­Brazilian plant. Kai: I’m proud of the progress and consistency with which we’re executing Sustainovate. Sustainovate is more than a buzzword. It makes me proud that we are mentioned together with recognized sustainability leaders. This is encouraging on this important journey. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 9 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Strategic milestones Strategic milestones Guided by Sustainovate, we have embarked on a journey to integrate sustainability deeper into our business. Divesting petrol-powered products Adjunct Professor at KTH. The projects extend to The Group is exiting some high-emission petrol-pow2020 and have been awarded SEK 4m by Vinnova, ered product segments in North America in 2019 and the Swedish Innovation Agency. 2020. The exit marks a sharper focus on growth areas such as robotic lawn mowers, digitization and techTreading lightly nology for battery-powered products and reflects our The Husqvarna Carbon Footprint Calculator, availaambition to decouple growth from CO2 emissions. ble in 2019, will enable professional landscapers to Affected segments include petrol-powered better understand the CO2 impact of their machine walk-behind mowers, garden tractors and some confleet. Via machine sensors and built-in connectivity, sumer handheld products such as chain saws. the new tool is part of Husqvarna Fleet Services™. It collects data from the machine fleet, tracking equipWired for new business models ment performance and identifying ways to improve We are embracing digital business models that both productivity. A user forum connecting fleet managegenerate value for customers and decouple our ment users in a number of growth from environmental impacts. Digital services companies allows people are not only essential for future-proofing our offering, to share ideas and feedthey serve as our entry point into the sharing economy, back within the group on help improve product durability and manage our how they can leverage the impacts on energy and water consumption. calculator and help us fineTo explore implications of digital content, we parttune its functionality. ner with Sweden’s Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) and Linköping University. Two research projects help us shift from organizing along product lines towards embracing new organizational structures, customer targeting and collaboration. “The projects aim to experiment and prototype offerings, strategies and approaches,” says Anders Johanson, Senior VP Innovation and Technology and Ten years with AIESEC Husqvarna Group celebrated the ten-year anniversary of its partnership with AIESEC, the world’s largest youth-run student organization. AIESEC provides university graduates with leadership development, cross-cultural internships and volunteer experience. “Through our partnership, we are tapping into a talent pool that is engaged and energized and brings us diversity and inspiration,” says Mi Nyberg Johnsson, VP of Talent Management. “In turn, young talent gets the chance to work in a global company. In 2018, 29 AIESEC interns worked with us. In the last ten years, we have provided 120 job opportunities to its members.” HUSQVARNA GROUP · 10 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Strategic milestones Acting With Integrity Code of Conduct Head ofﬁce Husqvarna AB (publ) | Mailing address: Box 7454, SE-103 92 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Regeringsgatan 28 | Telephone: +46 8 738 90 00 | www.husqvarnagroup.com Registered ofﬁce Husqvarna AB (publ) Jönköping | Mailing address: SE-561 82 Huskvarna, Sweden Visiting address: Drottninggatan 2 | Telephone: +46 36 14 65 00 Every drop counts Our Code of Conduct was significantly revised in By 2030, half the world’s population will live in water2018. It now incorporates nine new standards including stressed areas. Our line of water-efficient products business ethics, human rights, safety, quality and our aims to address water scarcity and other urgent environmental footprint. related issues. In describing the roll-out, Ken Wittenauer, VP For example, under the banner “Every drop Compliance and Integrity, explains, “The Code is counts” Gardena announced a water partnership being rolled out across the Group and is translated with UNICEF in 2018. In its three-year agreement, into 14 languages. About 6,000 employees will be Gardena is supporting UNICEF in providing access to trained in the Code as of 2019.” clean drinking water for more than 100,000 people in over 100 countries. The UNICEF logo will also be carried on Gardena’s limited-edition watering set of tap and hose connectors. Gardena’s garden watering products can deliver THE WORLD WE WANT efficient irrigation systems and contribute to saving The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a 17-goal plan for water, especially when used with sensors. Gardena ending extreme poverty, fighting inequality and injustice and protecting aims to increase sales of these watering products by our planet up to 2030. Realizing the SDGs requires significant efforts across 50 percent by 2020 compared to 2015. In 2018, we all levels of society, not least in business, which has a critical role to play as reached the target with a 59 percent increase in sales. a change agent. By reducing the negative impacts of our operations, contributing to London calling positive change along the value chain and engaging in society at large, we A future-focused leadership culture helps Husqvarna can contribute the most to seven of these goals. The SDGs will play an Group carve its place in a fast-changing marketplace. even more important role in developing the Group’s Sustainovate strategy Together with London Business School, we developed beyond 2020, which will be announced in 2019. the Future Executive Program, as one of six leadership training opportunities ongoing at the Group. The program equips managers with insight needed to Where the Group can develop and implement future business strategies. reduce negative impacts Using the program’s outside-in perspective, parof its operations ticipants develop strategic approaches to improve resilience and pinpoint opportunities and partnerships in a changing society. Group Management Where the Group can joined participants during the program to share positively impact customers learnings. and value chains Acting with integrity Husqvarna Group is built on a foundation of integrity, Where the Group can trust and respect. Our Code of Conduct plays a key positively impact society role to ensure that these principles are reflected in the actions of each employee and business partner at large wherever we operate, and that expectations for working according to them are understood by all. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 11 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Impacts along the value chain Impacts along the value chain A value chain perspective helps us better understand our impacts and maximize the benefits of our work. The long term view helps us pinpoint the relationships we need to strengthen in order to deliver on Sustainovate’s targets. PRODUCT & SERVICES DEVELOPMENT SOURCING MANUFACTURING Carbon emissions and product The Group sources goods and With 13,000 employees in 40 safety targets spur innovation components from approximately countries, our economic and and enable the shift to low-car2,000 companies. With Sustainosocial impacts are sizeable. Our bon alternatives. This year, SEK vate, we are leveraging 172 of our direct carbon footprint is rela1,581m (1,342 m) was invested in most strategic suppliers, repretively small, about two percent, R&D, a large share of this in new senting some 70 percent of our and is mostly from electricity conproduct innovation and efficiency. purchasing spend, to generate sumption. The decisions we change and reduce risks make here set the tone for other upstream. priorities along the value chain. How we will meet our How we will meet our How we will meet our challenges challenges challenges • Energy and water • Supplier-enabled innovation • Focus on efficient operations efficient products OUR • Long-term financial • Manage talent IMPACTS • Innovate solutions for cusperformance • Ensure health, safety and welltomer health and safety •  nergy-efficient suppliers, E being • Technology investments audited for their sustainability practices • Materials use and recyclability • Ethical business practices The difference we make The difference we make The difference we make Driving low-carbon alternatives A partnership approach helps us As a trusted brand and a company and safety innovation helps creachieve climate and supplier tarcommitted to market leadership, ate a competitive edge while gets and deliver cost savings for we attract the right competencies. reducing impacts at the customus and our suppliers. We encourProducing products efficiently and er-use phase. Meeting ambitious age suppliers to share our susclose to market allows significant regulations in one market protainability ambitions and help us cost optimization. Employees gain vides insight into anothers' reduce our impacts and increase job development opportunities ­requirements. This approach transparency deeper into the and security. Local communities stimulates industry performance. supply chain. benefit through jobs and economic stability. DEGREE OF OUR INFLUENCE HIGH MEDIUM HIGH HUSQVARNA GROUP · 12 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Impacts along the value chain Achieving the 2020 targets depends on our ability to identify how actions in one phase of our value chain link to the impacts in another phase. Here is how we see our greatest impacts along our value chain to 2020, and how Sustainovate is designed to create value by actively addressing them. TRANSPORTATION CUSTOMER INTERACTION CUSTOMER USE END OF LIFE Approximately one percent of Our products are sold via 25,000 Close to 85 percent of a p ­ etrolOur long-term vision is to turn our the Group's carbon dioxide emisdealers and retailers in 100 counpowered product's carbon products’ end of life into the sions is related to transportation, tries to consumers and profesimpact occurs when it is in use. beginning of a new cycle. This primarily from road, ocean and sionals and through online sales. Our ability to influence this phase requires a framework that few comairfreight. Product packaging and Our aim is to increase sales of depends on product developpanies can achieve on their own. operations footprint can posiproducts that go beyond local ment, battery technology and tively influence our carbon regulation for emissions and growing opportunities offered impact on the road. safety. through digitization. How we will meet our How we will meet our How we will meet our How we will meet our challenges challenges challenges challenges • Shift to preferred transporta• Promote sustainable and effi• Develop sustainable products • Develop sustainable products tion methods cient products and services and services and services • Optimize logistics • Ensure long-term financial • Deliver solutions for customer • Follow regulatory change performance health and safety • Optimize packaging • Promote personal protective equipment The difference we make The difference we make The difference we make The difference we make Shifting to more sustainable Sales growth improves our longEnergy-efficient products deliver Our products are comprised transport and decreasing use of term financial viability. By procost savings for customers. largely of steel and plastics. We air cargo are important objectives moting battery we’re growing the Focusing on safe solutions delivparticipate in recycling schemes for society that we support market for a low-carbon product ers a sense of security to users for electrical equipment and batthrough our purchasing choices. portfolio. Increasing transparency and bystanders. Spare parts and teries in markets in North America Optimizing logistics can yield sigon environmental and social fleet-management services extend and Europe. With the circular nificant cost savings. impacts help dealers and retailthe lifetime of our products. economy as a growing imperative, ers meet customer expectations. we are exploring opportunities to Targets to increase sales of procontribute further by increasing tective equipment and water effiuse of recycled plastics in prodcient products help improve ucts. This brings us a closer to cresafety and efficiency. ating a more circular value chain. LOW MEDIUM LOW LOW SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 13 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Carbon Challenge Carbon Sharp focus on customer use challenge Through our carbon targets, we aim to decouple our CO2 emissions from our ambition to grow as a company. The greatest opportunities to reduce our impact lie in how we deliver value to customers. They are threefold: developing energy-efficient products, shifting towards electrical products and developing low-carbon business models. By addressing touchpoints along our value chain – Progress across the value chain CO2 EMISSIONS IN suppliers, operations, transportation and product use THE VALUE CHAIN Already in 2017, tangible CO2 reductions were made – our approach is to reduce CO2 in line with our in product use and manufacturing. This continued in impacts while delivering value to our customers. Our 2018. Although we aim to find a common way of aim is to achieve a CO2 intensity reduction of 10 percent measuring CO2 among suppliers, so far marginal proin 2020, compared to 2015 emissions levels. gress has been made on this supplier sub-target (p.21). By reducing CO2 by 6 percent in transportation, we also realized an expected outcome, OUR SCIENCE-BASED TARGET although airfreight is still on the rise. The Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTI) works Exiting certain petrol-powered products Suppliers, 10% with companies to set emission reduction tarManufacturing, 2% The majority of our products still rely on petrol. A Transportation, 1% gets, consistent with efforts to keep temperature product life-cycle analysis of petrol product shows Product use, 85% increases below 2°C compared to pre-industrial that the largest share of our impact by far – approxiOther 2% levels, the goal of the 2015 Paris Agreement on mately 85 percent, depending on the product cateclimate change. This initiative of non-governAccording to the gory – occurs when operating our products. As such, ment organizations includes the Carbon DiscloGroup’s carbon footthe biggest opportunities in the 2020 carbon chalprint, our greatest sure Project (CDP), the UN Global Compact, lenge are through sales of more sustainable alternaimpact occurs during the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Wildtives such as battery-powered products. use of our products. life Fund (WWF). Our Science-based target (SBT) incorporates the Sustainovate target of a 10 percent reduction in CO2 intensity by 2020. This gives us the foundation for reducing CO2 emissions in the short term. We don’t intend to stop there, though. The SBT commitment also extends to cut CO2 emissions from product use by 33 percent by 2035 compared to 2015, regardless of how much we grow our business. Husqvarna Group was the first Swedish-listed company, and the world’s first forest and garden company to have its CO2 reduction targets approved by the SBTI. 2035 TARGET 2018 RESULTS –33% Absolute CO2 emissions –8% Absolute CO2 emissions reduction from product reduction from product use by 2035 use by 2035 HOW WE ARE GETTING THERE The shift to battery-powered R&D for efficiency and step-change innovation products will deliver on our longand business models term objective to decouple growth from CO2 emissions. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 14 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Carbon Challenge 2020 TARGET PROGRESS REDUCTION SUB-TARGETS HOW WE ARE GETTING THERE 2018 RESULTS 10% 21% 10% in product use Optimize product efficiency and increase share of battery and robotics 20% 10% 6% CO2 emissions Accumulated Reduce airfreight and optimize distribution intensity reduction reduction in transportation and packaging across the value chain (2018 vs 2015 30% 58% baseline) in manufacturing Purchase renewable energy and improve energy efficiency 10% Engage suppliers to disclose and reduce from strategic suppliers their CO2 emissions. Drive improvements and share best practice The most tangible difference in our CO2 footprint will occur beyond 2020, as we expand our portfolio of battery-powered products and invest in robotics. and connected technologies for low-carbon alternatives. Although battery-powered products represent a lower share of turnover, the share of total sales have Our approach to managing CO2 reductions increased 16 percentage points since 2015 – from 11 percent to 27 percent. Our carbon challenge covers our emissions footprint across our value chain, from We made a further commitment to decouple CO2 suppliers, operations, transportation to product use. Our four related sub-targets emissions from business growth with our announceare formulated as snapshots of the current year’s performance, not as accumulated ment to exit certain consumer segments and prodtargets. Divisions drive targets through their own initiatives, relevant to their busiucts, such as petrol-powered walk-behind lawn mowness context. Heads of sourcing, manufacturing, transportation and product develers and garden lawn tractors. Although the exit will opment own their respective share of the target and initiatives. lessen our carbon footprint, the 2020 target achieveProgress is reported as CO2 emissions intensity, tailored to each aspect of the ment will likely not be impacted. In addition, the 2018 value chain. When emissions are aggregated on Group level, it is reported as per acquisition of Light Compaction & Concrete Equipvalue added.* For products, we measure CO2 emissions during the product’s lifement business will have marginal impact on the time, normalized to net sales. In manufacturing, energy consumed at factories, Group’s carbon footprint. warehouses, R&D centers and offices is measured, also normalized to net sales and The most tangible difference in CO2 emissions will calculated for each division. In transport, CO2 emissions are tracked per tons occur beyond 2020, as we expand our portfolio of shipped, to report how we reduce our impact, relative to increased sales. We are battery-powered products and invest in robotics and seeking a relevant way of measuring progress for energy use and carbon emissions connected technologies for low-carbon alternatives among suppliers. and business models. We launched our Science­Progress is reported to Group Management on a quarterly basis. Cross-divisional based target (SBT) in 2017, which places special networks for CO2, technology and suppliers regularly convene with responsible emphasis on efforts to reduce impacts at the productmanagers from every division to share best practice and identify barriers to realizing use phase. the challenge. * Value added equates to EBITDA, salaries, social and pension costs. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 15 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Product use Delivering efficient products and low-carbon alternatives We aim to provide our customers with more energy-efficient petrolpowered products and promote the use of batteries, robotics and connected solutions. This will help reduce CO2 emissions and realize our 2035 Science-based target. CO2 EMISSIONS INTENSITY Petrol-powered product sales volumes have LC247VLi won the ‘Lawn mower of the Year’ award FROM PRODUCT USE decreased since 2015. Since many of our products from the test site Trusted Reviews. In 2018 we launched tCO2e/SEKm VA are only used occasionally by our customers, fuel effiseveral models built on the Group’s battery systems, 700 ciency as a selling point is a secondary priority for sold under the Husqvarna brand. 600 petrol-powered products. Price and performance are As robotic lawn mowers replace petrol walkstill the arguments that resonate most with them. behind mowers and ride-on mowers, our overall 500 Because petrol-powered products represent more emissions footprint will also be reduced. The growth 400 than 70 percent of motorized products within the of robotics is also a priority, especially in North 300 Group, connecting price, performance and efficiency ­America, where we will aim to grow significantly 200 will continue to be an important challenge for us. through increased distribution at hundreds of Lowe’s Our efforts to improve fuel efficiency continue. For retail outlets as well as through dealers. 100 petrol-powered products, fuel consumption has 0 decreased on average by 15-20 percent for comparaSustainability risks in battery sourcing 2015 2016 2017 2018 ble products on the market. For some ride-on mowers, Batteries pose sustainability risks that must be underCO2 emissions intensity for example, we are increasing the use of electronic stood and managed. Sourcing minerals such as lithium from product use were fuel-injection (EFI) technology, which reduces fuel – a reactive alkali metal that powers batteries – cobalt reduced by 20% between 2015 and 2018. consumption with approximately 10 percent. These and nickel pose environmental and human-rights mowers are currently sold in Europe and will be sold risks among suppliers. It is crucial to be transparent in North America as of 2019. about where these minerals are sourced and to ensure their safe recycling (p.24). PERCENTAGE OF SALES Sales of battery-powered products on the rise OF BATTERY AND ELECTRICAL ­PRODUCTS Battery-powered products represent an ever-growing Husqvarna Fleet management systems % share of our business, a trend that will continue into One of our greatest challenges is finding ways to 30 the foreseeable future. The shift to battery generates influence how users operate their products at optimal value for many reasons. It delivers opportunities to use efficiency. By collecting data from devices and prorenewable energy sources, it improves safety and verviding the tools to analyse that data, digitization 20 satility, and creates no direct emissions, less vibration helps customers optimize their use of our products. It and lower noise levels. Market demand is also increasalso gives us insights into how we can create even ing due to the influence of new emission regulations. better customer solutions and fine-tune our products 10 Interest in battery-powered products, including to each task. robotics, continues to rise among commercial customers and consumers. In particular, cities and municipali0 2015 2016 2017 2018 ties are proactively sourcing battery-powered and robotics products and we see an increased interest in Approximately 27% of total these solutions within tree care, urban forestry and sales of motorized products are battery-powered and parks. Sales of battery and electrical products repre­electrical, compared to 11% sent 27 percent of our sales of motorized products. in 2015. As a next step, we are piloting a carbon-offsetting project for battery products sold in France in 2019, as a way of promoting sales of carbon-lean alternatives. Handheld and lawn mowers Within battery-powered handheld products, 2018 saw the launches and upgrades of products such as battery pole saws, hedge trimmers, trimmers and chain saws and an extended portfolio of lawn mowers. The marHedge trimmers are among the ket for battery-powered lawn-mowers stands out for its product categories leading the growth potential. The new battery lawn mower shift to battery. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 16 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Product use Products paving the way Across our divisions, our products help tackle key climate-change challenges and support initiatives that underline the value of zeroemission equipment. Putting out fires Equipment a Husqvarna dealer in Sacramento, Many regions of the world are getting hotter and ­California who were among the many companies drier than they used to be, and that’s driving a trend tasked with the clean-up of the town. toward larger fires. The Group’s products have a role to play in managing forests for prevention and fighting Cutting to the chase them when the going gets tough. Perfect for carpenters and contractors, Husqvarna In California, the 2018 wildfire season was the Construction’s K 535i Power cutter features ergo­ deadliest and most destructive one on record. Built nomics, high performance and high chain speed and on longstanding relationships with firefighters in now, the freedom of being battery-powered. ­California, Husqvarna Division was active in getting Based on Husqvarna’s established battery-motor teams the chainsaws and brush-cutters they needed platform, this lightweight 36 V, 9 power cutter proquickly. Together with our dealer in Southern California, vides professional users with reliable quick starts and a mobile parts trailer was also on hand during fire delivers the flexibility of being free from the power grid. season and we dropped parts close to the fires to The power cutter is easy to maneuver and control, eliminate logistics delays. thanks to the placement of the blade closer to the At the Camp Fires in Paradise, CA, the Group supcenter of the machine. As an added bonus, users can plied a significant number of saws, personal proteccut away without worrying about emissions. tive gear, and other supplies through Bliss Power Carbon cutting in California new generation of batteries before deciding to purchase,” With its aim of becoming a carbon-neutral state economy by explains Dorothy Fibiger, Air Resources Engineer. “It can 2045, California has an all-in approach to tackling climate take some convincing to get them to try the products, but change. One of their targets calls for a 50 percent reduction in they’re surprised when they see their upsides in terms of the use of petrol by 2030. performance, low emissions levels, reduced noise pollution This target is relevant to how the state manages its buildand vibration. Downtown areas love the equipment – workings and land assets. The California Air Resources Board ers can work longer hours with fewer complaints about dis(CARB) works with agencies to translate these ambitions into turbing noise.” actions, including helping landChristopher Dilbeck, Air Pollution Specialist at CARB, scapers of state and public coladds, “At Sacramento’s Capital Park, when groundskeepers lege campuses, state parks and started to use battery products it became their equipment of other green spaces shift to choice. String and hedge trimmers and electric chain saws battery-­powered products. To are popular.” achieve this, CARB is demonstratFibiger concluded that up-front costs can be an obstacle ing products from ­Husqvarna and for some products, but there is a business case when considother professional brands. ering the total life-cycle cost of electric. Her recommendation “We help groundskeepers for the next step for Husqvarna Group? “Blowers drain battersee the benefits of battery. We ies quickly; they’re the most energy intensive. Develop even make sure they experience the more powerful batteries.” SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 17 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Manufacturing Towards renewables in our operations In factories, warehouses, R&D centers and offices across the Group, initiatives are in place to reduce energy and introduce renewable-energy alternatives. In 2018, over half of our electricity needs were met by renewables. Although emissions from manufacturing only repreInvesting in energy-efficient equipment CO2 EMISSIONS INTENSITY FROM MANUFACTURING sent about two percent of our total CO2 footprint, we Investing in energy-efficient equipment or equiptCO2e/SEKm VA recognize that efficiencies and the shift to renewament that does not use energy-intensive compressed 20 bles have benefitted us through lower costs and a air is also a priority area. more engaged organization. In our plant for robotic lawnmowers in Aycliffe, UK, eight newly installed twinshot-moulding machines 15 Exceeded the target are generating a saving of 120,850 kWh per year with Our manufacturing operations are located in 15 the same number of parts produced per cycle. Only countries, including fossil-fuel intensive regions such about five percent of energy supplied to systems 10 as Asia and Eastern Europe. We aim to limit CO2 using compressed air becomes useful, the remaining impacts through energy optimization, investments in 95 percent is heat loss. Our aim is to reduce the heat energy-efficient production equipment, as well as the loss and improve oversight. At Huskvarna, Sweden, 5 2015 2016 2017 2018 production and sourcing of renewable electricity. we invested in a control system for compressed air These initiatives have so far contributed to a 58 perthat is delivering an energy savings of 300,000 kWh/ CO2 emissions intensity cent reduction in CO2 intensity since 2015, well year. In Changzhou, we replaced an inverter comfrom manufacturing were beyond our initial target of 30 percent. Total energy pressor, resulting in a 10 percent savings in energy reduced by 58% between 2015 and 2018. consumption has been reduced by 5 percent since use, compared with the previous solution. 2015 and while value added increased with 15 percent compared to 2015. Hunting for energy treasures SHARE OF Energy audits – we call them energy treasure hunts – Going renewable are an important way to identify and eliminate energy-­ RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY Our shift to renewables is delivering a large share of intensive practices in operations. In this way, we are % 60 our results. We continue to increase the share of better able to influence behavior. It is generating renewable electricity for our factories. Today, 59 perresults; in our three North American operations 50 cent of our energy is generated by renewable elec(Nashville, Orangeburg and McRae), repairing com40 tricity. Fifteen sites in Europe and one in North Amerpressed air leaks and other easily remedied problems ica only purchase renewable electricity. Seven sites in has led to a cost savings in excess of SEK 6m 30 Europe and twelve globally have not yet secured (USD 700,000). 20 agreements to purchase renewable energy. Solar-power capabilities were installed in NashChilling out 10 ville, Arkansas, in the US and Huskvarna Sweden, in In Heuchlingen, Germany, the Gardena plant pro0 2017, substantially reducing CO2 emissions. In Nashduces 1.5 million plastic parts every day. The process 2015 2016 2017 2018 ville solar power supplies 30 percent of the electricity requires cooling mechanisms that are highly energy Share of renewable electricity consumption, corresponding to electricity use in 90 intensive. In 2018, we piloted use of “eChiller” to increased to 59%. U.S. households annually. replace the refrigerant R134a, a substance with high In early 2019, we will finalize installation of solarglobal warming impact, with cool water. The e-Chiller power capability in Changzhou, China. Fully funcsolution will reduce energy consumption by 50 ­percent tional, the Chinese operation panels will also cover and provide a payback within a year. It is also enabling 30 percent (1.4 MW) of the site’s total consumption of the phase out of a R134a, which must be eliminated electricity. We are also evaluating an installation in from manufacturing in Europe by 2022. Sao Carlos, Brazil. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 18 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Manufacturing Actions on the ground From smart packaging to solar panels, Husqvarna Group is making efficiency gains and cutting CO2 in the process. Thinking out-of-the box Returnable packaging for ZTR mowers With our Group-wide initiative Husqvarna Improved Through a pilot program in 2019, we are testing a Print Packaging Opportunity (HiPPO), Husqvarna returnable steel crate for our zero-turn radius (ZTR) Group is rethinking its print and packaging solutions ride-on lawn mowers. Two ZTR models available to and product design to improve transport volume American and Canadian dealerships will be involved efficiency. Through this initiative, we are able to in the pilot. achieve sizeable cost savings and a CO2 reduction Products will be shipped to the dealers in collapsiof 20–30 percent. ble crates. They are returned to a refurbishment Our team in Changzhou, China has redesigned center where they are repaired and made available packaging cartons for our 578BTF Blower. “We for new shipments from our factory in Orangeburg, started with an analysis of the product’s impacts, from S.C, USA. the material of the box to the layout of the product The time and effort taken to unload the product is and how we present the product,” says Eve Zhang, significantly less and the dealer no longer has to disProject Office Changzhou, “By reducing the width of pose of the wood or corrugated packaging. In addithe carton from 540 mm to 360 mm, we can load 12 tion, the solution delivers tangible safety, productivity cartons on a pallet instead of eight. This also and shop-floor cleanliness gains. increases our container fill-rate by 80 percent, reducing CO2 emissions by 35 percent, and generating a cost savings of 35 percent.” The carton will be launched in early 2019. New carton Old carton Redesigning packaging cartons increases transportation efficiency, resulting in lower CO2 Recycleable packaging solutions for large ZTR emissions and reduced costs. mowers are being tested in the US. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 19 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Manufacturing Matt Irving, VP of Operations, Today’s Power (left) and Todd Anderson, Program Manager, Husqvarna Group (right) make the switch to solar in November 2017. The big switch It is a year since we installed solar-power capabilities at our capability, so any excess electrical power that we generate factory in Nashville, AR, USA. Today, well over a quarter of the from the solar array on weekends and holidays feeds back to energy needs for the plastic molding operations is now delivthe power grid. ered by renewables. Todd Anderson, Program Manager at Husqvarna Group, explains the benefits and take-aways of What are your top three recommendations for other sites? going solar. 1. Understand what external funding may be available from government agencies or electric-service providers. Without Why is solar ideal for the plastics facility? additional financial support, solar installations are difficult Due to significant electrical requirements and the cost to to justify from a cost-savings perspective only, you must operate the plastic injection molding machines, we knew also take the sustainability perspective into account. that this operation would financially benefit from a solar installation. 2. Involve your electric-service provider immediately in the The solar-generated electrical energy now represent 30 project and gain their commitment to the solar installation. percent of the total annual electricity consumption of the plastics operations. The utility cost savings from the solar3. Find and select a solar-array contractor that will provide a array installation over the same 12-month period was turnkey solution and a high-quality installation. The lowest SEK 1.3m (USD 138,000) with minimal cost to operate. cost contractor may not provide the long-term reliability and support needed for a 25-year life installation. What are the benefits of solar compared to relying on the power grid? What is your next step? We are still very dependent on the power grid to provide all We have begun an early investigation into a renewable of the electrical capacity needed to operate our plastics source of electric power for our Orangeburg, S.C. operations moulding facility. We do not have any battery electric storage in the USA. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 20 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Strategic suppliers and transportation Taking action and raising awareness among suppliers Reducing energy beyond our direct control requires influence, partnerships and relevant ways to measure progress. Our goal is to cut CO2 emissions among strategic some suppliers have also defined ambition levels to suppliers by 10 percent. We’re doing this by leveragshare best practices and challenge each other on ing our influence through a partnership approach how to improve. and defining comparable and relevant ways of measOne on one, and at a yearly supplier conferences, uring progress. This area poses a challenge that we we outline our target objectives, how we aim to have yet to master. achieve them and share best practices. After a first During 2018, our focus was on scoping the energy wave of collecting CO2 emission data from strategic consumption and CO2 emissions of 50 strategic supsuppliers, we decided to directly engage with a few pliers to better understand our indirect, upstream of them to drive concrete energy reduction initiaCO2 impacts. We have targeted 15 suppliers from this tives. See also p.24. group of 50, based on turnover, climate risks and engagement to further understand their impacts and develop ways of measuring impacts and progress. Through EXCITE, our strategic supplier program, Improving logistics planning and reducing airfreight We are working with our global network of suppliers across air, ocean, road and rail. CO2 EMISSIONS INTENSITY In transportation, our CO2 intensity was reduced by 6 As a next step in engaging our organization in reducFROM TRANSPORTATION percent compared to 2015. The best way to limit our ing CO2, we will install internal pricing mechanisms tCO2e/SEKm VA transportation-related CO2 impacts is through for air freight in 2019. Funds will be reinvested in initi5 improved logistics planning and reduced dependatives that support our Sustainovate target. ency on airfreight. 4 Continued use of airfreight is the limiting factor for us to continue to reduce CO2 intensity, often due to 3 last-minute deliveries. Last year, the Group reported that it would limit just-in-time use of airfreight for 2 some customers and instead integrate rail as a trans1 port option from Asia to Europe. This shift is several times cheaper and also leads to 25 times less CO2 0 emissions. During 2019 we will continue to focus on 2015 2016 2017 2018 the shift from airfreight to ground transportation, CO2 emissions intensity logistics and planning to optimize truckloads and from transportation were reduce inter-company transport. reduced by 6% between 2015 and 2018. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 21 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Team Challenge Team Leadership and empowerment challenge are key to value creation By creating an attractive workplace, providing opportunities and helping teams maintain sharp focus on key priorities, we can better deliver value to our employees. Our team challenge target measures how we are living up to their expectations. Our teams, with their competencies, energy and From strength to strength NET PROMOTER SCORE (NPS) commitment, are key to realizing the Group’s longMore than 93 percent or almost 12,000 of our NPS term strategic objectives. That’s why delivering lastemployees responded to the 2018 NPS survey – with 15 ing value to them plays a central role in Sustainovate input from both office and factory workers. Overall, and how our teams are managed throughout our we achieved an NPS score of +11, compared to +10 10 organization. Since we are accountable to our in 2017 and -5 in 2015. +9 is the 2018 industry benchemployees, progress against the Team Challenge is mark, based on 500,000 responses from 200 compa5 measured based on feedback of every team member. nies and an 82 percent response rate. Our results indicate that Husqvarna Group has a 0 The target tells a story high proportion of engaged employees, our working -5 This challenge helps create the best place to work, climate continues to improve and leadership quality and our target aims to exceed the industry benchis on the rise. In addition, more employees this year -10 mark in these regards. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) compared to 2017 believe the Group’s key goals have 2015 2016 2017 2018 is our litmus test. We measure our NPS through a been well communicated. Awareness of Sustainovate Benchmark yearly team survey, which asks employees how likely challenges and Core Purpose and Vision is increasing. it is that they would recommend Husqvarna Group as The team survey feedback led to improvement iniFor the third consecutive a place to work. We monitor how well we rate across tiatives in 2018 on Group, divisional and local levels in year since 2015, Husqvarna Group’s NPS is on the rise. three areas: employee satisfaction, engagement and areas such as performance and development diacommunicative leadership. Positive feedback within logue, team efficiency, leadership, working environthese areas indicates that underlying factors are in ment and actions for strengthening our employer place for value creation, for an attractive workplace brand. and for well-functioning teams. Strengthening engagement among employees at manufacturing facilities is a focus area for 2019. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 22 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Team Challenge 2020 TARGET PROGRESS HOW WE ARE GETTING THERE 2018 RESULTS +9 +11 • Improve working climate and engagement 93% Employee satisfaction 75% within manufacturing Achieve a Team NPS Engagement index Survey Net ProDevelop leadership capabilities 75% • moter Score (NPS) equal or better than Communicative leadership index our peer group • Strengthen performance dialogue • Build our employer brand • Strengthen teamwork and team efficiency We launched the “Future Executive Program”, one of As of 2019, Husqvarna Group is organized in three six leadership training programs for both new and divisions instead of four (p.3). From an employee perexperienced managers. Since 2015 some 800 managspective, this means additional staff in some regions ers have taken part in leadership training, 158 in 2018. and reduction of staff in others. For example, during To remain an attractive workplace, we aim to build 2018 the integration of the former Consumer Brands and communicate a strong and dynamic company Division into Husqvarna and Gardena divisions culture. For this purpose, we finalized the first phase resulted in staff reductions and a streamlining Group of our Employer Value Proposition (EVP) project, to functions that impacted approximately 130 employees. be rolled out across our divisions and regions in 2019. The Group also announced the closure of its manufacturing site in McRae, GA, US, impacting approxiA diverse organization mately 1,000 employees during 2019. A global organization requires the insights of a diverse workforce. In terms of gender, the share of females across our company remains stable at 34 percent of the workforce compared with 2017, with 21 (24) percent on senior levels (Tiers one to three). An updated and sharpened diversity strategy, to be Our approach to managing our teams launched in 2019, will lay the groundwork for improving diversity further in terms of gender and culture. Our teams comprise some 13,000 people across 40 countries, three divisions and a range of functions. Value driven Divisional-level initiatives will deliver the Team Challenge and our approach is To reinforce our customer-focused company culture guided by strategic and financial priorities and key behaviors. Finding the balance and promote our key behaviors (p.4), we introduced between global and local alignment for collective action and individual responsibilthe Culture Award at the Husqvarna Division this year. ity is crucial. Employees nominated a co-worker, team or project 2018 objectives included establishing a performance culture, where customer leader who reflects our key behaviors. focus, collaboration, simplicity and personal accountability define who we are and how we run our business. Alignment across divisions, technology enablement and An evolving organization engagement will achieve this. In order to secure future competitive advantage, the On Group level, shared services improve consistency across the organization Group has taken steps in 2018 to reshape its organithrough a common approach to communication, ethics and how we evaluate perzational structure, including senior leadership rotaformance. The People & Organization management team has quarterly meetings tions and redistributing capabilities across the organon Team challenge initiatives on Group and local levels. In 2019, Team challenge ization, affecting both Group and divisional levels. priorities will be: Strategic actions such as acquisitions, strategic part• Strengthen engagement and change management in manufacturing nerships and targeted recruitments were also a focus. Approximately 150 new positions were added in stra• Increase leadership capabilities through training opportunities and a revised tegic areas such as robotics and battery, marketing, leadership model sourcing and supply chain management. Plans to add • Strengthen performance and development dialogue resources were moderated by a challenging business situation and the need for cost controls. • Develop a Group diversity strategy and execute actions on all levels SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 23 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Supplier Challenge Supplier Engaging strategic challenge suppliers We are enhancing our ability to understand and reduce our sustainability risks, as well as spur innovation towards more sustainable solutions through focus on collaboration with our strategic suppliers. Husqvarna Group has concentrated on supply chain India, countries that pose higher risks for non-­ management of some 170 suppliers, out of a supplier compliance of our expectations for sustainability base of almost 2,000 suppliers, that comprise 70 perperformance. cent of our purchasing spend. We find that leveragThe target is driven by our sourcing function. ing partnerships with them – built on risk assessAlthough we are on target to meet the goal, with ments, audits, encouragement and defining shared greater autonomy of purchasing functions on divigoals – yields greater opportunities for lasting sional level, it is important to ensure that the right change and secures competitive advantages. competence is in place to build on our performance. Our target enables our commitment to work Sustainability priorities can then be better integrated Strategic suppliers convene together on environmental, human rights and into areas such as quality, delivery, risk and cost. every year during our EXCITE anti-corruption priorities by establishing transparGroup management has underlined that this is an supplier days to align priorities ency on performance and risk. All strategic suppliers area for improvement to 2020. and share best practice. should be audited at least once by 2020. Since 2015, 55 percent of the strategic suppliers have been audited – 51 of 172 in 2018, compared to 27 in 2017. Six suppliers did not pass initial audits in 2018 and are subject to corrective actions. Currently some 50 strategic suppliers have operations located in China, Taiwan, Vietnam, Brazil and TRANSPARENCY ON HUMAN RIGHTS AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS BEYOND TIER-ONE SUPPLIERS Our suppliers for our electric and battery-powered products and the suppliers delivering efficient engines for our petrol-powered products are crucial to us achieving our market-leadership ambition. At the same time, their sourcing poses particular human rights and environmental challenges. It is essential that we understand and act transparently about how they are managed. These suppliers are audited against how they monitor and control their respective suppliers as per our Supplier Code of Business Ethics. Pinpointing risks and tracing our supply chain beyond our direct suppliers for lithium batteries and electronic components has been in focus for quite some time. The Group sources cobalt and other minerals that are potentially classified as conflict minerals and are included on our Restricted Materials List. We will accelerate our focus on these types of risks in 2019 at Group level. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 24 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Supplier Challenge 2020 TARGET PROGRESS HOW WE ARE GETTING THERE 2018 RESULTS 70% 26% • Secure contractual agreements • Conduct sustainability risk assessments and audits 45% share of approved strategic suppliers 55% of our purchasing spend will Share of spend from derive from suppliers audited approved suppliers share of strategic and approved based on their • Know-how transfer and capacity building suppliers audited sustainability performance • Supplier development and business integration Shared priorities TOTAL AUDITED AND CERTIFIED SUPPLIERS EXCITE, our Group-wide supplier program, is a netNumber work-oriented, collaborative approach to working 80 with these suppliers. Through the program and our auditing process, we help suppliers build capacity 60 and sharpen sustainability practices. We also gain valuable insight into our upstream impacts. The program also invites opportunities for us to learn how we 40 can further improve our performance. In addition to audits and training, our expecta20 tions on performance are a core aspect of quarterly business review meetings with the suppliers. 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Since 2015, 77 suppliers have been audited and certified meeting our sustainability criteria. Our approach to managing suppliers With sourcing expertise in Europe, the US and China, our responsible-sourcing program reduces risks, ensures transparency and encourages positive change among suppliers. Local sourcing staff at each production facility are trained on the Supplier Code of Business Ethics and how to monitor, align and communicate how suppliers are meeting our expectations.Third-party expertise on sustainability audits complement our internal capacity. The Supplier Code of Business Ethics covers legal compliance, fairness in business relations, respect for the individual, fair employment conditions, child labor, the environment, health and safety and fire prevention. All suppliers of direct materials and services must confirm that they fully comply with our code. If non-compliances are detected, suppliers are required to submit corrective actions within two weeks. We consider child and forced labor as zero-tolerance issues. If they are uncovered, we work with the supplier to remediate them. Cases of serious non-compliance must be resolved within three months, with monthly progress follow-ups. Leaving the supplier is only the last option. New members of the purchasing team will undergo training on-site on the Code and through audits in 2019. We will continue to assess our supplier base and explore artificial intelligence solutions to improve risk assessments. The Supplier Code of Business Ethics will be reviewed in 2019. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 25 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Safety Challenge Safety Strengthened processes challenge lead to greater safety Strengthened processes on the ground have led to improvements in workplace safety across our organization. At the same time, improved tracking on product safety records have reduced incidents. The two targets in our Safety challenge – workplace and product safety – reflect our commitment to protecting employees, partners and customers. Workplace safety Our 2020 target for workplace safety aims to reduce our injury rate by 40 percent in operations, compared to 2015 performance. We see reductions in the number of work related safety incidents and we are on track to achieve the 40 percent reduction target for 2020. With a Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR)* of 5.2 per million hours worked and a reduction compared to the baseline of 38 percent during 2018. Our performance in most of our operations reflects – and at some sites exceeds – the industry benchmark for the manufacturing sector. Product safety Our target for product safety is to reduce new product incidents by 35 percent compared to 2016. Our product safety metric accounts for the number of injuries or property damage cases involving new products since 2016. The target is currently measured on incident reports from the North American market LOST TIME INCIDENT RATE PER TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE PER only. Other markets will be included when reliable MILLION HOURS WORKED (LTIR) MILLION HOURS WORKED (TRIR)* market data has become available. LTIR TRIR In 2018, 11 incidents involving products released 4 8 since 2017 were reported. This brings our product safety result down from 94 cases to 49 cases, a 48 per3 6 cent improvement. We achieved this by continuous improvements in product innovation and design, raising awareness and improved data collection. 2 4 1 2 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 The 2017 increase of LTIR is We have reduced the TRIR* by due to inclusion of Restricted 38% between 2015 and 2018. Work Cases. This includes This includes seasonal workers. seasonal workers. * In 2018, we revised our terminology to reflect TRIR (Total Recordable Incident Rate) instead of TCIR and LTIR (Lost Time Incident Rate), replacing LCIR. The indicator is calculated in the same way as with TCIR and LCIR. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 26 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Safety Challenge 2020 TARGET PROGRESS HOW WE ARE GETTING THERE 2018 RESULTS 35% Reduction of new 48% Product incident • Product innovation and design improvement • Improve incident information and root cause analysis product incidents reduction 40% 38% • Advance and mature our safety culture • Lead via management commitment and action Reduction of injury Injury rate reduction • Involve and engage all employees and partners rate in operations • Proactively anticipate and prevent incidents Safety starts at the local level Our main focus on Occupational Health and Safety Importantly, we will more proactively identify and mit(OHS) covers people working at our factories, wareigate risks through increased reporting of leading houses and service centers, where line production, indicators such as risk observations, through a manual handling of materials, operation of tools and zero-accident mindset. equipment and using forklifts pose particular risks. Safety professionals are onsite and ownership of corrective actions and preventive measures lies with Our approach to managing workplace safety every site. The approach towards each site’s safety challenges can vary depending on size of operations, Workplace safety is managed at divisional level with support from Group functions language barriers and awareness levels. Some sites and covers all manufacturing, office, warehouse and service sites. Each division conrely on seasonal workers during peak production seatributes with its share of the Group’s 40 percent reduction. Local managing direcsons and have to focus a lot on training new employtors and line management have responsibility for defining priorities, setting targets, ees. This high employee turnover rate can also pose implementation and evaluating progress against Group targets and KPIs. In addition, challenges in regards to our safety culture, accountaat least one safety professional is on site at every location. Incidents and progress bility levels and implementation of safety rules and are reviewed at weekly and monthly management meetings. procedures. By managing safety at local levels, we The OHS Network collectively identifies and mitigates potential risks and shares can better address these aspects. ideas to reduce impacts. The OHS network meets on a monthly basis to exchange In 2018, our work focused on the following areas: best practices and coordinate initiatives. • Creating an ISO 45001-based OHS management Our OHS management system that is aligned with ISO 45001, is an integrated part system. of the Husqvarna Operating System (HOS), our standardized, hands-on approach for all manufacturing operations. Under HOS, management teams regularly walk through the • Implementing a reporting system for incidents. factory to talk with workers, inspect operations and review corrective measures. This • Implementing systems to mitigate risks through system helps spur improvements in an integrated, cross-functional way. Group and local audits. Performance is reported monthly to divisional management and Group functions. Most sites apply ten common standards that address areas that pose specific risks – • Improving networking within divisions and regions. such as equipment use, warehouse safety, chemicals handling and use of personal protective equipment. Towards a zero-accident mindset When serious incidents occur, they are escalated to Group level within eight Unfortunately, some accidents incurring lost time hours and a recommended action plan is then rolled out to all sites. occurred in 2018, 150 (166) injuries required medical Safety management systems and ISO 45001 certification are acquired at site, treatment, 91 (105) of which required days away from country or regional levels. Group OHS inspections, external and internal audits and work or restricted duties. There were no fatalities. self-assessments help us remain proactive, prevent accidents, raise awareness and Forty-six (51) incidents occurred 2018 in our logistics engage management. operations, an area that has previously been of parWe conducted 10 Group OHS Inspections during 2018 and all sites will be ticular concern. We are working to further reduce audited over three years. Health and safety training and coaching is ongoing these incidents by focusing on measures that require throughout the Group, including first-aid training and stress management. In the more time and effort, but promise long-standing U.S., managers in Nashville factory took part in the well-respected STOP (Safety behavior changes. Training Observation Program). SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 27 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Safety Challenge Product safety for customers Ensuring that our products are used safely is business critical. This means monitoring risks over the products’ lifecycle, sharing knowledge as well as addressing issues as they arise. Our target aims to establish a Group-wide structure Designing and promoting development of safety feafor sharing information, tracking progress and tures, ranging from smart tweaks to product innovation, actively reducing incidents involving our products are important indicators of market leadership. As an during use. example of our approach, in 2018 we introduced This challenge is anchored in our Product Safety smart blades for our professional handheld-power Policy that sets our internal rules and guides us to cutters when it was revealed that the power cutter better understand root causes of incidents. With an could kick-back if the wrong fit-for-purpose blades outcome of 48 percent less incidents, we are on track were used. to deliver on the target, after having been an area of Among our priorities in 2019, we will focus on key concern in 2017. product categories to improve processes to manage safety, a shift away from tracking incidents as stated in Proactively managing risks our target. Safety is a priority for us. Handled improperly, our products may pose risks to both users and bystanders. New technologies may pose new risks, too. We also see that safety features are factors in purchasing deciOur approach to product safety sions, particularly among professional customers. Product development, instruction manuals and inforOur approach to product safety is threefold. mation sharing all boost safety, enhance the user • On an ongoing basis, we introduce product features and corrective actions that experience and reduce risks. prevent accidents or reduce their severity in all products The highest standards and most rigorous testing do not always guarantee risk-free use of a product. If • We raise awareness of the importance of safety to users and bystanders through an issue is uncovered, we immediately take the product information at point of sale and online appropriate safety measures. This occurred in 2018, • We help improve industry performance by actively taking part in the developfollowing indications that an electronic component in ment of safety standards across our sector. Husqvarna and Gardena branded-lawn mowers might pose a fire risk. As a result, we issued a recall of As outlined in our Product Safety Policy, every product category manager must affected mowers sold in, for example, Canada, inform the Group Committee on Product Safety (COPS) upon concern for a product Europe, Australia and New Zealand, affecting manufactured or supplied by us. COPS collates data and measures progress on approximately 11,000 units. safety performance on Group level. It informs Group Management and the Board of Directors on an as-needed basis of relevant product safety matters, depending Sharing knowledge through on the matter’s significance and financial and reputational impact. standardization work In many ways, regulatory compliance and standardiCOPS met on 12 occasions in 2018. It covers the following concerns: zation guide our work. Providing insights also helps ensure that the same standards for safety apply • Actual or potential incidents involving personal injury across the industry. In 2018, the Group was consulted • Actual or potential incidents involving major property damage in standardization processes through ISO, IEC, ETSI and ANSI committees. • A market intervention procedure such as service bulletins, rework or recalls Each product category manager carries the responsibility for implementing improvements in design, manufacturing process and product information and ensuring that we meet local regulatory requirements. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 28 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Safety Challenge Safe and effective Particularly among professional customers, we see that safety features are providing us with a competitive edge. Smart blade Our new and improved S series diamond blades helps keep users safe at their workplace and delivers a competitive edge for Husqvarna Construction. “When working with handheld power cutters, safety and performance go hand in hand with productivity,” says Joakim Ed, VP Concrete Sawing & Drilling Equipment and Light Construction. “It is important that Silica safe users know that they are using the right Husqvarna Construction is leveraging its know-how blades for the job.” to help tackle worker health in working construction This is why Husqvarna Elite-Cut, Vari-Cut and industrial environments. We supply some of the and Tacti-Cut Diamond Blades now feature most advanced and versatile portable air cleaners recognizable indicators. “Whether the job available, to be used in work situations where good involves asphalt or concrete, application markers air quality is not always a given. help ensure that users are applying the right blade Silica is a mineral found in sand, concrete, rock for the job,” Ed explains.“Wear indicators and visual and landscaping materials. For tasks such as cutting, aids provide information on the blade’s wear and grinding and drilling it is important to protect workers side clearance; reducing risks for pinching or kickfrom potentially inhaling these materials and impacting back. For rental businesses, the measuring holes will their health. help them keep track of the total wear between use.” With our acquisition of Pullman Ermator in 2017, These features provide a better, safer and more userour demolition robots – the DXR – include dust supfriendly blade. pression accessory, used to improve the filter particle capabilities. Supplying water to the tool binds airBuilding the market for protective equipment borne dust, reducing the risk that operators breathe According to the International Labor Organisation, harmful dust particles. The accessory also increases ILO, around 340 million occupational accidents occur productivity by improving visibility and other worker every year, with a disproportionate number of acciconditions. dents in emerging markets. Protecting workers by equipping them with the right clothing and accessories such as gloves, eye wear, and helmets has a big role to play in saving lives. Husqvarna Division is actively promoting its line of protective equipment. Its goal is to increase the share of sales deriving from product safety technology and protective equipment to 2 percent of total global net sales to the end of 2020, from 0.2 in 2015. The total share of sales currently lies at 1.5 percent. We have seen slightly rising sales in emerging markets, largely due to offering a more local needsbased assortment and through tailored marketing campaigns. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 29 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Community Challenge Community Making a difference challenge on the ground By connecting people with nature and helping those in crisis situations, our divisions are employing their strengths, people, products and financial contributions, to build lasting relationships in local communities. Through our product offering and engaged employees, We love parks we can make a difference in the communities where The Husqvarna Loves Parks initiative engages our consumers live and where we have a presence. employees in actions that beneit local communities. The aim of the Community Challenge is twofold: to Initiatives in four countries were done in partnership explore ways the Group’s products and organizations with local conservation and community organizacan support local communities and to create a plattions. Benefits include protecting local biospheres, form to share learning across the Group. providing training for local conservationists on using The Challenge target is being reformulated to our products and engaging with the public in their reflect these objectives. Work to establish a frameparks. Activities were ongoing in Germany, the UK work that each local organization can apply will conand two events took place in Poland. tinue in 2019. This includes a common way of measurAs an ongoing forum for dialogue across our maring the positive impact of our contribution through kets since 2015, Silent City has convened industry our community involvement. thought leaders, academics and landscaping companies and journalists to explore the role of parks for Three themes that make a difference improving the lives of urban populations. This year, This challenge supports local operations in building the international Silent City was held in Germany and partnerships to invest in community efforts in relevant several local events were held in the Poland, Lithuania, ways, aligned to three common themes. Australia, Denmark and France. • Improving biodiversity Emergency response • Promoting healthier lifestyles; and Whether it is an earthquake, hurricane or blizzard, professional products and Group competence can • Supporting communities to be stronger and more play an important function in times of emergency. resilient, especially during and after natural disasters. Infrastructure such as roads, airports and waterways need clearing and people caught in a crisis need to The first two themes are grounded on Sustainovate’s be secured. Supporting local efforts when disaster purpose – using our technology and know-how to strikes – which occurred this year in Estonia for example connect people with nature. We are a significant – are important ways of demonstrating our commitemployer in communities where our factories are ment to the regions where we have a presence. located and we are inspired by our relationships with consumers, who live for the outdoors. Together with conservation organizations and local communities, we support efforts to preserve biodiversity in fields, forests and urban environments. The third theme, to be strengthened in 2019, reflects our ambition to build capabilities within our organization that support communities and organizations in times of natural disaster. This includes deploying our expertise, products and resources. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 30 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Community Challenge NEXT STEPS • Establish a Group-wide framework to align objectives and measure positive impact of emergency response and community work • Determine Group-wide capacity for emergency relief program Estonian offices aid in forest fire Northern Europe, with its summer of extreme heat waves, has seen an unusually high number of forest fires in 2018. Estonia was one hard-hit country. A large forest fire spanning 200 hectares struck the outskirts of Tallinn in June, threatening the capital city. Seven Husqvarna colleagues in Estonia aided the local fire brigade in extinguishing the fire. Silent City 2018 For the fourth consecutive year, Husqvarna hosted Silent City, an international conference addressing blueprints for city gardens, and the role that developing parks has for improving urban challenges such as air quality and quality of life. Held in Hamburg, Germany and convening city planners, NGOs and Husqvarna Division representatives, this year’s themes focused on exploring solutions for reducing noise and how to enhance the value of trees. More than 170 guests from 23 countries took part in the event that highlighted speakers from WWF, Treeconomics and Quiet Communities. With 170 participants, this year’s Silent City event took place in Hamburg, Germany. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 31 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT A foundation of integrity A foundation of integrity Husqvarna Group’s commitment to the highest standards of integrity is reflected in our Code of Conduct and Group Policies. Compliance to the Code is expected of every employee and business partner and in every country where we do business. Confirming our commitment to upholding the princiSUMMARY OF ALERTLINE REPORTS IN 2018 ples of the UN Global Compact and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, we have zero tolerance for non-compliance with our Code of Conduct. Our approach to managing anti-corruption and integrity issues encompasses three principles: prevention, detection and remediation. The President and CEO, our Group Management and our Divisional Presidents are responsible to ensure that our business is conducted with integrity and in compliance with the Code of Conduct. Our Group Compliance Program is overseen by the ­Compliance Forum which is comprised of the Group Discrimination or Harassment, 52% The total number of AlertLine reports General Counsel, VP Compliance and Integrity, Violation of Policy, 11% broken down per category, primarily Regional Compliance Officers and the Heads of Other, 8% based on US calls. A total of 58 reports ­People & Organization and Internal Audit. The ComViolence or Threat, 8% where recorded, the majority of which pliance Forum also ensures that the Board’s Audit Theft, 4% related to Code of Conduct non-comCommittee receives quarterly compliance reports Unsafe Working Conditions, 5% pliances. Eleven cases where substantiand updates. Misconduct or Inappropriate Behavior, 2% ated and seven partially substantiated. Conflict of Interest, 2% Sabotage or Vandalism, 1% Substance Abuse, 1% Identifying and addressing concerns: Time Abuse, 1% If our employees experience or witness questionable behavior then they are required to Speak Up and ask questions of their manager or local People & Organization. If an employee is not comfortable speaking locally then they can report concerns in a variety of channels. In addition to employee reporting, in regions Managing anti-corruption where there is a perceived higher risk of corruption, internal control and audit activities, as well as thirdWe have zero tolerance for corruption and bribery and expect all Group companies party due diligence also help identify risks of to implement and monitor procedures to prevent them from occurring. Actions non-compliance. taken under the direction of the VP Compliance and Integrity during 2018 include: Compliance concerns are primarily reported through: • A revised Code of Conduct was published, incorporating nine new standards and including examples of standards and links to supporting policies. A smart phone • AlertLine: We maintain a toll-free telephone Alerttool provides access to the Code of Conduct and other Group policies through Line system whereby employees can report consmart phone or tablets cerns either on-line or by calling. Such calls can be made in native language, are fielded by a service • Improvements to Alertline reporting to facilitate on-line and call-in reporting of provider and logged into our AlertLine global concerns. The software is GDPR compliant database • Expanded eLearning and live training for employee on the Code of Conduct as • Compliance e-mail system: We maintain an email well as select anti-corruption topics, to be rolled out in 2019 address: compliance@husqvarnagroup.com where • Publication of Investigative Guidelines for compliance investigations. It provides employees and stakeholders can submit concerns. standards and guidance to local HR and supervisors The General Counsel and VP Compliance & Integrity receive the emails and input them into AlertLine HUSQVARNA GROUP · 32 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT A foundation of integrity In the 2018 Top Management Meeting, ­Husqvarna Group’s leadership teams stand behind the Code of Conduct. • Discovered matters: In some cases, concerns are reported directly to line managers or local People Managing sustainability risks & Organization, are discovered by a manager during business activities, or identified by audits. It is the The Group applies the precautionary principle to prevent and reduce risks of harming responsibility of these individuals to enter such people and the environment due to the impacts of our operations and products. matters into AlertLine according to our policy for Responsibility for addressing long-term material risks follows the Group’s delegation compliance investigation, reporting and action. procedure and is cascaded from the Board to the CEO and President, and from the CEO to divisional presidents. If we find that an alleged violation has been committed, Our business is exposed to a number of non-financial risks within product develappropriate actions are taken, which may include disopment, production and the supply chain, as well as regulatory and brand managemissal from employment and other legal measures. ment risks. They include issues such as chemicals, climate change, health and Investigated compliance matters are reported quarsafety, transparency, human rights, security and potential environmental liabilities terly to the Board’s Audit Committee and annually to upstream in our supply chain and in connection with the acquisition or divestment the Board. In severe cases, or if senior managers are of land or production facilities. They also include how turnover is impacted by issues involved, the Board’s Audit Committee and the such as unseasonal weather patterns. In 2019, we will focus on understanding Board is informed on short notice. climate-­related risks in a more systematic way by quantifying their implications In 2018, a total of 58 misconduct reports (75) were based on the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). recorded worldwide into AlertLine. Of those cases, Through our updated materiality analysis, we are also currently mapping short11 were substantiated and 7 partially substantiated term and long-term impacts of our business along the value chain. leading to disciplinary action or modifications to An outline of how the Group manages risks is included in the Husqvarna Group’s existing HR policies and procedures. See chart which 2018 Annual Report. The Internal Audit function continually evaluates and improves summarizes the AlertLine reports in 2018. the effectiveness of our governance processes, risk management and internal control. In addition to the company’s auditors, operations are subject to external reviews and Next Steps monitoring by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and Nasdaq Stockholm. Next year, we will build on these actions by conducting a Group risk assessment and create mitigation plans to address risks. We will further enhance our thirdparty due diligence program to incorporate assessment protocols which can be used to confirm, enforce and measure third-party compliance to our Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of Business ­Ethics. We will also assess our compliance program through a third-party industry benchmark. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 33 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Creating sustainable value Creating sustainable value Built on a strategy for market leadership, the Group’s business model is designed for profitable growth, bringing the best forestry, lawn and garden and construction solutions to the market by maximizing assets and minimizing waste and CO2 from operations. ASSETS BUSINESS ACTIVITIES • Around 13,000 employees Code of Conduct How every employee contributes MARK • R&D of SEK 1.6bn ET to building a successful company LE E AD characterized by integrity, trust UR ER • Equity of SEK 16.0bn LT SH and respect. C U I P G ST Husqvarna IN • Premium brands ­Husqvarna NN RA and ­Gardena WI Division TE GY • Presence in 140 countries • 35 factories and 26 warehouses Customer insights • 170 strategic suppliers Gardena Construction DEC Division Division • More than 2,000 patents EN TE TR VA • 25,000 dealers and retailers Husqvarna A LI O Operating System E IN D Z ST A G The Group’s lean manufacturing O VE SU system contributes to continuous RN AN CE efficiency and productivity gains along the supply chain. Assets: the building blocks for Business activities: what sets global operations the Group apart The strengths of the Group’s brands and its Profitable growth is the Group’s way to gener• Decentralized governance keeps the Group 13,000 colleagues are its most important ate stakeholder value. It is founded on innovaagile, flexible and responsive. Each of the assets. Long-term shareholders provide the tion, leveraging the Group’s strong brands, three divisions is organized in a decentralGroup with the flexibility to focus on sustain­ global distribution and efficiencies of scale to ized way to bring decision-making closer to able profitable growth and to invest in innovacreate differentiated product and solutions customer. The Husqvarna Operating System tion and acquisitions. As an integrated part of tailored to end-customer segments. This is (Husqvarna Group’s Lean Manufacturing achieving operational efficiency, the Group achieved through investments in strategic model), improves efficiency and productivity optimizes the use of raw materials and comgrowth areas such as robotic lawn mowers, in the supply chain as well as in other areas. ponents in production, which primarily combattery-powered products, smart garden prises plastics, steel, aluminum and energy. solutions and piloting new business models. • A winning culture engages the team. A This allows effective management of fluctu­ The Group also maintains competitiveness foundation of a shared vision and core purations in the price of and access to raw materithrough flexible, cost-efficient product manupose, key behaviors and important policies als and components. Strong relationships play facturing that easily adjusts to fluctuating such as the Code of Conduct underscore an important role in the Group’s business ­seasonal demand while always meeting the how every employee can contribute to model. Approximately 170 of some 2,000 customer expectations for quality and safety. building a results-oriented and trusted ­suppliers are considered strategic to the busiHusqvarna Group’s business model includes company. ness. More than 25,000 dealers and retailers these main priorities: • Sustainovate provides the outside-in represent Husqvarna and Gardena brands • The Group strategy aligns the objectives for perspective and is the way the Group inteacross 140 countries, delivering added value expansion and profitable growth. grates sustainability across its business. It to professionals and consumers alike. allows the Group to better address market • Customer insights: a deep understanding of dynamics and societal challenges and the needs of different customer segments. understand stakeholders better. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 34 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Creating sustainable value OUTCOME VALUE CREATED Strategic • 13 product categories for endCustomers, retailers and dealers focus areas customer segments ranging from • Safe, efficient, durable and reliable products and services Investments made in professionals to consumers • Knowledge building battery, robotics and • Channel of choice digital commerce • 200,000 connected products sold • Lasting partnerships leverage growth ­opportunities in the • SEK 41.1bn in product sales Investors market. • Long-term financial performance • SEK 5.7bn in employee salaries • Dividend payment • 54,000 tonnes of waste, Employees 19 percent less than 2015 • Fair wages • Good working conditions • 6 million tonnes CO2 emissions, • Employment security 9 percent less than 2015 • Attractive positions with development opportunities • 48 percent reduction in product Society Flexibility safety incidents since 2016 • Taxes paid Maximizing opera• Jobs tional efficiency while • Community involvement servicing a ­market • Contributions to a low-carbon economy with fluctuating seasonal demands. Outcome: sustainable profitable growth Value created: for key stakeholder groups Through innovation, energy-efficient operaThe focus on profitable growth delivers tions and engaged and dedicated teams, the opportunities for efficient and innovative Group is growing its business while reducing products and services that generate ecoCO2 emissions and waste across the value nomic, environmental and societal value. Key chain. Products in a wide range of categories stakeholder groups such as customers, invesare tailored to customers’ demands for tors, employees and society stand to benefit ­efficiency, quality, durability and safety across from this approach. It also generates income markets, resulting in great customer that is reinvested in the company through ­experiences. research and development of new innovative products and services as well as other market leadership activities. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 35 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Sustainovate governance Sustainovate governance Core to our business model, Sustainovate is the Group’s approach to integrating sustainability throughout its business. We set our sustainability priorities at Group level. In Cross-functional accountability 2018, the Group had four divisions. They each Group policies are the foundation for our decision-­ responded to these priorities through targets and making and informs our conduct and practices. initiatives relevant to their own business. As of yearThese include the Code of Conduct, and Occupaend 2018, Husqvarna Group is organized under three tional Health and Safety policy and an Environmental divisions. Networks of experts representing Group Policy, updated in 2018. On Group level, the Vice functions support divisions in realizing their initiaPresident Business Assurance, reports to the Senior tives. The Sustainability Forum evaluates progress Vice President Group Operations Development and and reports to Group Management on a quarterly is responsible for shaping our sustainability agenda, basis and externally on an annual basis. An integrated approach Group Sets level of ambition à Sets priorities, aspirations and aligns targets. à Aligns processes and Shared processes and best practice shares best practice through subject-specific Networks and Forums. à Continually tracks progress and monitors the sustainability CHALLENGES agenda through the Sustainability Forum. à CARBON à Reports progress annually. à TEAM à SAFETY à SUPPLIER à COMMUNITY Divisions à Set relevant targets and KPIs that support the Group’s level of ambition. à Integrate initiatives into Define targets and KPIs business plans. à Regularly report Drive initiatives and actions progress on targets to Group Management. Sustainovate is the Group’s approach to integrating sustainability throughout its business. Priorities are set at Group level and each division responds in the form of targets and initiatives for contributing to achieving the targets. Divisions are supported by networks of experts representing Group functions. The Sustainability Forum evaluates progress and reports to Group Management on a quarterly basis and externally on an annual basis. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 36 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Sustainovate governance developing procedures and standards, coaching and challenging diviareas, share best practice and align practices and processes. Human sional activities. resource management, divisional targets and actions are set at local The Group’s control systems identify critical processes and manageand divisional levels. ment responsibilities across our organization. At production facilities, In operations, the Group has developed its own management system plant managers have overall responsibility for operational environmental – the Husqvarna Operating System (HOS). Site-specific ISO management and health issues, collecting and reporting EHS data into Group reporting certifications for Health and Safety (OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001) are in systems on a quarterly basis. place at six facilities, and ISO 14001 for environmental management are People and Organization is similarly organized. The Group function, in place in 80 percent of our factories. Certification for energy managePeople and Organization, define the agenda, set overarching priority ment (ISO 50001) is in place in seven sites, with more to come in 2019. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 37 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Materiality Materiality – A focus on value creation A materiality assessment helps us prioritize how different topics impact our ability to create value for stakeholders and for our business. For the Husqvarna Group, sustainability is all about Six topics are deemed Enablers and support the busibuilding a strong and profitable company for the ness strategy. They are important processes for intefuture and delivering lasting financial, social and grating sustainability priorities into our business. environ­mental value for our stakeholders. By analyzing Five topics are Trust Builders among stakeholders – our impacts through this lens, we were able to deteralthough expectations are high on performance in mine areas where we can make the greatest difference. these areas, they are not necessarily among the priority areas for value creation. The foundation of our approach The sustainability agenda is a moving target. We As part of our materiality process, the Group hosted have therefore also identified an additional four topics a series of internal leadership workshops and conas Emerging Issues. These topics, including our role in ducted interviews with key stakeholder groups, startthe circular economy and delivering positive impacts ing in 2015. Discussions centered on a long list of on biodiversity, have been closely monitored to chart issues clustered into 26 sustainability topics that were how expectations evolve over the strategy period. potentially relevant to our business, related to our Linking our priority topics to an analysis of society’s negative impacts and value to stakeholders. megatrends revealed five challenges – carbon, team, Based on internal stakeholder insights, we mapped safety, supplier and community. Sustainovate includes these topics according to the degree they influence ambitious goals and leading performance indicators in stakeholders’ perceptions of the Group’s ability to creorder to track our progress. Our 14 prioritized topics ate value and the degree of their impact on the busilay the foundation for sustainability content in the ness. We thereafter prioritized and analyzed the role of Group’s 2018 annual and sustainability reports. the topic in our sustainability work (see illustration). The resulting prioritized topics were plotted along the value chain. The value chain helped us define our role in addressing relevant topics and the boundaries of responsibility for tackling them. The prioritized topics were incorporated into the sustainability strategy in various ways. For example, efficient products are central to the Carbon Challenge and diversity is incorporated into the Team Challenge. Our analysis Of the 14 prioritized sustainability topics, three – the Differentiators – provide a competitive advantage. These topics demonstrate how we can make the greatest difference to stakeholders and are directly relevant to our business. Two topics are product related and the third concerns financial stability. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 38 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Materiality Our most relevant topics Of the 26 topics on the Group’s radar • Differentiators • Trust builders screen, 14 are deemed as most material to Topics that drive competitive Topics to meet baseline expectations our business and are integral to realizing advantage defined by universal business conduct Sustainovate. An additional four topics are • Business enablers • Emerging issues important to monitor. Topics that support achieving the Topics with changing agendas, business strategy important to monitor arkets s&m t omer us wc ne upplier s Ethica in g ble s l bu ach s taina sine ss p Re su t& ra c en Effici t ic m en t es ure gem ent op e roc m ana rat P t ion len s Ta afety Health, h&s safe r h ea l t ty & we me ll b sto ent Promot ein Cu agem in g sus g y man prod tai r uct nab iversity o lat s biod le gu y Divers Re olog ity oppo & eq t on chn ments p ac M Lo e T est rtun ua financ ng-ter ial p m inv ity l im iv e zation erfo Prod s it timi Sustain rm an Po l o p uct s a bl ce uc & se e pro t re ria cing d ate pro rvic du es cts pla 14+4 Energ Re terials i n ability y& efficien t pr wate ma od uc rcycl ts n Differentiators n Business enablers OF 26 POTENTIALLY n Trust builders n Emerging issues Topics that drive Topics that support achieving RELEVANT TOPICS Topics to meet baseline Topics with changing competitive advantage the business strategy expectations defined by agendas, important to universal business conduct monitor Our materiality process Our topics cut across economic, social and • Alignment of business priorities: On the environmental spheres, and our process same matrix, we mapped topics against includes the following components: our business strategy, their importance to our corporate culture and the degree of • Forward-looking view: We mapped the impact as per the product life cycle and impacts of megatrends on the business interactions with society strategy to 2020, including an analysis of competition, stakeholders and markets, • Topic analysis: Based on the matrix, we to identify potentially relevant topics (p.5) pinpointed the issues that deliver competitive advantage, enable the business • Value creation: Customers, investors, strategy and build trust employees, retailers and dealers are among our key stakeholder groups. To • Degree of impact of our business on socidistinguish their priorities, we analyzed ety: We charted prioritized topics along each topic based on how we create value the value chain for them SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 39 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI Index About this report This 2018 Sustainovate Progress Report presents the Husqvarna Group’s approach to integrating sustainability into the business. The report is framed around five challenges that are most relevant to the Group’s ability to create economic, social and environmental value for our stakeholders. We have applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) data as a baseline. Health and safety statistics are sustainability reporting guidelines as a guide. The GRI based on local definitions in terms of what constitutes Index leads readers to information on relevant indicaa workplace injury and a lost day due to injury. The tors as defined by the GRI standards. company’s previous sustainability report was published Based on our materiality analysis, Sustainovate in April 2018. encompasses the sustainability issues most relevant to In accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts the Group and our value chain. In the report, we outAct chapter 6,§11, Husqvarna Group has chosen to line why sustainability is relevant to our business, our establish the statutory sustainability report as a report priorities and response, ways we are measuring proseparated from the Annual Report. The required inforgress and our approach to managing each of them. mation in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act Where relevant, this report also highlights how the constitutes part of the Board of Director’s report and Group’s priorities reflect our commitment to the UN is incorporated in this document. Global Compact’s ten principles. The report therefore This report has been submitted to the auditor at the also serves as our Communication on Progress. same time as the Husqvarna Group’s Annual Report. For further information, see p.112 in the Annual Report. Boundary of the report Information about our business and financial perforUnless otherwise indicated, standard disclosures in­clude mance is provided in our annual report, available here. all operations that can potentially affect Group performance. Data has been collected over the 2018 calendar External assurance year. This report covers some 13,000 employees at yearThe sustainability report has been reviewed by an end, including both office and factory workers and assurance provider to ensure that we meet information seasonal employees. Data encompasses 35 factories, requirements of Sweden’s legislation on sustainability 14 warehouses and 2 R&D centers, in 19 countries. reporting. ­Historical data have also been adjusted when it has been found to be incorrect, to improve quality of indiFor more information contact: cators. Wherever possible, the Group reports on its Åsa Larsson performance indicators covering the last five years. Global Media and Sustainability Manager 2015 was defined as the baseline for Challenge targets asa.larsson@husqvarnagroup.com with the exception of product safety, which uses 2016 GRI Index AR = Husqvarna Group Annual Report 2018 Reference 102-12 External initiatives 9, 11, 14 GRI 102: General disclosures (page) 102-13 Membership of associations Not collated on Organizational profile Group level 102-1 Name of the organization. 1 Strategy 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services AR 26, 28, 30 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 8–9 102-3 Location of headquarters 46 Ethics and Integrity 102-4 Location of operations 40 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 32–33 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 55 Stakeholder Engagement 102-6 Markets served AR 12-13, 26, 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 35, AR 17 28, 30 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Not collated on 102-7 Scale of the organization 16–17, 34–35, 41, Group level AR 2 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 22–23, AR 48, 78 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 38–39 102-9 Supply chain 12–13, 24–25 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 38–39 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain AR 41 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 38–39 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 32–33 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 40 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI Index GRI Index Reporting Practice GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessement 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements AR 70 103-1, Management approach 24–25, 39 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 38–39 103-2, 103-3 102-47 List of material topics 39 308-1 New suppliers screened using environmental criteria 25 102-48 Restatements of information 40 308-2 Supplier environmental assessment 42 102-49 Changes in reporting 40 102-50 Reporting period 40 GRI 401: Employment 102-51 Date of most recent report 40 103-1, Management approach 22–23, 39 102-52 Reporting cycle 40 103-2, 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 40 103-3 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 40 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 42 102-55 GRI content index 40 102-56 External assurance 40 GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 103-1, Management approach 26–27, 39 103-2, GRI 201: Economic performance 103-3 103-1, 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 26–27, 42 103-2, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related 103-3 Management approach AR 61 fatalities 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 42 GRI 404: Training and education GRI 301: Materials 103-1, Management approach 22–23, 29 103-1, Management approach 14–21, 39 103-2, 103-2, 103-3 103-3 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 42 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 43 and career development reviews GRI 302: Energy GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1, Management approach 14–21, 39 103-1, Management approach 22–23, 39 103-2, 103-2, 103-3 103-3 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 43 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 42 GRI 303: Water GRI 408: Child labor 103-1, Management approach 18 103-1, Management approach 24–25, 39 103-2, 103-2, 103-3 103-3 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source 43 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents 24 of child labor GRI 305: Emissions 103-1, Management approach 14–21, 39 GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor 103-2, 103-1, Management approach 24–25, 39 103-3 103-2, 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 42 103-3 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 42 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 24 incidents of forced or compulsory labor 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 42 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 42 GRI 414: Supplier social assessment GRI 306: Effluents and waste 103-1, Management approach 24–25, 39 103-1, Management approach Waste is not 103-2, 103-2, deemed a 103-3 103-3 material topic, 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 24–25 and therefore no actions taken DMA is included in the report. 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 43 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 41 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Additional indicators GRI Disclosures Economical indicators Indicator Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 201-1 Generated direct economic value Group Net sales SEKm 41,085 39,394 35,980 36,170 Distributed direct economic value Operating costs (materials and services) SEKm 29,416 28,186 26,277 27,009 Employee salaries SEKm 5,712 5,121 4,680 4,508 Social security costs and pensions plans SEKm 1,336 1,187 1,059 1,021 Payments to states and municipalities (taxes) SEKm 970 431 280 252 Credit institutions (interest) SEKm 509 500 422 344 Shareholders (dividends) SEKm 1,286 1,114 946 945 Economic value retained SEKm 1,856 2,855 2,318 2,091 Social indicators Indicator Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 401-1 Employee turnover voluntary % 9.1 9.1 7.8 10.5 403-2 Lost time incident rate per million hours worked LTIR 3,1 3,9 2,7 3,3 403-2 Total recordable incident rate per million hours worked TRIR 5,2 6,0 6,8 8,4 403-2 Fatal workplace accidents involving employees No 0 0 0 0 404-3 Performance reviews % 72 73 71 69 of white collar % 84 87 86 86 of blue collar % 61 60 57 55 405-1 Proportion of female employees in total workforce % 34 34 33 35 in senior management positions % 22 24 22 24 in the Executive Board % 38 38 38 38 Net Promotor Score (NPS) NPS 11 10 1 –5 Environmental indicators Indicator Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 308-2; 414-2 Full supplier sustainability audits No 51 27 15 2 Indicator Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 302-1 Renewable electricity as a percentage of total electricity % 58.9 43.0 7.5 0.6 302-1 Renewable energy as a percentage of total energy % 35.7 26.3 4.6 0 305-1 Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) tCO2e 28,498 33,494 34,890 42,875 305-2 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) tCO2e 51,009 79,922 108,413 122,205 305-3 CO2 emissions from transportation (airfreight & ocean) tCO2e 28,860 31,473 26,979 27,405 305-3 CO2 emissions from business travel tCO2e 12,350 13,2501 9,009 8,168 305-4 CO2 emissions intensity (Scope 1 and Scope 2) tCO2e/SEKm VA 7.2 9.9 14.2 17.4 Previously published data has been reviewed and some minor corrections (<10%) were made. Calculation of CO2 emissions have been done in accordance to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). 1 Improved data collection was introduced in 2017, 2015 and 2016 are not comparable to 2017 data and onwards. HUSQVARNA GROUP · 42 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Additional indicators 301-1 – Materials used by weight or volume Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Steel Tonnes 67,493 70,873 79,473 81,237 Plastic Tonnes 23,384 22,774 21,342 18,441 Aluminium Tonnes 918 877 692 764 Magnesium Tonnes 997 999 946 1,121 302-1 – Energy consumption within the organization Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total energy used MWh 367,533 383,664 383,361 388,361 Direct energy MWh 116,126 119,792 119,423 126,096 Indirect energy MWh 251,407 263,871 263,938 262,264 303-1 – Water consumed Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total water consumed m3 875,888 1,252,521 1,228,750 1,291,638 Ground water m3 222,443 204,934 188,063 183,584 Surface water m3 194,733 553,095 554,510 623,736 Collected rainwater m3 130 180 180 170 Purchased water m3 458,582 494,312 485,997 481,148 306-2 – Waste Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total waste Tonnes 54,424 55,592 56,264 67,478 Non-hazardous recycled waste Tonnes 43,963 45,182 46,228 57,305 Non-hazardous non-recycled waste Tonnes 7,807 7,613 7,164 7,366 Hazardous recycled waste Tonnes 345 467 437 540 Hazardous non-recycled waste Tonnes 2,309 2,329 2,435 2,267 Previously published data has been reviewed and some minor corrections (<10%) were made. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 43 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT Auditor's report Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Husqvarna AB (publ), corporate, identity number 556000-5331 Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory sustainability report for the year 2018 and that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Our examination of the statutory sustainability report has been conducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s report on the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Stockholm March 5, 2019 Ernst & Young AB Hamish Mabon Authorized Public Accountant HUSQVARNA GROUP · 44 SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION STRATEGY OUR CHALLENGES INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY ABOUT THIS REPORT PRODUCTION: Husqvarna AB (publ), Purple Ivy and Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. PHOTO: Courtesy of California Air Resources Board, p.17. Copyright © 2019 Husqvarna AB (publ). All rights reserved. Husqvarna, Jonsered, Klippo, Zenoah, Diamant Boart, Gardena, Flymo, McCull och, Poulan Pro, Weed Eater, Husqvarna Automower ®, HTC, Pullman ­Ermator and other product and feature marks are trademarks of Husqvarna Group. SUSTAINOVATE PROGRESS REPORT 2018 HUSQVARNA GROUP · 45 Head office Husqvarna AB (publ) | Mailing address: Box 7454, SE-103 92 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address: Regeringsgatan 28 | Telephone: +46 8 738 90 00 | www.husqvarnagroup.com Registered office Husqvarna AB (publ) Jönköping | Mailing address: SE-561 82 Huskvarna, Sweden Visiting address: Drottninggatan 2 | Telephone: +46 36 14 65 00
