TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ver photo: Rose of Sharon (Korea) cover photo shows flowers of the countries and regions in which we do business. saka Biz Tower, 3-1 Akasaka 5-chome, ato-ku, Tokyo 107-6325, Japan 差し替え : +81-3-5561-7402 w.tel.com （ダミー） is a trademark or registered trademark of Tokyo Electron Limited in Japan and other countries. PR57-182 Editorial policy Contents The purpose of this report is to communicate the roles and responsibilities of Tokyo Electron (TEL) in promoting a sustainable society, and various activities toward value creation. For each of TEL’s five material issues, the report describes priority themes, mediumand long-term goals, and global initiatives aimed at contributing to the resolution of industry Editorial policy 1 and social issues. Data sets are included at the end of the report, with an accompanying third-party assurance report Contents 2 attached for those items which are considered to be of particularly high importance. TEL remains committed to understanding the demands from all of its stakeholders and committed to disclosing information in a timely and transparent manner. For more detailed information, please consult the company’s website. Tokyo Electron’s business 3 CEO’s message 5 CSR-oriented operations 7 URL www.tel.co.jp/csr/ Identifying material issues 9 CSR goals and results 11 Scope of disclosure Value creation through business 13 Website: www.tel.com/csr/ Product About product competitiveness 15 Update rate competitiveness Technology for growth 16 Creating technological innovation 18 Sustainability Environmental contribution of products 19 Report Responsiveness to About responsiveness to customers 21 Information volume customers Solutions that create value for customers 22 Initiatives for integrated proposals 23 Ensuring safety for customers 25 Improvement of customer satisfaction 26 Scope This report covers the entire Tokyo Electron Group (34 consolidated companies), with some exceptions (indicated in the content). Higher productivity About higher productivity 27 Quality management/Improvement of quality in the value chain 28 Reference guidelines Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Sustainability reporting standards Environmental Reporting Guideline 2018, Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan People and About people and workplaces 33 workplaces Human resource management/Diversity and inclusion 34 Published date Career development/Human resource development initiatives 35 August 2019 (Next report: August 2020) Work-life balance 36 Period covered Health and safety 37 Fiscal year 2019 (April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019), some content also covers fiscal year 2020 Management About management foundation 39 Contact Akasaka Biz Tower 3-1 Akasaka 5-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-6325, Japan foundation Corporate governance 40 Tokyo Electron Limited Risk management 43 CSR Operations, Tokyo Electron Limited Compliance 44 Tel: +81-3-5561-7402 Respect for human rights 45 Supply chain management 46 Inquiry point URL: www.tel.com/contactus/ Environmental management 47 URL Social contribution activities 49 Data Performance summary: Social 51 Performance summary: Environment 54 Independent practitioner's assurance report 57 Corporate profile 58 1 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2 Tokyo Electron’s business Tokyo Electron (TEL) operates worldwide as a leading company in semiconductor and flat panel display (FPD) production equipment. TEL will contribute to building and developing a sustainable society through its business. Tokyo Electron Main Group company locations Sales by region (consolidated) Number of employees by region (consolidated) 地域別売上高（連結） 地域別従業員数（連結） Europe Other Other Europe Europe Europe Europe 60.5 60.5 billion (4.7％) yen (4.7 billion yen ％) North America North America 513 (4.0%) 513 (4.0%) 93.1 93.1 billion billion yenyen (7.3%) (7.3%) 1,598 1,598 (12.5%) (12.5%) Tokyo Electron Korea Korea Korea North America North America 311.1 311.1 billion (24.3%) yen (24.3 billion yen %) Tokyo Electron 132 132 billion billion yen yen (10.3%) (10.3%) (Shanghai) 12,782 billion yen 12,742 (Fiscal (Fiscal year 2019) year 2019) year 2019) (Fiscal year (Fiscal 2019) Tokyo Electron Taiwan Taiwan India 164.9 164.9 billion (12.9%) yen (12.9%) billion yen Asia Asia 2,834 2,834 (22.2%) (22.2%) Japan Japan Japan Tokyo Electron China China 7,797 7,797 (61.2%) (61.2%) 307.9 307.9 billion billion yen yen (24.1%) (24.1%) Japan Japan Tokyo Electron Tokyo Electron 208.8 208.8 billion billion yenyen (16.3%) (16.3%) Malaysia America Semiconductor manufacturing process and TEL main products ■ Wafer process (Front-end) ■ Assembly and Test process (Back-end) Tokyo Electron Technology Tokyo Electron Technology Solutions (Yamanashi) Solutions (Tohoku) Deposition Lithography Etching Cleaning (Photoresist coating, Development) Tokyo Electron Taiwan Tokyo Electron Thermal Single Wafer Atomic Layer Coater/Developer Plasma Etch System Single Wafer Singapore Processing System Deposition System Deposition System CLEAN TRACKTM Tactras TM Cleaning System Tokyo Electron Miyagi Tokyo Electron Kyushu TELINDY PLUSTM Trias + TM NT333 TM LITHIUS ProTM Z CELLESTATM Silicon dioxide film Silicon nitride film Photoresist TEL’s changing business conditions Wafer Repetition Oxide/Nitride film deposition Photoresist coating Exposure Development Etching Ashing/Cleaning Completed Transistor Before Wiring Established development/ Distributor of other suppliers’ products Globalization Innovation and new growth manufacturing functions Isolation Formation/Gate Formation Gate Electrode (Billion Yen) Interconnect Formation Testing Packaging/Inspection 1,500 1,000 14,000（予） Single Wafer Plasma Etch System Wafer Prober Wafer Bonder/ Wafer/Dicing Frame Deposition System Tactras TM PrecioTM/PrecioTMXL Debonder Prober SynapseTMV/ WDFTM 12DP+ Trias TM Synapse TM Z Plus 1500000 11,307 Metal film Metal film DRAM Logic 500 Intermetal dielectric film 3D NAND CMOS image sensor Completed 1000000 Completed Integrated Circuit Semiconductor Packaging Contact Formation Interconnect Formation Wafer Probe Testing Wafer Bonding/ Inspection Packaging/Assembly 0 Thinning/Debonding 1963 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2019 (FY) 500000 1968 / Established first Listed on TSE #2 in1980 manufacturing JV and #1 in 1984 (TEL-Thermco) FPD production equipment 1997/Strengthened corporate governance 1975 /Discontinued export business of consumer products 1994/Began overseas 0 direct operations Consumer Semiconductor Mainframe Mobile electronics, applications computer PC phone etc. FPD Coater/Developer FPD Etch/Ash System FPD Etch/Ash System Inkjet Printing System for ExcelinerTM ImpressioTM BetelexTM manufacturing OLED panels EliusTM 3 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4 On behalf of Tokyo Electron (TEL), I would first like to express my sincere gratitude to all stakeholders for their continued support and patronage. Recently, activities are being expanded in various fields worldwide for building a sustainable society, such CEO’s as an increase in United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) initiatives, and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) investment activities. Companies are required to utilize their management message resources effectively and to create and provide new value through their business activities in order to contribute to the resolution of social issues. The arrival of the age of IoT, where almost everything is connected to the Internet, is seeing the spread of big data and AI, and progress in preparation for the introduction of 5G next-generation communication standard on a global level. Semiconductors and flat panel display (FPD) are taking on a central role for the data society, and expanded application and demand for technological innovation is leading further growth in their production equipment market. Our Corporate Philosophy urges us to “contribute to the development of a dream-inspiring society through our leading-edge technologies and reliable service and support.” In order to realize our Corporate Philosophy, we strive for the steady promotion of effective governance and compliance, as well as contributing through business to the development of the industry and society, and improving our corporate value both in terms of financial and social value. In fiscal year 2017, we established three pillars of product competitiveness, responsiveness to customers, and higher productivity in our medium-term management plan, and identified two additional material issues: people and workplaces, which is important as a source for value creation, and management foundation, which relates to corporate governance, the environment, and human rights. This fiscal year, we again set annual medium-term goals tied to these material issues and are deploying company-wide activities for their achievement. Moving forward, we will continue to promote sustainability-focused management, aiming to remain a company which is trusted by the community, and in which our employees take pride. TEL became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2013 to promote sustainability management in line with international frameworks, and is implementing SDGs initiatives on a company-wide basis. Your continued support and patronage are very much appreciated by all of us at TEL. Toshiki Kawai Representative Director, President & CEO Tokyo Electron Limited 5 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6 国連グローバル・コンパクト EICC CSR-oriented operations “健全なグローバル化”“持続可能な社会”の国際的な取り組み 電子機器サプ 2013 年に署名 2015 年に加盟 Tokyo Electron’s Corporate Philosophy Participation in global initiatives 国連グローバル・コンパクトの10原則 EICC のフレーム We strive to contribute to the development of a dream-inspiring society through our leading-edge TEL is a corporate of the United Nations Global Compact the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA)1, both global CSR 1 technologies and reliable service and support. initiatives, whereby the company strives to build a sustainable management Human 原則 from foundation 1 人権擁護の支持と尊重 a global perspective. RBA: The RBA, formerly 労働 known as the Electronic Rights 原則 2 人権侵害への非加担 Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC®), was CSR policy 国連グローバル・コンパクト EICC rebranded to the current 尊敬と敬 労働者を 原則 3 結社の自由と団体交渉権の承認 name in October 2017. The CSR operations of Tokyo Electron (TEL) are initiatives that realize TEL’s Corporate Philosophy. The company pursues The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact “健全なグローバル化”“持続可能な社会”の国際的な取り組み 電子機器サプライチェーンの行動規範 sustainable operations from the viewpoints of corporate governance, legal and regulatory compliance, and business 2013 年に署名 initiative for sound globalization and sustainable societies 2015 年に加盟 An international 原則 4 強制労働の排除 原則 5 児童労働の実効的な廃止 Labour ethics while creating new value through its products and services. Based on these efforts, TEL implements CSR activities  TEL signed in 2013 to help address social issues. The company will continue to pursue CSR activities to build stakeholder trust, improve 国連グローバル・コンパクトの10原則 EICC のフレームワーク 原則 6（ 5雇用と職業の差別撤廃 つのセクション） corporate value and, by doing so, promote the growth of a sustainable and dream-inspiring society. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the 原則 7 7: 環境問題の予防的アプローチ Principle Businesses should support a Human 人権擁護の支持と尊重 原則 1 protection of internationally proclaimed 労働 原則 8 環境に対する責任のイニシアティブ precautionary approach to environmental 環境 安全衛 human rights; and challenges; 原則 2 2: make 人権侵害への非加担 Rights Environment Principle sure that they are not complicit in Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater human rights abuses. 原則 9 環境にやさしい技術の開発と普及 environmental responsibility; and 尊敬と敬意をもっ Principle 9: て 環境保全 encourage the development and diffusion 労働者を処遇する 危険の評 原則 3 結社の自由と団体交渉権の承認 Reinvest of environmentally friendly technologies. Advancement Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Principle 10: Businesses should work against および管 Sustainable operations of dream-in強制労働の排除 原則 4 association and the effective recognition Anti原則 10 強要や贈収賄を含むあらゆる形態の corruption in all its forms, including spiring society of the right to collective bargaining; extortion and bribery. 原則 5 4: the 児童労働の実効的な廃止 腐敗防止の取組み Contribution to Distribute to Labour Corruption Principle elimination of all forms of forced and マネジメント Material issues Through business activities the solution of shareholders and 原則 6 5: the 雇用と職業の差別撤廃 compulsory labour; social problems Improvement employees Principle effective abolition of child labour; and of corporate Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in システム 原則 7 環境問題の予防的アプローチ Creation of new value respect of employment and occupation. value Pay taxes 原則 8 環境に対する責任のイニシアティブ Environment RBA framework (five sections) 安全衛生 倫理  A CSR promotion group focused 環境にやさしい技術の開発と普及 原則 9 on the electronics industry CSR-oriented operations Distribution of profit  TEL signed in 2015 危険の評価 最高の および管理 倫理水準の維持 2 原則 10 強要や贈収賄を含むあらゆる形態の DJSI (Dow Jones AntiSustainability Index): Corruption 腐敗防止の取組み A. LABOR Treating workers with respect and dignity Environmental conservation C. ENVIRONMENTAL ESG (Environmental, CSR promotion framework social and governance) investment indices TEL implements sustainability management which is integrated into the E. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS developed by U.S.-based S&P Dow Jones Indices management strategy from a mediumto long-term perspective of corporate LLC and SwitzerlandB. HEALTH and SAFETY Risk assessment and risk management Upholding the highest standards of ethics D. ETHICS based RobecoSAM AG. The value enhancement. The company promotes CSR activities centered on the Asia Pacific index covers following three bodies. The CSR Management Council, the highest decisioncompanies in that region. making body regarding CSR, conducts discussions regarding the policy for 3 the entire Group and important projects. CSR representatives from around Evaluation from third-party institutions FTSE4Good: An index related to environmental the world participate in the CSR Global Committee, which discusses shortto TEL’s CSR activities have received high appraisal from evaluation organizations in various countries, and the company has performance and corporate social medium-term CSR targets, promotion of global projects, and other matters. CSR Global Promotion Committee held in November 2018 been selected as a constituent stock under leading global ESG investment indices. responsibility developed by the UK-based FTSE Representatives from each division attend the CSR Monthly Meeting, where In fiscal year 2019, following from the previous fiscal year, TEL was again selected as a constituent stock under indices Group. information is shared regarding CSR activities, and which builds cooperative including DJSI2 Asia Pacific 2018, FTSE4Good,3 FTSE Blossom Japan Index,4 MSCI World ESG Leaders Index,5 and MSCI Japan 4 systems to tackle cross-division themes. ESG Select Leaders Index. FTSE Blossom Japan Index: An index that reflects the performance of Japanese companies Conference name Participants Function Meeting frequency that demonstrate strong environmental, social  Chairman, Representative Director and governance (ESG)  Decide company-wide CSR policy CSR Management Council  President and CEO Twice annually practices.  Discuss important matters  Directors and Managers 5  Chief CSR Director MSCI World ESG Leaders  Set CSR targets Index: Companies CSR Global Promotion Committee  Heads of related departments Twice annually that have high ESG  Implement global projects  CSR officers of affiliates and overseas companies performance are selected from the MSCI Global CSR Monthly Meeting  Person in charge of CSR at each division  Share information on CSR activities Monthly Initiatives for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Sustainability Index, an ESG investment  Discuss cross-division CSR initiatives The SDGs are a universal set of goals to achieve by 2030, which were index developed by Morgan Stanly Capital unanimously adopted by the United Nations Sustainable Development International (MSCI). Summit in 2015. TEL conducts activities on a company-wide level, and for 6 Internal initiatives—CSR Promotion Award each material issue, it has clarified the SDGs it is working toward through MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index (The business. MSCI Japan ESG Select TEL is conscious of the connection between work, and industrial and social issues Leaders Index is an and development, and in order to promote CSR initiatives, invites contributions from index constructed from companies that have employees worldwide of cases of CSR in the workplace that contribute to resolving issues high ESG performance Tokyo Electron supports the SDGs selected from its parent in the industry and society. They are assessed with focus on their alignment with SDGs, index (MSCI Japan IMI Top 500 Index: Top 500 contribution to the resolution of industry and social issues, and the improvement of TEL’s securities based on free corporate value and other aspects. Based upon this, TEL conferred one CSR Promotion float-adjusted market capitalization). The Index Award and three CSR Merit Awards. targets 50% of the free float-adjusted market capitalization within each GICS sector of the parent index. 7 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 8 Identifying material issues Tokyo Electron (TEL) uses the following process to identify important and priority material issues (key issues) to be Analysis and selection addressed for the mediumto long-term enhancement of corporate value. TEL has ascertained the social and business environment, has considered the risks and opportunities, and made arrangements according to the wishes of all Material issues Issues awareness stakeholders. The company has deliberated material issues from the perspectives ● Product Social environment of their importance to both the building of a sustainable society and importance competitiveness Importance to society ● Responsiveness to While steady growth is forecast for the global economy, humans are also faced with various social issues, including to the business to lead to increasing TEL’s corporate value. customers abnormal climate conditions and natural disasters, conflicts between states and cyber-terrorism, water and food crises. As a result, the company has defined its material issues as product ● Higher productivity TEL is deepening its awareness of social environments that may affect the value chain as a whole, and social issues with competitiveness, responsiveness to customers, and higher productivity, which ● People and workplaces ● Management a high degree of relevance to the business, giving consideration to SDGs, the United Nations Global Compact, RBA1, and are items identified for enhancement in the medium-term management foundation recommendations from third-party organizations. plan, in addition to people and workplaces, which are important as a resource for creating value, and management foundation, which concerns corporate Business issues governance, the environment, human rights, and other issues. Importance to business With the spread of big data1 and artificial intelligence (AI),2 the dawn of IoT,3 and the introduction of the 5G4 next1 IoT: Internet of Things generation communication standard, applications are expanding for semiconductors and flat panel displays (FPDs) that support social infrastructure and demand for technological innovation is also growing. In these circumstances, TEL, 2 big data: To record, Examination of validity whose core business is semiconductor and FPD production equipment, must accurately grasp social trends and customer store, and immediately With regard to the defined material issues, an examination of validity was conducted at the review council which included analyze massive needs, and consider them from the early stages of development, in order to provide products for the market in a timely data groups that are external experts. difficult to record, manner. Furthermore, it is important to provide high-value-added maintenance services for improving the productivity store, and analyze with of delivered equipment, extending service life, and so on. conventional database management systems or similar Risks and opportunities 3 Key opinions and advice obtained from Review Council TEL examined the risks and opportunities closely related to sustainable business development in consideration of social AI: Artificial Intelligence issues and social/business environments such as SDGs. 4  Integrated thinking is exhibited in the fact that goals are set after identifying material issues which are linked to the medium-term management plan and which Fifth-generation mobile relate to both strengthening management foundation and creating value communication system. Social trends Risks for TEL Opportunities It is the next-generation  High-level goals as well as unique indicators are evident, reflecting an eagerness for action wireless communication  Failure to comply with laws and regulations  Promotion of environmental management system that is currently  Going forward, further improvements are expected, such as combining both outcome indicators and process indicators for goals Dealing with environmental issues or industry codes of conduct  Improvement of product environmental performance and creation of becoming standardized.  Increases in business costs business opportunities  Reduction in customer satisfaction  Generating of innovative products and services Evolution of technology  Lost business opportunities  Maintaining competitive advantage Material issues  Loss of core information  Strengthening of information infrastructure Material issues Medium-term goal Priority themes Increased reliance on cyber  Stoppage of business operation  Networking for productivity improvement  Ethics and compliance violations  Development of highly effective governance Governance and compliance  Loss of society’s trust  Sustainable corporate management  Tackling technological innovation Product competitiveness  Create strong next-generation products  Environmental contribution of products  Weakening of supply system  Creation of new value through collaboration Supply chain management  Loss of business continuity  Ongoing collaboration by building relationships of trust Stakeholder engagement Responsiveness to  Become the best and sole strategic partner  Solutions that create value for customers customers Improvement of customer satisfaction TEL learned about stakeholder opinions and requests through ongoing dialogue, before sorting through them and  reviewing the important themes to be addressed. Stakeholders Communication opportunities Key opinions and requests Relevant material issues Mediumand long-term growth scenario and associated  Quality management Higher productivity Constantly pursue higher management efficiency    Earnings announcement measures  Product competitiveness  Improvement of quality in the value chain Shareholders/  ESG surveys  Further initiatives for corporate governance  Higher productivity investors  Interviews  Sharing of market perspectives and improved accuracy of  Management foundation business forecasts  Technology conference  Diversity and inclusion  Understanding of diverse application needs  Product competitiveness  Customer Satisfaction Survey  Career development Customers  Proposal of high-value-added solutions  Responsiveness to customers People and workplaces  Maximize dreams and drive  Individual technology  Work-life balance  Comprehensive and optimal solutions  Higher productivity collaboration  Health and safety  Production update briefing  Sharing of higher-quality, timely information  Higher productivity Suppliers  Partners day  Improvement of own processes through compliance with quality  Management foundation  STQA audit standards  Corporate governance  Sharing of management messages, direct dialogue  Compliance  Support for mediumto long-term career development for Management foundation  Build a management foundation for increasing value  Human rights  Employee meetings Environmental management employees People and workplaces   Employees  Global engagement survey Supply chain management Creation of opportunities for promoting and recognizing Management foundation     Career interest survey (Japan) productivity in the working environment and the spirit of challenge among diverse employees  Coexistence of company with communities  Community contribution  Creation of employment  People and workplaces Local communities activities  Revitalization of local economies, such through purchasing and  Management foundation  Tours of factories and offices logistics  Creation of innovation leading to the resolution of social issues  Industry group activities  Product competitiveness Governments/  Initiatives targeted at climate change and respect for human  Collaboration with various  People and workplaces associations rights initiatives Management foundation  Building of sound supply chains * STQA: Supplier Total Quality Assessment 9 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 10 CSR goals and results Tokyo Electron (TEL) sets fiscal year and medium-term goals taking into consideration each material issue and its priority themes. The departments responsible are made clear and efforts are undertaken systematically toward the achievement of these goals, going through the cycle of examining the status of conduct and making improvements. Besides contributing toward the achievement of related SDGs, TEL strives to improve its corporate value further. FY2019 FY2020 Material issues Priority themes Annual goals Results Material issues Priority themes Annual goals Medium-term goals Relevant SDGs  Ensure that 20% or more (three-year moving average) of all equipment Ensure that 20% or more (three-year moving average) of all equipment Achieved 20% or more   models are new products for next-generation technologies Tackling technological models are new products for next-generation technologies Tackling technological innovation innovation Product  Maintain the previous year’s global patent application rate  Achieved 81.2%, higher than the level of the previous fiscal year Product  Maintain the previous year’s global patent application rate Create strong nextcompetitiveness competitiveness generation products Environmental Environmental Reduce per-wafer consumption of energy and pure water by 10% by  Reduce per-wafer emissions of CO2 by 20% by fiscal year 2025 (as contribution of  contribution of  Achieved for 8 out of 9 relevant models compared with fiscal year 2014) fiscal year 2019 (as compared with fiscal year 2014) products products  Achieved sales growth for major customers on the back of  Increase TEL's value to customers vigorous demand for memory  Increase TEL’s value to customers Solutions that create Solutions that create value for customers value for customers Responsiveness Responsiveness Become the best and  Increase field solutions business sales from the fiscal year 2018 level  Increase of 25% from the fiscal year 2018 level Increase sales in field solutions business from the fiscal year 2019 level to customers  to customers sole strategic partner Improvement of  Get 3 points (“Satisfied”) or more on 100% of customer satisfaction Improvement of  Get 3 points (“Satisfied”) or more on 100% of customer satisfaction  Achieved 84.4% customer satisfaction survey items customer satisfaction survey items  Implemented mediumto long-term improvement plan that Quality management  Reduce quality improvement costs from the fiscal year 2018 level Improvement of quality  Utilize knowledge and strengths within the group incorporates quality improvement costs Higher productivity Improvement of  Revise business processes to reduce staff-hours used for sales Higher Constantly pursue quality in the value  Developed systems that support sales operations Improvement of higher management operations from the fiscal year 2018 level productivity chain customer productivity/  Promote and implement front loading and traceability efficiency yield  Double percentage of female managers by fiscal year 2021 (as Diversity  Increased from 1.8% in fiscal year 2018 to 1.9% in fiscal year 2019 compared with fiscal year 2018) Increase number of training sessions attended per person by 10% from  Double percentage of female managers by fiscal year 2021 from 1.8% in Career development  Number of training sessions attended per person: 11.6 Diversity the fiscal year 2018 level  fiscal year 2018  Increase number of training sessions attended per person by 10% from  Increased from 64.3% in fiscal year 2018 to 64.9% in fiscal year Career development People and Work-life balance  Reach at least 70% of take-up rate of annual paid leave the fiscal year 2019 level 2019 workplaces People and Work-life balance  Reach at least 70% take-up rate of annual paid leave Maximize dreams and Reduce gap between health age* and actual age by 1.5 points by fiscal drive workplaces  year 2021 (as compared with fiscal year 2018)  Decrease of 0.02 points Reduce gap between health age* and actual age by 1.5 points by fiscal * An indication of the risk of lifestyle diseases in years, based on the  Health and safety results of health checkups year 2021 (as compared with fiscal year 2018) Health and safety  Ensure that the number of workplace injuries per 200,000 work hours  Ensure that the number of workplace injuries per 200,000 work hours  Achieved 0.24 (the total case incident rate) is less than 0.5 (the total case incident rate) is less than 0.5  Held discussions at offsite meetings and during exchanges  Improve on issues identified in evaluations of the effectiveness of the Governance of opinion with outside directors, in order to enhance Board of Directors consideration of mediumto long-term issues, such as growth  Improve on issues identified in evaluations of the effectiveness of the Governance strategies Board of Directors  Reorganize internal hotline and establish hotline for suppliers, etc. at  Continued to examine the ratio of outside directors on the group companies overseas (ongoing) Board of Directors, as well as its diversity, such as gender and  Achieve at least 90% recognition among employees concerning international mindedness Compliance internal hotline  Revise Code of Ethics, conduct basic annual training, and achieve  Conducted selection of outside agencies at which to establish  Establish external hotline and reorganize internal hotline at group pledge rate of at least 90% Compliance external hotlines companies overseas  Reviewed structure of internal hotlines Management Build a management Management Human rights  100% participation in human rights training  Achieved 100%  Reduce energy consumption by 1% from the fiscal year 2019 level (perfoundation for foundation foundation increasing value unit basis*) at each plant or office  Reduce energy consumption by 1% from the fiscal year 2018 level (perEnvironmental unit basis*) at each plant or office management  Achieved at 5 out of 11 factories or offices * Per-unit basis: Calculated using complex weighting of the number of developed Environmental evaluation machines, units produced, floor area, and labor-hours for each district  Maintain water consumption at the fiscal year 2012 level according to management per-unit basis* set at each plant or office  Maintain water consumption at the fiscal year 2012 level according to per-unit basis* set at each plant or office  Achieved 10 out of 14 goals * Per-unit basis: Calculated based on floor area and labor-hours, etc. for each district Supply chain  Implement supply chain CSR assessments for 80% or more of suppliers Supply chain  Implement supply chain CSR assessments for 80% or more of suppliers  Assessed key suppliers accounting for more than 80% of our management (procurement volume basis) management (procurement volume basis) procurement spend 11 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 12 Value creation through business Tokyo Electron (TEL) effectively utilizes management resources to create value such as leading-edge production technologies, productivity improvement, and reduction of environmental impact in the business processes of semiconductor and FPD production equipment, and provides this value to customers. The semiconductors and FPDs produced by TEL’s customers play central roles in this digital society, and are found in various products on the market, including mobile devices, audio/visual equipment, and data servers. These semiconductors and FPDs contribute toward the spread of technologies including 5G, IoT, big data, and AI, as well as the realization of a more convenient and affluent society. Through its business operations, TEL is contributing to the resolution of social issues, development of society, and achievement of SDGs. Value creation process through TEL business operations TEL’s capital Initiatives in the value chain Value provided to customers and society Solution of social issues and contribution towards SDGs 1. Research and development Products and services ■ Research and development → pp. 16–17 Capital through ■ Tackling technological innovation → p. 18 business activities ■ Environmental contribution of products → pp. 19–20 ■ Improvement of quality in the value chain → pp. 28–31 ■ Leading-edge semiconductor/FPD production technology 2. Procurement and production ■ Maximizing productivity ■ Quality management → p. 28 Development and ■ Reducing environmental impact production, sales, ■ Improvement of quality in the value chain → p. 31 and service ■ Supply chain management → p. 46 expertise ■ Environmental management → pp. 47–48 Providing value to customers through products and services 3. Sales Semiconductors/FPDs ■ Solutions that create value for customers → p. 22 Intellectual ■ Improvement of customer satisfaction → p. 26 property Value provided to society by customers 4. Service AI/IoT/5G ■ Initiatives for integrated proposals → pp. 23–24 Personnel ■ Ensuring safety for customers → p. 25 able to perform globally Manufacturing Social Networking Foundation for value chain Relationships of trust with customers and People and workplaces Governance and compliance Finance Transportation Medicine → pp. 33–38 → pp. 40–44 suppliers 13 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 14 Technology for Growth Product Research and development for the future competitiveness As lifestyles and business models undergo dramatic changes in the era of the Internet of Things (IoT), it is anticipated that the use of semiconductors will expand in all industries, and there will be demands for even more advanced technologies. As electronics become even familiar for people, semiconductors become a larger part of everyday life. In readiness, Tokyo Electron (TEL) formulated and released the TEL Technology Vision 2030. TEL is continuously engaged in rigorous debate regarding technology for the future and TEL’s contribution, and is actively communicating the results of this within the company. TEL Technology Vision 2030 Research and Solution provider for all industries with Development Solution provider for connections to semiconductors the semiconductor industry Ability to Employee Execute Vitality Society will experience a communications revolution due to the introduction of 5G next-generation communication standard, while the coming age of IoT linking everyday objects will see the advancement of big data processing by AI, together with diversifying services which use it, and semiconductors and FPD plays a central role in these developments. It is important that Now 2030 Tokyo Electron (TEL) promotes leading-edge research and development to meet various demands for technological innovation, and provides equipment and services to meet expanding applications. TEL strives to preserve the global environment by recognizing Development system environmental impact throughout the value chain, and offering products that are conscious of reducing this impact. The company TEL attaches weight to promoting technology development and technology innovation for the next generations, and will contribute to the further development of industry and society through the timely creation of high added-value and competitive has built a system in which its Development & Production Divisions collaborate with Business Divisions to bring highnext-generation products. value-added products into the market in a timely fashion. In 2018, TEL established the Corporate Innovation Division, which strives to further strengthen process integration capabilities maximizing TEL’s strengths in deposition and etching technologies, based on its wide lineup of semiconductor production equipment. Under this new structure, TEL has been Medium-term goals (1) accelerating technological innovation as well as cross-functional development. Creating strong next-generation products Front-loading TEL is focusing on front-loading, investing resources (including technology, personnel, and money) in the early processes of product development. The company shares its technology roadmap with customers who aim for next-generation and Priority themes, Main activities: SDGs initiatives next-next-generation research and development and beyond, and is engaged in development of the various technologies required for its realization. TEL proposes its unique technologies to promote on-site collaboration for early introduction ■Aim to build a more sustainable society by promoting further of evaluation units at customers’ plants and research and development laboratories, aiming for acceleration and innovation through innovative technology maximum efficiency of technology development and conversion to mass production equipment. ■Contribute to the reduction of environmental impact on a global level by providing products and services that are Front-loading Advanced field solutions Creating Environmental conscious of the environment technological contribution of innovation products ■R&D R&D for the future, front-loading, collaboration with consortia, IP management  Sharing of multi-generation technology roadmap with  Business deployment utilizing the industry’s largest customers number of products delivered ■Creating technological innovation  Promotion of early engagement (69,000 units) integrating analog and digital, leveraging AI technology,  Maximization of yield for customer devices and  TELeMetricsTM remote maintenance responding to developments in display equipment operating rate from early stages of mass  Predictive maintenance using machine learning Industry, innovation Climate action production, and also reduction of environmental impact ■Environmental contribution of products and infrastructure  Promotion of improvement in work efficiency and per products that contribute to a sustainable society, initiatives person productivity, and further increase in investments concerning environmental laws and regulations related to into human resources and development products 15 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 16 Product competitiveness Intellectual property management Creating technological innovation In its intellectual property-related activities, TEL’s basic policy is to contribute to increased corporate revenues by * Global patent supporting business activities through appropriate protection of intellectual property (IP). IP personnel assigned at application rates: R&D/manufacturing sites and headquarters assess each project from various angles including R&D and marketing Percentage of invention applications filed in Integrating analog and digital 1 perspectives, building IP portfolios aligned with technology and product strategies in an effort to boost competitiveness. multiple countries In this era of IoT, when a multitude of devices can connect to the internet, semiconductors are required to process Operating frequency In 2018, in order to uphold the company’s worldwide advantage in the IP field, TEL maintained a global patent application massive amounts of data quickly and efficiently. At the same time, progress is taking place in the development of (or clock speed): The number of signals per rate of approximately 70% for the eighth consecutive year, and achieved high patent approval rates (83% in Japan and neuromorphic devices, inspired by human neural circuits. Computers used in data centers that use conventional second to adjust the pace of processing of 85% in the United States). TEL is also increasing patent application in China in line with changes in market circumstances. architecture consume tens of kilowatts of power, while the human brain uses only about 20 W. Similarly, whereas the multiple electronic To increase IP awareness, TEL continuously educates its engineers, who are the foundation of TEL’s R&D strategy, operating frequency1 of today’s semiconductor devices is 5 GHz, the human brain is believed to run at just several tens circuits. Indicates the processing performance and in total around 4,200 engineers have become inventors. Additionally, because TEL often handles highly confidential of hertz. Neuromorphic devices utilize synaptic connections2 based on analog devices to replace the processing and of the computer. The higher the frequency, information including technological information of its customers and collaborative partners, the company also focuses on memory functions, which had previously been only divided between the digital logic and memory of a conventional the more power is consumed. confidential information management education. microprocessor. The aim is to achieve a higher degree of information processing with low power consumption. Furthermore, the development of neuromorphic devices requires an approach of integrating analog to digital. In addition 2 Synaptic connections: Cumulative number of technology inventors to conventional pursuit of circuit miniaturization, development is underway of semiconductors that mimic human neural A junction formed between neurons (cells 4,200 circuits, including resistive analog neuro device,3 nonvolatile resistive random access memory4 and so on. Leveraging making up the nervous its strengths in deposition and patterning technologies, TEL has initiated research efforts into new materials needed for system of an animal) regarded as having semiconductors that will be the core of next-generation computing, such as neuromorphic devices, quantum computers an important role in learning and memory. beyond that, as well as manufacturing processes for utilizing these materials. Collaborating with consortiums 3 Resistive analog neuro Along with enhancing its own research and development capabilities, TEL is also engaged in the development of cuttingdevice: Electronic devices capable of edge technologies in collaboration with international and domestic consortiums. With bases including the United States, Using AI technologies continuously changing resistance Belgium, and Singapore, TEL collaborates with device manufacturers worldwide and with global research institutes to TEL is promoting the use of AI and striving to achieve highly stable equipment operation and greater efficiency in promote research into next-generation semiconductor production technology. From 2018, TEL is participating in a global development activities. By monitoring the operating status of semiconductor production equipment in real-time, and 4 Nonvolatile resistive research hub developing next-generation AI hardware. In this consortium, TEL is mainly responsible for development that using AI to analyze that data, TEL aims to improve equipment operation efficiency such as maintenance of equipment random access memory: Random access memory raises the added value of software, such as advanced control software, in addition to manufacturing technology for chips performance, achieving wafer process uniformity, and avoiding unexpected downtime. TEL’s specialized AI department, that uses nonvolatile designed for AI computing. launched in 2017, plays a key role in the development of algorithms and other projects to use AI to analyze the vast resistance transformers volumes of data output from equipment. From 2018, the company has held AI workshops, aiming to share the latest Consortium technology trends and to boost internal collaboration, to achieve more efficient development activities. Korea U.S. Tokyo Electron development sites Tokyo Electron Korea TEL Technology Center, America (as of April 1, 2019) TEL Technology Center, Korea Addressing advancements in display (FPD) Displays used in personal computers, televisions, and mobile devices have been constantly evolving, growing in size and resolution. Furthermore, in recent years, progress has also been made in the adoption of organic EL that is self-luminous and that offers superior contrast. Such cutting-edge display production is supported by photolithography technology to create minute electronic circuits on glass substrate. Japan Singapore TEL develops, manufactures, and sells FPD coater/developer equipment and FPD dry Tokyo Electron Miyagi IME etch system. In 2017, TEL launched a product compatible with production of the world's Tokyo Electron Technology Solutions largest glass substrate, the Generation 10.5 substrate (2,940 mm x 3,370 mm). FPD Coater/Developer Tokyo Electron Kyushu FPD coaters/developers can coat and develop a light-sensitive material known as a Belgium photoresist with extreme uniformity on production of the Generation 10.5 glass substrate. imec Taiwan The air floating coater unit, which was developed independently by TEL and which was TEL Technology Center, Taiwan the world’s first to be used in mass production by TEL, simultaneously realizes stable glass substrate transfer, greater productivity, and improved uniformity. CNSE The FPD dry etch system etches various thin-film materials using a photoresistFrance drawn pattern as a mask. Important here is uniform processing in the surface of glass CEA-Leti substrates, which are becoming increasingly bigger. TEL has independently developed FPD Etch/Ash System plasma source for large substrates. By assessing and proposing processes suited to various film types and processing patterns, the company is contributing to the mass production of high-quality displays. In the field of organic EL displays, which are now being adopted for smartphones and large-screen televisions, TEL is striving to provide new technologies for developing even higher resolution and improved productivity for organic EL © CEA / Pierre Jayet displays, under the joint development of inkjet printing equipment with a partner company. Going forward, TEL will develop and deploy new technologies that contribute to the advancement and expansion of displays. 17 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 18 Product competitiveness Environmental contribution of products Environmental risks and opportunities Products that contribute to a sustainable society The various issues related to the environment have an impact on our daily lives and on the business activities of companies. Of the total CO2 emissions from the value chain of TEL, emissions arising from product use account for 90% of its total 1 Based on TEL’s specific Physical risks, such as rising average global temperatures, strong winds, disasters, and water shortages caused by climate CO2 emissions. For this reason, TEL has made it a key corporate objective to promote environmentally friendly product usage conditions change and abnormal weather, heighten the risks to businesses, such as damage to assets, increased operating costs, and design, and lower the energy consumption of its products. In fiscal year 2015, the company established a goal to reduce impacts on the supply chain. In terms of legal risks, tougher environmental laws and regulations require action at business energy and pure water consumption by 10% by fiscal year 2019, using fiscal year 2014 consumption as the baseline. To sites and with products. At the same time, promoting environmental initiatives leads to more opportunities to provide achieve this goal, the company has worked to reduce energy use and improve overall throughput. As a result, in addition outstanding environmentally friendly products, reductions in operating costs, and further improvements in corporate value. to achieving the goal for four models prior to fiscal year 2019, TEL achieved its goal for a further four models in the target Based on the requirements of ISO 14001, Tokyo Electron (TEL) identified and analyzed internal and external issues in relation to fiscal year of 2019.* Specifically, the company aimed for improved efficiency in Tactras™ Vigus™, plasma etch system the environment, namely, its relationship with the climate, air quality, and water quality. TEL also identified the environmental for 300 mm wafer processing that offers high reliability and high productivity, managing to reduce energy consumption needs and expectations of customers, suppliers, governments, and employees, as well as the company’s compliance per wafer by 12%. In addition, the company also achieved above-target energy-saving results for the EXPEDIUS™ series obligations. From this information, TEL has set the following as its risks and opportunities to address: (1) environmental batch cleaning system, NS300Z scrubber system, and CELLESTA™ series surface preparation system, including improved management by reducing the environmental impact of its business activities, (2) compliance with applicable laws, and (3) throughput and wafer-process optimization. From fiscal year 2020, TEL has set the new medium-term goal of “30% enhancing product competitiveness with the environmental contribution of products. reduction by fiscal year 2031 in comparison with fiscal year 2014 for the key models of each business unit (30% or more reduction in CO2 emissions when compared with equipment shipped in fiscal year 2014).” With this goal, the company endeavors to address not only energy and water as done conventionally, but also use of process gas and chemical CO2 emissions across the value chain substances, to reduce product footprint, volume, and weight, and the frequency of parts maintenance, while increasing Tokyo Electron (TEL) recognizes environmental impact throughout the value chain, and develops business activities that are conscious Scope 1: the lifespan, and shortening the launch time of equipment, in order to incorporate its contribution to CO2 reduction. Direct GHG emissions of reducing this impact. TEL aims to resolve environmental problems through leading technology and reliable services, in line with its from use of fuel and gas owned or controlled environmental slogan “Technology for Eco Life.” by TEL Initiatives for product environmental laws and regulations 453 kilotons 174 6,014 kilotons Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions In order to comply with each country’s environmental laws and regulations pertaining to products, TEL proactively collects 2 kilotons from use of electricity, EU REACH: An EU Scope 3 upstream Scope 1 & 2 Scope 3 downstream steam and heat information and takes appropriate action as required. An example of its efforts for EU REACH2 regulations is that the company regulation pertaining to the registration, Not from the TEL Group Own emissions Not from the TEL Group purchased by TEL investigates the presence of any substances of very high concern (SVHC) in articles, and disclose information appropriately. As evaluation, Scope 3: for efforts for GHS3 requirements, TEL provides safety data sheets (SDS4) when selling chemical goods. In fiscal year 2019, the authorisation, and Emissions from restriction of chemicals Fueland energy-related Employee Direct emissions End-of-life treatment of corporate value chains company partially revised the environmental IT system introduced in fiscal year 2018 in order to continue to share information 3 activities commuting from fuel & gas use sold products (excluding scope 1 and more efficiently with its supply chain. In addition, TEL has also continued to offer “web-based training for Product Environment GHS: Globally 12 kilotons 12 kilotons 2 kilotons Scope 1 2 emissions), such as product transportation, Compliance” to all employees, providing a description of the frequently revised environmental laws and regulations and product Harmonized System 24 kilotons Use of sold product employee business travel, and major compliance. The company also provides suppliers with information on the relevant environmental laws and regulations. of classification and labeling of chemicals Capital goods Business travel outsourced production TEL will continue to monitor each country’s environmental laws and regulations rapidly, and strive to take appropriate action. 150 kilotons 10 kilotons Indirect emissions from electricity use & heat purchase 5,873 kilotons processes 4 SDS: Safety Data Sheet (for chemical * Purchased goods and Waste generated in Scope 2 Scope 3 is divided into substances, etc.) 150 kilotons services operations upstream activities, https://www.tel.com/csr/environment/office/ Downstream Biodiversity URL 259 kilotons 1 kilotons transportation and distribution which include emissions associated with In carrying out its business activities, the TEL Group has a not insignificant impact on biodiversity, and yet without the Upstream transportation and distribution 139 kilotons purchased or procured products and services, and downstream benefits yielded from biodiversity, the company could not sustain its activities. In recognition of this, the Group will develop a framework for promoting initiatives in an effort to conserve biodiversity. 9 kilotons activities, which include emissions associated with sold products and services Upstream Downstream Green procurement URL https://www.tel.com/csr/environment/green-procurement/ TEL promotes green procurement, prioritizing the purchase of environmentally friendly parts, products and materials. The total of Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the TEL Group is 1745 kilotons, while Scope 3 accounts for a total of 6,467 kilotons, which is approximately 97% of the total. TEL believes that it is particularly important to develop products with low CO2 Logistics initiatives URL https://www.tel.com/csr/environment/product/ emissions during operation, as CO2 emissions from the use of products sold amount to 5,873 kilotons, which is 88% of the As logistics regulations have become more stringent in recent years and the demand for a lower impact on the 5 Modal shift: Efforts to overall total. environment rises, TEL has been promoting modal shifts* and other activities designed to reduce the environmental transform the means of transportation. burden of its logistics. Refers to switching the Mediumand long-term environmental goals means of transportation from truck or aircraft Medium-term goals (2030) to ones with a lower Equipment Facilities Reduce year-over-year Environmental communication URL https://www.tel.com/csr/environment/office/ environmental impact, such as rail or ship. 1% Total CO2 30% 20% Reduce per-wafer CO2 energy consumption at TEL’s environmental policy requires that, based on a shared understanding with a broad range of stakeholders, the emissions each factory and office emission (as compared with 2013) (as compared with 2018) company promotes cooperative partnerships with them, and it takes appropriate steps to live up to their expectations. In (per-unit basis, annual goal) promoting initiatives for the environment, TEL will maintain close communication with all its stakeholders. Long-term goal (2050) As a leading corporation in environmental management, Tokyo Electron works actively to conserve the global environment. We strive to contribute to the development of a dream-inspiring society by proactively promoting the reduction of environmental burden of both our products and facilities, and at the same time, providing evolutionary manufacturing technologies that effectively reduce the power consumption of electronic products. 19 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 20 Solutions that create value for customers Responsiveness Building systems for creating value for customers to customers Tokyo Electron (TEL) is building an organization to implement more effective global operations aimed at providing cutting-edge technology products and the best technology services as required by customers. In 2018, TEL strengthened its customer responsiveness through the establishment of the Account Sales Division, which leads to new technology development based on needs for next-generation cutting-edge technology such as memory, logic, and foundry, and the Global Sales Division, which appropriately provides for new needs in fields such as electrical appliances, automobiles, medical treatment, and healthcare, which are continuously expanding with the arrival of the age of IoT and AI. Each sales division further strengthens its close collaborative relationships with each business unit and moreover with each overseas subsidiary whereby it provides solutions to customers with high-quality support and a sense of speed. Furthermore, TEL is currently working to build globally unified systems and operations in order to further enhance the quality of sales and service activities. The Global Service Committee, a regular gathering of the service leaders of each department and each overseas subsidiary, shares information and undertakes in-house coordination, leading to improvement of TEL’s ability to make proposals to meet customer needs and resolve problems, including improving the technical skills and interpersonal skills of the more than 3,000 field engineers worldwide, the localization of start-ups, improving work efficiency using the work-time management system and the concept of the Total Support Center. In the era of IoT, when a variety of objects can connect to the Internet, semiconductor and FPD applications are expanding, and Process integration demand for technological innovation is growing. In such circumstances, Tokyo Electron (TEL) works to accurately grasp the TEL leverages its broad lineup of semiconductor production processes such as thin film deposition, coating/developing, demands of customers and to reflect this during consideration of product planning, and uses its strength as a production equipment cleaning, and etch to be the first to devise and develop new integration technologies that aim for reciprocal optimization company with a diverse product range to propose comprehensive solutions contributing to value creation for customers. TEL is also of multiple processes to propose to customers. promoting the reuse and recycling of equipment main units and parts, and also provides high added-value maintenance services, In response to the new growth in technological requirements for semiconductor production processes, TEL is to support the stable operation of equipment of various generations that handle a diversity of applications. TEL strives to further advancing joint development with customers from an early stage, based at its Process Integration Center (PIC), enhance customer satisfaction, which is a key management theme it has tackled since the company’s founding, aiming to be the established in 2017. One important issue that PIC is addressing is combination optimization of new deposition and related best and sole strategic partner for customers. processing technology required for next-generation memory, AI, devices for 5G (fifth-generation mobile communication system), and devices for future quantum computing. Development activities at PIC lead to the provision of the latest technology to customers and the strengthening of partnerships, for seamless work in research, development, integration, production, and services. Medium-term goals (2) Become the best and sole strategic partner EXPEDIUSTM -i TactrasTM VigusTM Priority themes, Main activities: SDGs initiatives ■Contribute to customer innovation generation and value CertasTM creation through the proposal of comprehensive solutions Cleaning Etching CELLESTA -i TM ■Ensure a sustainable form of production and consumption throughout product life cycles by responding to Creation of value for Improvement diversifying needs, considering safety and the Coating/ development EXIMTM customers, improvement of of customer environment, and so on CLEANTRACKTM customer satisfaction satisfaction LITHIUSProTM Z ■Creation of value for customers Film deposition system construction for customer value creation, process TELINDY PLUS TM Trias +TM integration, initiatives for comprehensive proposals, field solution business ■Ensuring safety for customers Industry, innovation Responsible provision of information, training consumption and NT333 TM and infrastructure production ■Improvement of customer satisfaction customer satisfaction survey 21 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 22 Responsiveness to customers Initiatives for integrated proposals Knowledge management Total Support Center TEL promotes company-wide knowledge management1 to deliver high-quality service to its customers. 1 TEL has built a system to provide global support for its customers based on its Total Support Center (TSC), situated in Japan, Knowledge In the area of field service, the company creates a database of customers’ equipment records (support and incident management: the United States, and China. At each TSC, dedicated representatives use accumulated data on information about customers’ Management approach history) which can be accessed by global field engineers, thus providing an environment that enables TEL to quickly to promote internal equipment and similar incidents, collaborating with field engineers and plants in an effort to promptly and appropriately respond to calls from customers. Furthermore, from April 2019, TEL released a system (in Japanese, English, and Chinese) company sharing of respond to inquiries and troubles that arise. tacit knowledge held by that allows engineers from around the world to search in their own natural language for information they require, from individuals, in order to encourage innovation the vast amount of accumulated technical documentation. These systems have made it easier to retrieve knowledge and to improve overall on issues, whereby the causes of phenomena that arise can be predicted with greater accuracy. This has enabled the productivity company to respond to customers more quickly and more efficiently. Field solutions business Semiconductors are seeing advances in miniaturization and integration, focused on demand for MPU1 and DRAM2, while 1 MPU (Micro Processing demand is also increasing for general-purpose semiconductors in a wide range of fields, such as medical treatment, Unit): Microprocessors or semiconductor chips finance, transportation, and manufacturing. Extending the life cycle of products is another challenge, evidenced by that mainly provide the Knowledge Management Tool demand for the long-term stable operation of semiconductors for automobiles and industry. computing power for computers TEL leverages its strength in having delivered more than 69,000 units of equipment the most in the industry, providing 2 2: used equipment and enabling the provision of remanufactured equipment restored by disassembling used TEL products DRAM (Dynamic Random Multi Database Business Intelligence into modules, modifying those parts that are still usable, and adding new parts where they are lacking. Access Memory): A type of semiconductor storage Also, the company is working to meet the needs of customers, establishing products that accommodate renewal element for computers, etc. Trouble Information models centered on 200 mm wafers, providing more added value than used and remanufactured equipment, for Machine Karte customers who produce IoT-related products using previous-generation equipment. Renewal models replace old units (Power BI2) Wisdom Knowledge Search and parts with new ones, maintaining compatibility with existing processes and offering performance approaching that of the latest equipment in terms of transfer speed, and other aspects. In addition to strengthening its renewal model Comprehensive search of supply system, TEL is also working on the accumulation and transfer of technology and knowledge related to previousComprehensive search of Service CRM device history device history generation equipment. The company will contribute to customers' businesses while responding appropriately to “Trouble” axis changing semiconductor needs. Parts Order History Scheduled to be introduced Flowof Flow ofremanufactured remanufacturedequipment equipment BKM Procurement Disassembly Production Oversea Report Best Known Method Troubleshooting Manual Serial Number Symptom Search Search Work optimization Modified parts Equipment TEL is striving to improve work efficiency and to enhance service quality by implementing precise work-time management covering about 3,000 field engineers active worldwide. A global timesheet is used for unified management of the types of tasks that engineers undertake, including work involved in starting up equipment and repair work, and the time is taken for Multi Database Respond to new customer needs them. By analyzing the work data thus accumulated through the global timesheets, the company is intent on improving New parts the efficiency of work, the adjustment of personnel, and approaching issues, leading to the provision of value to customers. Trouble Information Our products RTISS,QVICS Customers Customers Human Machine resourceKartetraining （Power BI）management of fieldTSR TEL is engaged in skills （Servise and engineers Wisdom enhancement Report） of its training structure , CAT（Call log） Knowlege Search to provide customers with a high level of service. TEL built a group-wide skills management system in accordance with standards established by SEMATECH装置履歴一括検索 (a U.S. consortium for the joint development ofCRM semiconductors) and provides service 装置履歴一括検索 with the most suitable human「装置番号 resource （S/N） Case, Work Order 」軸 placement for customers, based on an objective understanding of the skills of each engineer. 軸 「トラブル」 TEL is working on a global basis to review and improve its training curricula and content, with the aim of providing optimal training Parts Order History programs that match the skills of each field engineer. NCDR 投入予定 Oversea Report BKM TEA：YKMS, TEK：Hyperbiz, TES：WDS Best Knnown Method Trouble shooting Manual Serial Number Symptom Search Search 23 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 24 Responsiveness to customers Ensuring safety for customers Improvement of customer satisfaction Information provision Customer satisfaction survey Tokyo Electron (TEL) is committed to providing relevant safety information to customers to enable the safe handling of products. * Tokyo Electron (TEL) conducts a Customer Satisfaction survey (TEL CS Survey) every year, with the goal of making * 11 languages: Japanese, On a four-point scale, All products purchased by customers come with a standard TEL Safety and Environmental Guidelines manual. This manual English, German, French, continual improvements based on customer feedback. The survey started in 2003, aimed at just a limited number three points or higher Italian, Dutch, Russian, represents “Very describes the potential risks associated with the use of our products together with the methods for averting those risks, divided Portuguese, Korean, of divisions. It was expanded to include all semiconductor production equipment divisions in 2014, and later the FPD Satisfied or Satisfied” into such categories as chemical, electrical, mechanical, and ergonomic. It also describes safety measures applied to products Traditional Chinese, and production equipment division and overseas subsidiaries in 2016, and currently it is implemented company-wide as the Simplified Chinese and recommended methods for product disposal. The manual has been translated into 11 languages1 to ensure that customers Customer Satisfaction Survey Program (CSSP). around the world can accurately understand the information and use the company’s products safely. Under the CSSP, we conduct customers a survey of specific questions that can lead to practical improvements once a Furthermore, the company provides the TEL Safety and Environmental Guidelines together with a manual specific year. Results from the survey are analyzed by product, account (customer), and function (software, development, etc.), to each equipment, thereby adapting to the specifications of each equipment. In cases where new warnings relating to and given as feedback to customers. In an effort for improvement, the results are also shared with relevant divisions, such safety are issued after shipment, TEL advises respective customers individually. TEL is thus providing safety information as sales, production, and support. Improvements are also made continuously to all aspects of the actual survey method, for its various customers. from the questions asked, to the analytical methods, and overall operation of the survey activities. In addition, TEL pays close attention to safety when delivering its products that involve the use of hazardous chemicals In the CS Survey for fiscal year 2019, responses were received from approximately 1,300 individual customers, which is or high voltage electricity. Particularly when delivering its products to a customer’s new production line, the company 67.8% of all customers. TEL received evaluations three points* or higher on 84.4% of all questions asked. checks its facilities, equipment, and workplace safety standards beforehand according to its internal rules to ensure a safe TEL will continue to aim for three points or higher on 100% of the questions asked, and the entire company will work in environment. unity to drive improvements initiated from the customer perspective. ■ Improvement example Results of the customer satisfaction survey brought to light certain issues that would not have ordinarily been identified, and the persons-in-charge and managers who are in direct contact with customers took the lead in making improvements, with the cooperation of the relevant divisions. Continuing from last fiscal year, as a result of efforts to implement more accurate and quick responses to the demands and issues of customers, including enhancing support for software operating across multiple pieces of equipment, TEL improved the evaluation scores received from customers for all questions. Percentage of responses that TEL Safety and Environmental Guidelines manual indicated customer satisfaction Training 84.4% TEL provides its customers with training on equipment operation and maintenance procedures to ensure they are able to handle TEL products correctly and safely. Centered around its manufacturing sites, TEL has established training centers all over the world, with approximately 50 dedicated instructors conducting practical training courses using actual TEL equipment. So that the training the company provides is always of the highest quality, it uses its own certification system for instructors to ensure that training is delivered by personnel recognized as having the necessary skills. In addition to practical training, TEL also implements web-based education and on-site training at customer sites. In addition, in order to speed up its response to requests from customers, TEL is promoting the development of surveys using online systems. Through its surveys, TEL collects and analyzes customer feedback on the content of its programs CS Survey activity Plan Do Conduct survey and its equipment, and strives to make improvements based on the survey results, in an effort to develop an enriched preparation of customers training environment. Action Check Feedback to customers Analyze survey results Implement improvement Report and investigate activities in each division improvement plan Confirm progress of improvement activities 25 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 26 Quality management Higher Quality policy productivity Tokyo Electron (TEL) has a quality policy shared by all group companies which it has developed and is rolling out. 1. Quality Focus Focusing on quality to satisfy customers, meet production schedules, and reduce required maintenance even with temporary cost increases. 2. Quality Design and Assurance Building quality into products and assure in-process quality control, from the design and development phase throughout every process. 3. Quality and Trust When a quality-related problem occurs, working as a team to perform thorough root cause analysis and resolve problems as quickly as possible. 4. Continual Improvement Ensuring customer satisfaction and trust by establishing quality goals and performance indicators and by implementing continual improvement using the PDCA cycle. 5. Stakeholder Communication Listening to stakeholder expectations, providing timely product quality information, and making adjustments as needed. In initiatives to enhance corporate value, it is important to strive to improve productivity in all business activities, and to Management system continuously increase management efficiency. Tokyo Electron is reviewing and optimizing its business processes across the TEL is building quality assurance systems under the leadership of the Representative Director, President & CEO. To company as a whole, in development and manufacturing divisions as well as in sales and administration divisions, and the company provide consistent, high-quality products, TEL has been acquiring ISO 9001 quality management system certification at is promoting quality management throughout the value chain. In addition, the company is developing various educational programs various sites since 1994, and now, all of the group’s manufacturing companies have successfully obtained certification. in an effort to enhance the awareness and capabilities of each employee regarding productivity, as well as implementing continuous quality improvement activities throughout the supply chain in collaboration with suppliers. By implementing quality-focus ISO 9001 certified factories and offices operations, TEL is further improving productivity, in its efforts to build strong relationships of trust with all stakeholders. Company name Factory/Office name Certification date Yamanashi Office (Fujii/Hosaka) September 1994 Tokyo Electron Technology Solutions Tohoku Office December 1994 Tokyo Electron Kyushu Koshi Office March 1997 Medium-term goals (3) TEL Magnetic Solutions — November 2009 Constantly pursue higher management efficiency Tokyo Electron Korea Tokyo Electron Miyagi Balan Factory Taiwa Office September 2011 September 2012 TEL FSI — March 2013 TEL Epion — May 2014 Tokyo Electron (Kunshan) — May 2018 Medium-term goals, Priority themes: SDGs initiatives ■Promote improvement of productivity, continuously increasing management efficiency, contributing to the development of the industry and society, and contributing to continuous Improvement of quality in the value chain economic growth ■Promote quality management throughout the value chain, Quality management throughout the value chain Quality management Enhancement of quality in ensuring sustainable forms of production and consumption Tokyo Electron (TEL) believes that implementing continuous improvement, not only of products and services but also the value chain of all work processes, contributes to improved quality and productivity. The company strives to improve operations throughout the value chain, while strengthening collaboration within the company and externally, reflecting the needs of ■Quality management customers. quality policy, management system, enhancement of qualityrelated awareness and capabilities ■Quality improvement in the value chain initiatives at the development and design stages, Improved improved productivity in software development, support Decent work and Responsible quality economic growth consumption and and productivity optimization, response when issues arise production Marketing Maintenance Development Design Procurement Manufacturing Sales Installation and sales and service 27 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 28 Higher productivity Raising awareness and skills ■Example initiative TEL believes in the importance of every employee having a high awareness and understanding of quality, and conducts 1 Through the Quality Management Committee, Tokyo Electron Technology Solutions Yamanashi Plant implements 1 8D problem-solving DR: Design Review various educational programs to this end. In addition to the fundamental quality education that all new employees method: A method for consistent quality control, from the development and design stage through to mass production, managing the progress solving problems in 2 receive, we focus on PDCA education for all employees, including those overseas. Through e-learning courses, employees quality improvement of development, sharing quality issues, and so on. BOM (bill of materials): learn the need for continuous improvement using the iterative four steps of the PDCA cycle. As of May 2019, 93.7% of our through eight disciplines With new development projects, the Yamanashi Plant checks thoroughly to ensure quality and reliability requirements A chart of parts showing or processes how many of each are employees had completed the courses. are sufficiently fulfilled, by establishing “gates” at each stage of conceptual design, transition to release of plans, shipment used for each finished 2 product In addition, the company implements its own education program called TEL 6-Step for employees closely involved QC certification: of evaluation units to customers, and transition to mass production. in quality control, such as developers, designers, quality managers, and service personnel, through which they acquire a Quality management To ensure this initiative, session-based DRs1 are held by persons in charge of design development, quality control, 3 certification operated QC process chart: problem-solving model to handle important issues. It is a partially altered version of the eight discipline (8D) problemby the Japanese production, purchasing, sales and other related divisions, together with experts who possess technical knowledge. A chart recording Standards Association the process flow for solving method1, widely used in quality control, customized to replace TEL’s problem-solving process. The program and the Union of When transitioning to mass production of equipment, a “mass production package,” comprised of a BOM,2 a QC one product from enables thorough investigation of the true nature of problems to determine the technical factors and root causes, Japanese Scientists and Engineers. The process chart,3 a manufacturing quality instruction manual,4 a startup manual5 and so on, is prepared to ensure mass procurement of raw materials and parts cultivating skills that lead to quick resolution and prevention of similar problems arising. TEL currently uses e-learning total number of people production operations are also carried out in full, and self-process assurance systems are established. Providing education to shipment of the qualified nationwide finished product, training for delivery, and as of May 2019, approximately 5,500 employees had completed the program. In addition, the exceeds 520,000 (as of to workers and managing their skills is also conducive to activities aimed at the release of high-quality equipment. including management September 2018). characteristics and company conducts group training, focused on quality control leaders at its bases, for practical, exercise-based learning Going forward, to further develop quality improvements, ongoing improvement activities will be promoted so that, methods about resolution of quality issues, in an effort to enhance work improvement skills at production and development sites. based on an original evaluation model, essential evaluation points are applied without fail in order to maximize quality at 4 Moreover, TEL encourages employees to obtain external QC certification2 through the Quality Management (QM) each stage of the manufacturing process, from planning (concept level) through to the parts and materials level. Manufacturing quality instruction manual: and Quality Control (QC) examinations and recommends their acquisition of fundamental skills, so that they can Technical information autonomously tackle quality improvement. Since fiscal year 2012, the number of certified employees has increased each transmitted from the design team to the year to approximately 2,200 as of March 2019. manufacturing team Development project Improve DR quality 5 system Startup manual: Summary of procedures QC certification holders and warnings when 2,200 employees starting up equipment Improve business Manage shipping of (as of March 2019) processes evaluation units PDCA of Quality New employee training conducted in April 2019 Review Committee Comply with change Initiatives at the development and design stages Evaluate reliability management Promotion of front-loading and self-process assurance systems In order to improve the quality of products, it is important to avoid contamination by defects in upstream processes, 3 FMEA (failure mode and to ensure quality in each process so that defective products are not allowed to flow into later processes. From this and effects analysis): Method to grasp risks Improve manufacturing perspective, Tokyo Electron (TEL) is promoting front-loading and self-process assurance systems. In order to raise the Improve supplier quality in advance, prevent and quality degree of product quality at an early stage, TEL implements thorough risk detection and mitigation measures (FMEA1) mitigate from the initial stages of product design in an effort to suppress the occurrence or outflow of defects. The company also conducts thorough inspections in each process and verification using simulation in the self-process assurance system. Together with this promotion of front-loading and self-process assurance systems, TEL is also focusing on the deployment of Product Life-cycle Management (PLM). By deploying and promoting this concept of PLM, TEL Response to safety laws and regulations comprehensively manages and analyzes all processes from product planning, development, design, and production TEL regularly checks the safety regulations and guidelines concerning equipment, and has established systems for 6 SEMI S2: This is a set of through to service, in an effort to achieve early release of products on the market, work efficiency enhancement, quality responding to them. Equipment is checked by a third party inspection company before shipment to ensure that the environmental, health, and safety guidelines improvement, and cost reduction. equipment complies with international safety standard and the guidelines like SEMI S2.6 Also, regarding the Machinery for semiconductor Directive and EMC Directive,7 we obtain certificates of conformity from the Notified Bodies in Europe. manufacturing Market research/planning Development/design Production/sales Service/maintenance equipment Profit 7 EMC Directive: This is one of the New Approach Directives Improve profit that apply to the EU margin member states Accelerate time-toExtend lifetime market for products value of products Time Cost Reduce development costs 29 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 30 Higher productivity Software development initiatives Response to quality problems In addition to compliance with ISO and EN1 safety standards, TEL establishes design rules applicable to its own equipment 1 EN (European Norm): to achieve the highest level of safety possible. In addition to developing systems to manufacture safe products, Uniform standard for the European Union Streamlining product development the company fulfill its mission as an equipment manufacturer by establishing systems for responding to designor complimenting parts Since 1995, Tokyo Electron (TEL) has used platform software developed in-house in its semiconductor production 1 manufacturing-related issues or accidents arising from operation-related problems. of technical standards Real-time: The property not stated in European equipment, leading to streamlined operations and improved product quality. By introducing common platform software of time limitation until If an accident occurs, TEL uses its TIRS2 accident reporting system to report and share information with all levels of Commission directives the completion of work (“New Approach” the company is able to reduce the hours spent on developing duplicate functions for each type of equipment, to management, from safety and quality personnel in each division to senior management. We immediately conduct an directives) guarantee real time1 control, and endeavors to connect this to enhancement of its response capability to new demands 2 accident investigation to identify the cause and plan preventive measures. Object-oriented: 2 and technologies. A software engineering In addition, TEL uses a proprietary system called QA-BOX3 to share accident information within TEL Group. The results TIRS: TEL Incident theory Report System In addition, TEL is also adopting concepts such as object-oriented for the more efficient software development, of accident investigations are quickly implemented on the problem equipment, as well as on equipment operated while also promoting development and introduction of new platform software for development of next-generation by other customers, and, for example, reflected in design standards in operation. As well as sharing problems and 3 QA-BOX: TEL Group equipment. countermeasures through QA-BOX, it is also used to prevent recurrence of accidents. Accident-related data accumulated internal information sharing and horizontal in QA-BOX is used for the cumulative analysis of trends to visualize the types of equipment which frequently experience deployment tool Realization of smart equipment problems and the types of problems that they experience, whereby we can implement countermeasures that have an With the rapid progress of innovation in manufacturing utilizing IoT and AI, TEL is working on designing the form of future 3 immediate impact, leading to a reduction in the number of accidents attributable to equipment. Smart fab: A fab which semiconductor production equipment required in the smart fabs2 which customers aim to realize, and to develop the realizes production various software and systems that will be required there. The specialized development units responsible for advanced innovation through analysis and utilization Response to serious workplace accidents data utilization and system development cooperate with each business unit and production site in the pursuit of smart of data from all of the equipment, facilities, equipment that offers simple operation, presentation of the causes and resolutions of troubles, and autonomous and human work within 4 the fab FCN (Field Change operation through prediction of results. TEL Group Notice): Refers to general recall notice Management 3. Control 1. Monitoring Serious Actual reproduction of Visualization or accident Fire results of data analysis 4. Autonomy digitization of situation department Accident Autonomy refers to Police reporting department system Relevant divisions self-learning and self-judgment Forms after (1), (2), (TIRS) Investigation of causes and development of (Q-VICS) recurrence prevention measures and (3) Investigate and identify causes Customer contact Issue FCN4 Customer 2. Analyze Report and workplace recovery point Operations divisions Confirm spread Share with Group Prediction and forecasting based on digital analysis Safety (QABOX) division Quality Reflect in design assurance standards division Initiatives with suppliers Determine measures Revise standards Notify revision Developing strong partnerships with suppliers is essential to improve product quality. In efforts to maintain and improve 4 SPC (statistical process quality, since 2000, TEL has conducted its unique Supplier Total Quality Assessments (STQA) to enable its suppliers to control): Refers to using Service Establish statistical methods to properly understand the level of quality that the company expects from suppliers. Before starting business with new analyze manufacturing division implementation plan Permanent measures suppliers, an STQA is conducted via self-assessment to evaluate their product quality, costs, and information security. processes, take measures for The assessment also includes CSR issues, including human rights, ethics, safety, and the environment. If any risks to establishing and maintaining stable Accident information: Information sharing: Operations and information flow: quality are found, TEL representatives visit the supplier on-site to explain the problems, TEL’s expectations for the level of processes, and improve quality required. After the supplier understands the issues, TEL asks that they plan and make improvement measures, and process capability. In many cases, statistical provides continuous support until all of the improvements have been completed. The company conducts on-site audits methods indicate techniques with a focus once every three years at suppliers who manufacture important components and at suppliers where quality issues have on control charts. been found. In recent years, TEL has been particularly focused on process improvement activities using statistical methods (SPC*). Equipment that TEL provides to its customers must always be controlled to avoid variations, to ensure accurate process repeatability, and to realize high productivity. To achieve this, TEL works to ensure understanding of the importance of, and agreement to, these activities by suppliers which handle specific important parts, and works on SPC together with suppliers, in order to reduce variations in the quality of parts, in an effort to maintain and improve processes to produce good products. ■Example initiative At all of its production sites, TEL collaborates with suppliers to implement initiatives to reduce the occurrence of defective goods. Company employees visit the production sites of suppliers to learn about their production environment in order to discuss and implement effective improvement proposals. In addition, Tokyo Electron Technology Solutions Yamanashi Plant works closely with business partners to share data on parts and unit manufacturing, and to promote quality management through statistical process control (SPC), and is thereby delivering results in defect rate reduction. 31 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 32 Human resource management People and Human resource management system workplaces Tokyo Electron (TEL) regularly conducts a global engagement survey which aims to enhance employee work satisfaction and motivation, achieving growth for both the company and its employees. Questions on issues such as pride in the company and work, and awareness and evaluation of the work environment help TEL to grasp the current situation. The company uses a continuous improvement cycle based on the characteristics of each region and workplace, whereby it aims to improve the workplace environment. In fiscal year 2019, TEL established a new evaluation system to support the global human resources system introduced the previous year. The company also focused on the four topics of diversity and inclusion, career development, work-life balance, and health and safety, to promote the creation of a workplace environment where employees can work more happily. Implementation of Engagement Survey Reviewing of circumstances Consideration of Recently, it has become important for companies to develop operations that are sustainable from the perspectives of people Improvement for Improvement of Planning for measures to and workplaces, meeting the new demands of society, responding to new demands of society, such as the decline in the working further improvement measures measures address issues population and diversification of workstyles, employing people with diverse values, and so on. By promoting work-life balance, as well as diversity and inclusion, Tokyo Electron shows respect for various work styles, as well as the individuality and values of each of its human resources, treasuring the new value introduced when individuals exercise their capabilities. In addition, the company Implementation of Implementation of Confirmation of Implementation of measures, deployment is strengthening operation of a global human resource system, evaluation system, and its human resource development program, Engagement Survey effects measures in the workplace promoting health and safety, among other measures, in an effort to nurture employees who feel their work is rewarding, and who are proud of the company. Diversity and inclusion Medium-term goals (4) Maximize dreams and drive Systems and initiatives Overseas sales account for over 80% of total sales for Tokyo Electron (TEL), positioning the company in circumstances requiring extremely fast technological innovation. In order for TEL to generate innovation and continue to grow, it is essential for the company to be one where personnel with diverse individuality and strengths can play an active role Priority themes, Main activities SDGs initiatives while exercising their capabilities. TEL is actively promoting the creation of an environment where the diversity of talent leads to greater competitiveness, by developing a workplace where anyone, irrespective of gender, nationality, age, ■By globally promoting a highly transparent human resource background, disability, or stage of life, can work while feeling at ease, tackle challenges with strong motivation, and be system, together with fair appointment and remuneration, able to grow. strive to facilitate rewarding, human-focused employment In fiscal year 2019, TEL launched a Diversity Promotion Team. It conducted an employee awareness survey, focusing (decent work) on female employees, managers, regarding one element of diversity: gender diversity, achieving a response rate Diversity and Career Work-life Health and inclusion development balance safety ■Proactively develop work-life balance, diversity and of approximately 80%. The company has built a foundation that promotes diversity, through lively debate, with a inclusion, and pursue equality among people and in the greater workplace perspective, on what kind of workplace to create, on work styles, and on what is needed to support ■Human resource management development of abilities, to ensure that employees from various backgrounds, including those with time constraints, workplace Human resource management system can continue to work at TEL. In fiscal year 2020, the company will launch a dedicated taskforce to promote diversity and ■Diversity and inclusion inclusion, which it will develop with a core human resource strategy of promoting an environment where diverse talent System and initiatives, Conference for Women Engineers from around the world can play an active role and produce results irrespective of gender, nationality, or disability, while minimizing the impact of the stage of their lives. ■Career development Furthermore, TEL is putting effort into harassment prevention education and awareness activities in order to realize a ■Human resource development initiatives workplace where diverse employees can play an active role with greater mutual understanding. In fiscal year 2019, legal ■Work-life balance advisors conducted live seminars to raise awareness of the issue of power harassment in particular, attended by roughly Basic skill enhancement initiatives, global human resource system, Decent work and Reduced 90% of the company’s approximately 1,100 executives and managers. TEL is working to establish an environment where promotion of paid leave-taking, childcare and nursing systems economic growth inequalities employees with disabilities can work with peace of mind, and is driving efforts to hire such people. In fiscal year 2019, people with disabilities accounted for 2.04% of employees in Japan operations overall. ■Health and safety Support systems for health, self-care platform, safety initiatives, accident reporting system 33 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 34 People and workplaces Conference for Women Engineers Life support Since Fiscal Year 2018, TEL has held a Conference for Women Engineers, linking Akasaka headquarters with offices TEL provides employees with various programs so that they can make full use of their abilities and feel peace of mind throughout Japan via a video conferencing system, to support networking among women engineers, and to provide while in the company. Within Japan, TEL conducts a life design seminar every year for employees aged 51 or over in order opportunities for learning and awareness. At the third conference, held in February 2019, an external speaker was invited to provide important information for retirement, including how to spend their years until retirement as well as financial to talk about careers for women, and other lectures were given by young women engineers and women in management. planning beyond retirement. In an effort to support staff development, the company also conducts seminars for other On this occasion, around 100 employees, including men, participated. Feedback included comments that the opinions age groups on topics relevant to many employees, including nursing of family members and psychological self-care. from external parties help the participants to broaden their horizons, and that they were able to exchange information and build communication with other engineers, indicating that they recognized the impact of the event. In the future, the company plans to expand the scope of such events beyond engineers. Work-life balance Career development Initiatives to improve basic skills Tokyo Electron (TEL) has set its vision to be “A truly global company generating high added value and profits in the semiconductor and flat panel display industries through innovative technologies and groundbreaking proactive solutions Human resource development system that integrate diverse technologies.” To realize this, each employee must be able to strike a balance between their work Tokyo Electron (TEL) has established TEL UNIVERSITY as an in-house educational establishment for the entire company and private life, so that synergy is created between employees and the company to enable each to grow. to help employees to develop their careers and realize their personal goals independently. The curriculum of TEL Based on its global human resources system, TEL is promoting the creation of an environment to enable employees UNIVERSITY includes courses that provide world-class knowledge and skills, with training programs adapted to different to both improve their basic skills and grow while striking a balance between their work and private life. TEL works to levels and goals. enhance and offer an education program whereby employees can learn business skills adapted to their individual level, aims, and schedule. TEL provides a skill map whereby employees can grasp the business skills expected of them, a skills Corporate education system (TEL UNIVERSITY) development guide that summarizes the importance of learning and techniques for learning, and a course guide that Management Executives Leaders Mid-level Junior employees 1 OJT: On the JobTraining outlines details of lectures offered in order to support each individual in proactive study. employees New employees 2 Introductory programs (new graduates, mid-career recruits) WBT: Web-Based Global human resources system Training Level-based OJT1 programs (new graduates, mid-career recruits) The global human resources system, introduced in 2017, considers the role each individual is expected to play and their programs Manager programs Mid-level employees Junior employee programs career, to encourage proactive contribution to improving the corporate value of TEL. In order to achieve this, the system Leader programs clarifies individual roles and responsibilities, and allows absolute evaluation of the level of achievement by individuals against goals set, to facilitate more acceptable remuneration. Compulsory WBT2 By evaluating the autonomous challenges of employees, TEL is able to make their treatment more transparent, as the Business skills Management education costs company strives to nurture an organizational culture with dreams and vitality where individuals who proactively accept ¥49 M Goal-based Global communication challenges without fear of failure can flourish. programs Life support Technical programs (seminars & workshops) Encouraging leave-taking In order to enable employees to continue working while taking sufficient leave, TEL strives to correct long work hours and aims to enhance the leave system, and promote leave-taking. In fiscal year 2019, TEL set a target of 70% annual leave-taking, promoting Human resource development initiatives management to improve leave-taking rates through initiatives such as five Take-up rate of annual paid days planned leave every six months, regular monitoring of annual leave-taking leave (global) 72.5% status, and encouraging awareness of planned leave-taking, resulting in leaveLeader programs taking rates of 67.2% in Japan and 80.9% overseas during fiscal year 2019. TEL conducts succession programs to identify and systematically nurture staff who will advance into management and In addition, TEL has introduced a unique refreshment leave system. It aims to realize mediumto long-term improvement of corporate value. In fiscal year 2019, TEL conducted training for selected provide refreshments for employees and to thereby boost their motivation to next-generation management candidates and dispatched them to external training, supporting them to gain a broader work. The system grants special (paid) leave from two weeks to one month of service to employees who have worked for perspective and to build networks outside the company. TEL is also developing practical programs that meet the more than 10 years. In fiscal year 2019, 605 employees in Japan took refreshment leave, and 473 overseas. expectations and development needs of each person. Manager programs The role of managers is important for enabling value creation by each individual. In fiscal year 2019, the company conducted group training for newly appointed managers, incorporating third-party assessment and other elements in order to nurture the practical skills and mindset required for managers, including the development of subordinates, selfreflection, and personnel evaluation. Step-up activities TEL implements step-up activities for about six months from the summer of each employees' second year in the company, to encourage autonomy among junior employees. Junior employees set their own themes and targets in the workplace while planning activities, which they advance, that provide opportunities to develop learning and awareness of growth. This is done with the involvement of their superiors and colleagues. 35 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 36 People and workplaces Childcare and nursing systems Percentage of those who Stress checks In order to allow each employee dealing with childcare and nursing to adopt returned to work after childcare Within Japan, TEL has implemented comprehensive measures for mental Stress check take-up rate a flexible approach to work according to their individual lifestyle and stage in leave (Japan) health. Using a questionnaire recommended by the Ministry of Health, Labour (Japan) life, TEL has established a support system, in addition to that which is legally defined. In Japan in particular, we are working to enhance work styles for employees. 93.5% and Welfare, employees complete a stress check once a year, and if determined to be under high stress, they are put in contact with an occupational health physician or public health nurse for in-depth face-to-face support as stipulated 92.2% In addition to allowing extension of the childcare leave period until the child reaches three years of age at the longest, under law. In addition, the company also implements thorough mental support TEL also expanded measures to reduce working hours for childcare to employees raising children until their graduation for employees whereby those who wish to may meet for discussion with an occupational health physician or public from elementary school. We have also established leave to care for a sick or injured child and childcare support leave. As a health nurse in the form of a health consultation. The company also undertakes organizational analysis to deal with result, in Japan, we have achieved a return to work rate of 93.5 %, and 41 % of female TEL employees are working mothers. organizations which have a comparatively heavy burden. Furthermore, in addition to allowing paid nursing care leave up to the fifth day, we are also improving the nursing care During fiscal year 2019, the stress check was taken by 92.2% of employees in Japan. system to make it possible to take nursing care leave three times per person requiring care and to allow nursing care leave of a total of one year. Self-care platform 1 We have introduced the Pep Up personal healthcare platform, enabling employees to check the results of their medical Health age: An indicator New work styles checkups quickly, and to understand their daily health management data, such as weight, blood pressure, and body fat showing risk of lifestyle diseases, calculated TEL is continuing to seek new work styles for employees. In addition to introducing a flextime system, we are testing a teleworking ratio, as well as their health age.1 Using this platform, we hold walking events, and distribute activity trackers to help based on the results of an employee’s system that enables employees to utilize time more effectively by eliminating commuting time at Tokyo Electron Headquarters. employees in managing their diet and exercise. medical checkup. The difference in years with the employee’s actual Health and productivity management promotion Safety management framework age is displayed, helping them understand So that employees can realize a fulfilling life’s work, and at the same time, 1 Based on a culture of “Safety First,” TEL carries out ongoing activities for safety promotion. In its effort to raise the their equivalent age in Certified Health contribute to the advancement of TEL’s business by harnessing their full & Productivity overall level of safety and occupational health, TEL uses a management system based on OHSMS2 to manage safety and terms of their health conditions. Management capacity, it is important that every employee can maintain their health and Outstanding occupational health and follows the PDCA cycle, to reduce the potential risk of work-related accidents. Moreover, by 2 dynamism while at work. By putting systems in place, we strive to build an Organizations sharing information of any issues with the EHS council and the manufacturing company presidents’ council, the company Occupational Health Recognition Program: and Safety Management environment where employees can work with peace of mind. The program promotes safety management as a company-wide initiative. System (OHSMS): A publicly recognizes In acknowledgment of these initiatives, TEL was recognized as a White particularly outstanding management system to improve the overall 500 company under the 2019 Certified Health & Productivity Management organizations that Activities for safety level of safety and are practicing healthoccupational health Outstanding Organizations Recognition Program.1 Taking advantage of oriented business At each factory and office, monthly safety and health committee meetings Total case incident this opportunity, we will continue to promote global initiatives with each management, based are held to discuss measures for any workplace safety or employee health rate (TCIR) 3 0.20 on initiatives attuned Total Case Incident Rate Group company to drive efforts to improve the health and productivity of its to local health-related challenges and on issues and to conduct safety inspections. TEL has also set up a system for (TCIR): The number of workplace accidents per employees. health-promotion autonomous problem-solving at manufacturing sites, with safety inspections 200,000 work hours initiatives led by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. by representatives from appropriate departments at least once per month. Before starting work at TEL manufacturing sites, the details of the job and the risks are shared with all workers involved, and they each increase their awareness in an effort to prevent accidents. In addition, effort is also being Health and safety directed to safety managers giving advice on how to manage hazards, as well as to make workers stop work and take corrective action in the event of an unforeseen incident while on the job. In addition, TEL is implementing two education programs globally for the establishment of safe work environments. Support systems for health TEL’s program on basic safety targets all employees and is provided as introductory training for new hires as well as TEL has built systems that are mindful of employee health. Besides conducting various medical checkups in accordance 2 refresher training every third year of employment. In total, more than 50,000 employees have completed this program. Line-care: A workplace with the law, TEL also offers face-to-face consultations by designated occupational health physicians for employees who measure for mental ‘Our other program, advanced safety, targets employees working in cleanrooms and on production lines. Participants health, in which work long hours. We have also set up health help desks supported by occupational health physicians so that employees managers and are required to complete the course every year. Some portions of rules pertaining to safety are based on Japanese law, and their families can seek advice if they have any health issues to discuss. TEL also offers counseling services supported supervisors take a lead therefore when employees are transferred overseas, they undertake training regarding any differences in a language that role in responding to by external industrial counselors if requested by an employee. Regular “line-care”2 seminars are also held, targeted at line requests by workers they understand, with the aim of standardizing the company’s education. for advice, with an managers. aim of improving the To eliminate accidents, TEL also provides risk assessment training and web-based training at offices and factories in In fiscal year 2019, in order to strengthen its support structure, we held liaison meetings with the designated workplace environment Japan and overseas. Finally, we also provide safety information to suppliers as part of support for initiatives to prevent occupational health physicians at each company to share information on current issues faced by the Group. In the future, accidents. we will continue to steadily carry out initiatives to resolve these issues. As a result of having maintained a high priority on creating safe work environments, TCIR3 has been maintained at or below the company’s target of 0.5, with 0.19 in fiscal year 2019. Wellness declaration Based on the wellness declaration announced in 2012, we have promoted the Accident reporting system improvement of employees’ exercise habits based on a program of Eat-RestIf a safety-related accident occurs, the information is shared with related parties and persons in charge through the Walk-Talk. In regards to the “Eat” aspect, the renovated company cafeteria at accident reporting system, creating a system which resolves issues and leads to the proposal of measures to prevent Fuchu regional office offers healthy food choices. In addition, nine of our plants reoccurrence. and offices in Japan offer activities to support daily health development, such as In Fiscal Year 2020, the company commenced operation of TEL Incident Report System (TIRS), a newly developed body composition measurement sessions. accident reporting system, to further improve the accuracy of report content. Company cafeteria at Fuchu Technology Center incorporating SDGs colors 37 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 38 Corporate governance Management Sustainability of a Board of Directors appropriate for resolution of management issues foundation Based on an effective governance structure that supports improving corporate value over the mediumto long-term, in order for the Board of Directors to fulfill its roles and responsibilities, Tokyo Electron (TEL) is committed to both assembling talented people with a good balance of knowledge, experience, and skills and ensuring diversity, as well as working to nurture the next generation of management personnel. In addition, by operating a Board of Directors capable of properly overseeing and evaluating (monitoring) the strategic decision making of the management team responsible for business execution, TEL is putting effort into maintaining the sustainability of a Board of Directors appropriate for resolving management issues. Diagram of the corporate governance framework, internal control system, and risk management framework * CSS: Corporate Senior Staff Shareholders' Meeting Appointment or Appointment or Appointment or dismissal dismissal dismissal Audit & Board of Directors Supervisory Board Independent Auditors Audit Cooperate Nomination Committee / Compensation Committee Audit Cooperate Cooperate In recent years, the role played by companies has become more important for establishing a sustainable society. Furthermore, Business execution Representative in the area of investment, ESG investment, which emphasizes corporate environmental, social, and governance initiatives, is Directors Audit becoming mainstream. In these circumstances, companies are required to steadily develop highly effective governance, to build a solid management foundation that forms the basis of business activities, to contribute to solving environmental and social issues, CSS* & Executive Internal Control Executive Officer Internal Audit Dept. Officers and to creating new value. Tokyo Electron is working to further improve its governance system, including a review of the Board Risk Management Executive Officer (Global Audit Center) of Directors, and to ensure compliance throughout the Group, recognizing that corporate governance is essential to sustainable Compliance Executive Officer growth. In regards to the environment, the company is conscious of exacerbation of climate change and abnormal weather, and has established a new mediumto long-term environmental vision, and is proactively working to reduce the environmental impact Various committees of business activities. In addition, the company is promoting activities in compliance with global standards to achieve sustainable ● Ethics Committee operations not only within the company, but throughout the supply chain. TEL endeavors to build a strong and sound management ● Information Security Committee Audit foundation and aims to further enhance its corporate value. ● Export Trade Control Committee Departments responsible ● Risk Management (General Affairs Dept.) Medium-term goals (5) ● Compliance (Compliance Dept.) Building a management foundation for increasing value Business Execution Organization (All Division / All TEL Group companies) Priority themes, Main activities SDGs initiatives ■Steadily developing highly effective governance and establishing a solid management base in order to contribute to the Corporate governance framework development of society in order to improve corporate value TEL adopts the Audit & Supervisory Board System, consisting of a Board of Directors and an Audit & Supervisory Board. Currently, among the 16 members who attend the Board of Directors meeting, which includes Audit & Supervisory Board Governance and Human Environmental Supply chain ■Promoting compliance as an important business strategy, and members, there are six outside directors and statutory auditors, including three independent outside directors, and three compliance rights management management developing operations in consideration of the environment outside Audit & Supervisory Board members. Independent outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members and human rights, in order to contribute to the creation of a express frank opinions from an independent standpoint so that discussions by directors coming from within the company ■Corporate governance sustainable, fair, and equal society do not tend toward homogeneity. This guides discussion within the Board of Directors in an appropriate direction so that Supervision and evaluation of strategic decision-making, profit the company can be competitive and succeed globally. TEL believes the lively exchange of opinions arising from proactive sharing policy, design and results of director compensation comments by independent outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members is the foundation supporting optimal system, process of effectiveness evaluation of Board of decisions at TEL’s Board of Directors meetings. The Board of Directors works to achieve sustainable growth and to increase Directors, management issues corporate value over the mediumto long-term based on its fiduciary responsibility to shareholders. Furthermore, it strives to ■Risk management ■Compliance ■Respect for human rights achieve an appropriate sense of productive tension and constructive debate through the presence of executive directors, who ■Supply chain management Procurement initiatives possess diverse experience, knowledge, and achievements, and outside directors, who maintain objectivity. ■Environmental management The Audit & Supervisory Board provides a structure that enables its board members to obtain sufficient information Global warming prevention/energy-saving initiatives, renewable necessary for audits by collecting information through on-site surveys conducted by full-time Audit & Supervisory Board energy initiatives, water consumption reduction initiatives, Decent work and Climate Peace, justice and economic growth strong institutions members, and by ensuring appropriate coordination with the Internal Audit Department and Independent Auditors. waste reduction initiatives, chemical substance management, action promotion of green procurement Established to ensure fair, effective, and transparent management, the Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee support growth-oriented governance for TEL by making proposals to the Board of Directors regarding the ■TEL FOR GOOD Social contribution activities election of candidates for the management team and regarding compensation. 39 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 40 Management foundation Skills and diversity of the president and management team Planning and outcomes of the director compensation system In the selection of executive directors, the Nomination Committee emphasizes people with outstanding execution capabilities backed by experience, knowledge, and achievements as a manager. They must also possess high sensitivity Compensation Committee to all risks and the ability to accurately analyze and judge them. Furthermore, they are required to be able to directly In order to secure transparency and fairness in management and appropriateness of compensation, the company has express their honest opinions in meetings. At the same time, in order to ensure constructive discussion incorporating established the Compensation Committee, which is composed of three or more directors (excluding representative diverse backgrounds and expertise, personnel with an in-depth knowledge of all departments are proposed to the Board directors), including an independent outside director. The Compensation Committee obtains advice from external of Directors as director candidates, taking into consideration the balance between Sales and Service, Manufacturing, R&D, experts, and analyzes and compares compensation levels and other details with high-tech companies inside and outside and Corporate Administration. Japan. Based on this analysis, it makes proposals to the Board of Directors regarding the compensation policy for directors In addition, based on the TEL Succession Plan, we endeavor to nurture successor candidates, in particular from among and executive officers, the most appropriate, globally competitive compensation system for the TEL Group, as well as executive officers, who will be responsible for the next generation of executive management. Furthermore, through the individual compensation amounts for the Representative Directors. execution of daily duties, the CEO and Representative Director assesses successor candidates from various perspectives, including capability, character, quality, and discernment, and provides constant support for them by arranging Annual performance-linked compensation opportunities such as job rotation and training. In regards to Corporate Director compensation, TEL uses a profit-sharing style method of calculating compensation that determines the level of annual performance-linked compensation linked to the actual net income attributable to owners Skills and diversity of outside directors of the parent company. In addition, from fiscal year 2019, TEL has decided to have the Compensation Committee assess With regards to independent outside directors or outside Audit & Supervisory Board members, they are required to the individual performance of Representative Directors and to reflect this in the individual annual performance-linked express frank opinions from an independent standpoint whereby they can guide discussion within the Board of Directors compensation amount. in an appropriate direction so that the company can be competitive and succeed globally. In making these selections, TEL aims to assemble talented people with a balance of knowledge of global business, broad insight into related industries, an Medium-term performance-linked compensation extensive network of personal contacts, objectivity from the social, capital market, and other perspectives, knowledge of TEL has introduced a medium-term performance-linked compensation system in order to link Corporate Director finance and accounting, broad legal knowledge. In addition to requirements under the Company Act, TEL has established compensation amounts to medium-term corporate value improvements. The payout rate varies between 0% and separately specified Independence Requirements to avoid conflicts of interest with general shareholders, and to ensure 150% according to performance goal achievement levels for the three-year period covered, relative to a base amount the independence of outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members. calculated based on the position and responsibilities of each Corporate Director. The consolidated operating margin and consolidated ROE are used as performance indicators. Supervision and evaluation of strategic decision-making The TEL Board of Directors convenes approximately nine times per year by ensuring sufficient time for debate. The Process for evaluating the effectiveness of the Board of Directors and management issues Board of Directors meeting annual schedule is set in an effort to provide sufficient time for debate and to increase the TEL discusses and evaluates the effectiveness of the Board of Directors every year in accordance with the TEL attendance by all directors, including outside directors. In addition, prior explanations are provided to outside directors Corporate Governance Guidelines. This fiscal year, TEL again conducted a questionnaire of all directors and Audit & and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members in a timely manner from the administrative office. TEL strives to provide Supervisory Board members regarding the effectiveness of the Board of Directors, the Nomination Committee, and the sufficient information to and dialog among independent outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, Compensation Committee. In addition to the results of this questionnaire, exchange of opinion and deliberation was and, for example, in regards to matters of particular importance, TEL establishes a venue for dialog with TEL executive held, mainly among outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members, which was shared with the whole management in advance. Board of Directors in order to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. For this questionnaire, in its effort to obtain highly objective supervisory insight and evaluation, the company seeks perspective and input from external Policies for allocation of earnings consultants, and analyzes the results. Issues which became apparent as a result of analysis and evaluation are debated TEL’s basic approach is for appropriate allocation of company earnings to all stakeholders. in depth by the Board of Directors, and efforts are taken to make improvements as appropriate. Based upon this, TEL TEL’s basic policy of allocation to shareholders is to link dividend payments to business performance on an ongoing believes that the Board of Directors, including the Nomination Committee and Compensation Committee, is functioning basis for a payout ratio of around 50% based on net income attributable to owners of the parent company. effectively and fulfilling its role as stipulated in the TEL Corporate Governance Guidelines “Establishing management TEL effectively uses internal capital reserves to raise corporate value through earnings growth by concentrating strategy and vision,” “Making major operational decisions based on strategic direction,” and “Engaging in constructive, investment in high-growth areas and provide returns directly to shareholders by linking dividend payments to business open-minded debate.” performance and earnings. Furthermore, the company flexibly implements share buybacks as part of shareholder returns. Management issues identified through the process of evaluating effectiveness are discussed at Board of Directors meetings by Corporate Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members with a diversity of opinions and experience. Aside from Board of Directors meetings, separate off-site meetings are also held as an opportunity for focused discussion away from individual matters for resolution. Dividend payout ratio: 50% Annual DPS of not less than 150 yen Review dividend policy if the company does not generate net income for two consecutive fiscal years. Off-site meetings are held at outside facilities. 41 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 42 Management foundation Risk management Compliance Approach to risk management Approach to compliance Reflecting changes in society and the business environment, the risks facing businesses are growing increasingly complex Stakeholder trust is essential to business activities. In order to maintain this trust, it is essential to ensure compliance and and diverse. TEL considers understanding and appropriately addressing the risks that it may face in its businesses, as well enhance corporate ethics continuously. The Fundamental Policies concerning Internal Controls within the Tokyo Electron as their impacts, to be a crucial factor to sustainable corporate growth. (TEL) Group and TEL‘s Code of Ethics (Code of Ethics) stipulate that all TEL Group executives and employees must comply with laws and regulations and act with high ethical standards and a strong awareness of compliance. Risk management system In order to promote more effective risk management, TEL carries out enterprise risk management through a body established within the General Affairs Department at its headquarters. This body supervises risk management, analyzing Compliance systems and initiatives a wide range of risks arising in business activities (such as compliance risk, human resource and labor risk, and business continuity risks) to identify key risks. It then monitors the management of these risks by the respective departments Compliance system responsible and supports their risk management activities. The status of these activities is regularly reported to the Board TEL has built a structure to implement its compliance program globally. Under the head of the Legal, Compliance Division, of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board. compliance representatives have been newly appointed at major overseas bases to create a system for direct reporting through the chain of command to the Legal, Compliance Division. The company has restructured its compliance system. Auditing by the internal audit department Specifically, compliance-related issues are immediately reported by the head of the Legal, Compliance Division to the The Global Audit Center serves as the internal audit department for the entire Group and implements audits based on the CEO, Board of Directors, and the Audit & Supervisory Board so that they can be addressed quickly and effectively. audit plan. Based on the results of these audits, the Center then gives instructions for making improvements as needed, follows up on progress toward these improvements and provides support. The Group’s internal control over financial Corporate ethics reporting in fiscal 2019 was evaluated as effective by the independent auditors. TEL has established the Code of Ethics as a standard of conduct by which employees and executives should abide. To ensure awareness of this code, we distribute it in the form of booklets in Japanese and four other languages to all Risk Management Initiatives employees. TEL revises its Code of Ethics as needed, in response to changes to external and internal conditions. In Each year, we set priority management targets and strive to steadily reduce risk. In fiscal 2019, we reinforced measures in addition, an Ethics Committee has been established to support and supervise the activities of Group companies in the following areas. Japan and overseas aimed at more effectively promoting and raising awareness of compliance and corporate ethics. Furthermore, directors, officers, and senior executives sign an oath to uphold the Code of Ethics and comply with Compliance corruption-related laws every year. We appointed people responsible for compliance at key overseas bases and established a system whereby they report the progress of compliance-related activities to the Group headquarters each month. In addition, compliance risk audits are Compliance regulations conducted through systematic visits to overseas subsidiaries. Based on its Code of Ethics, each Group company in Japan and abroad has established its own compliance regulations to ensure that every individual taking part in the business activities of the Group clearly understands the pertinent laws, Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) regulations and internal company rules, and consistently apply these in all of their activities. TEL is improving its plans based on lessons from past disasters and is surveying the earthquake risks at its overseas locations. We are also working, on an ongoing basis, to establish alternate production structures within our network and Compliance education to develop multiple sources of important parts. TEL conducts online education and face-to-face training on topics including corporate ethics and the basics of compliance, export compliance, insider Mental health, long work hours, and harassment trading prevention, the Act for Subcontracting, and the prevention of TEL carries out mental health-related measures based on employee stress checks and multiple seminars aimed at helping harassment. Depending on the topic, this education is implemented for specific managers look after their employees. In addition, we have introduced a mechanism to monitor excessive work hours that lead to levels or across the board. We also implement ongoing testing to check the health risks. TEL also holds harassment prevention seminars led by lawyers. degree of understanding among employees. From fiscal year 2020, we will Percentage of employees who have received web-based training 99.2% deploy a more comprehensive, systematic education program, advancing Management of confidential information multilingual support in an effort to foster compliance awareness and reinforce The Human Resources Department and the Intellectual Property Department cooperate to strengthen measures to behavior-oriented awareness-building activities among all Group employees. prevent leaks of confidential information, particularly targeting employees who leave the company to ensure the proper return and destruction of confidential information. Internal reporting system As a means for employees to provide information outside the chain of command about behavior that may be in violation of laws or corporate ethics, we have established a hotline (organized around the tenets of confidentiality, anonymity, and prohibition of retribution) to receive internal reports. In addition, we established an external contact point for employees and another contact point specifically for suppliers and third parties. Each overseas location has its own internal reporting hotline, and we are building a unified internal reporting system for all overseas bases. As a result of these initiatives, in fiscal year 2019, there were no reports or cases of noncompliance with laws, regulations, or the Code of Ethics that could have had a material impact on the TEL Group’s business or local communities. 43 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 44 Management foundation Respect for human rights Supply chain management TEL’s stance on human rights Supply chain principles and system Conscious of its corporate social responsibility, Tokyo Electron (TEL) recognizes that it is important to conduct itself with a strong sense of integrity. Based on this recognition, TEL has firmly upheld human rights since its founding as reflected Procurement principles and system in the spirit of its Corporate Philosophy and Management Policies. For TEL, respecting human rights means a significant The high-value manufacturing that Tokyo Electron (TEL) strives for is based on the functions of all materials and undertaking, not only to fulfill its responsibility for eliminating adverse impacts on people caused through business components that make up the products and the pursuit of high quality. TEL values communications with suppliers and activities, but to respect those people who support the company’s business activities, and contribute to the realization of seek to grow manufacturing on a global scale with its suppliers based on ongoing trusting relationships. a sustainable dream-inspiring society. TEL incorporates the concept of respect into every aspect of its business activities, TEL engages in procurement activities in line with a procurement policy which the company formulated based on the and strives to nurture a dynamic corporate culture where each person can realize his or her full potential. laws, regulations, and social norms of each country as well as the RBA code of conduct, and which it has disseminated internally and to its suppliers. Under the leadership of the TEL Representative Director, President & CEO as the top of Commitment the procurement system, issues identified during procurement activities are shared with the manufacturing company In fiscal year 2018, TEL published its Human Rights Policy, summarizing the company’s approach to human rights in * presidents’ council and the purchasing department manager council for consideration of specific improvements. Responsible Business business. TEL has specified the human rights it believes are particularly important in business activities as Freedom; Alliance (RBA): The RBA establishes a set Equality & Non-Discrimination; Freely Chosen Employment; Product Safety & Workplace Health and Safety; Freedom of standards for supply of Association; and Appropriate Working Hours & Breaks/Holidays/Vacations. In preparing the Human Rights Policy, the chains in the electronics industry for a safe labor Procurement initiatives company referred to the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in addition to the International environment, to ensure that workers are treated Bill of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work which are referred to therein. with respect and dignity, CSR procurement Additionally, in order to understand the demands of the times and human rights issues in the industry, the company also and that companies take responsibility for With an aim of keeping track of its suppliers’ engagement in CSR activities, TEL has conducted a CSR Survey since fiscal year 2014. 1 Suppliers accounting for refers to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA*) Code of Conduct. environmental impact The survey is in accordance with the RBA code of conduct. TEL analyzes the responses and provides feedback to suppliers in more than 80% of TEL’s in the manufacturing procurement spend process. an effort to build on improvements. In fiscal year 2019, the company made extensive revisions to the survey content based on Awareness and education auditing standards stipulated by the RBA and implemented the survey targeting materials suppliers,1 from which the company 2 500 employees or more TEL is implementing on-site efforts to communicate principles relating to procures parts and raw materials for products. human rights not only within the company, but also with its suppliers. In fiscal Participation in According to the survey results, no suppliers were engaged in any of the practices given particular emphasis in the RBA code year 2019, TEL also implemented a human rights e-learning program targeting human rights training of conduct, namely child labor, forced labor, bonded labor, inhumane treatment, false reports, falsification of records, or bribery. all TEL executives and employees. Impact assessment and remediation (Human rights due diligence) 100% Neither were any suppliers of a sufficient size2 to be considered high risk in terms of compliance. Furthermore, from fiscal year 2019, the company has begun surveying staffing and logistics suppliers, focusing on major logistics/customs clearance operators. TEL is currently identifying and evaluating risks and impacts relating to human rights and, based on the results, Supply chain CSR process is promoting corrective action aimed at eliminating those risks. Within the company, it utilizes self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) based on the RBA Code of Conduct and, for suppliers conducts a CSR survey in order to evaluate STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 human rights risks throughout the value chain. It analyzes and evaluates the results of these surveys conducted once per year, and implements corrective action as required. By continuing the impact assessment and remediation process in the future, the company will eliminate mediumto long-term human rights risks, leading to the creation of opportunities. Appeal for CSR activities Supply chain Provision of feedback to suppliers CSR assessment based on the results, and request for improvements Grievance mechanism TEL has constructed a framework for impact assessment and remediation, and is striving to establish an effective business-level grievance mechanism. To date, the company has established hotlines in Japan and overseas for employees and suppliers, and it continues to develop initiatives for grievance mechanism in-house and in the supply chain. Responsible procurement of minerals (conflict minerals) TEL regards taking action against conflict minerals (3TG)3 obtained through illegal exploitation, including sources 3 3TG: Tantalum, tin, with human rights violations or poor working conditions, an important part of corporate social responsibility. The tungsten, and gold company’s resolute goal is to eliminate the use of raw materials made from these conflict minerals as well as any parts or components containing them. 4 Responsible Minerals In fiscal year 2019, TEL conducted its fifth annual survey on countries of origin and smelters of potential conflict Initiative (RMI): An Awareness and education minerals, using the reporting template (CMRT)4 developed by the RMI.5 As a result, TEL identified 253 RMAP6 conformant organization that inspects 3TG smelters to smelters, providing the company confidence that 3TG sourced from these smelters were conflict-free. None of the certify they do not have materials procured were found to contain conflict-affected 3TG. conflict minerals Commitment Promote respect for 5 Impact assessment and remediation human rights initiatives Procurement BCP CMRT: Conflict Minerals As part of its Business continuity plans (BCP), TEL collaborates with suppliers for disaster preparation. The company Reporting Template maintains a database of suppliers’ production sites so that if a crisis arises, it can promptly identify impacted suppliers 6 and quickly collaborate in recovery efforts. During fiscal year 2019, about 18,000 supplier sites were registered, and Responsible Minerals Assurance Process (RMAP): Grievance mechanism post‑disaster impact surveys were conducted seven times. A program promoted and In addition, for key suppliers accounting for more than 80% of the TEL’s procurement spend, it conducts a BCP survey, led by the RMI for auditing analyzes their responses, and gives the results to suppliers as feedback to promote further improvement. In the fiscal year smelters/refiners that do not use conflict minerals 2019 survey, improvements in overall rating level were observed at 19% of suppliers and improvements in the overall raw score were seen at 42%. 45 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 46 Management foundation Environmental management Environmental management system Initiatives to reduce water consumption To continuously improve its environmental activities, TEL has operated an environmental management system based With the growing importance of water resource preservation in global environmental initiatives, TEL Group has on ISO 14001 since 1997, primarily at its manufacturing subsidiaries. In March 2017, TEL acquired multi-site ISO 14001 established a goal of keeping water consumption at the same level or below that of the baseline year (fiscal year 2012 certification for its factories and offices in Japan that had previously acquired certification separately. Coinciding for factories and offices in Japan and a fiscal year of their choosing for each overseas operation). TEL’s ongoing efforts with the multi-site certification, the company has developed a standardized Group format for environmental impact to achieve these goals include reusing pure water from its manufacturing operations, installing water-saving devices, assessments, the identification of useful environmental aspects, environmental management programs, and internal watering lawns with rainwater, and implementing the intermittent operation of cafeteria faucets. audit checklists. During fiscal year 2019, TEL established approximately 100 environmental goals for different levels across During fiscal year 2019, an increase in its volume of production and an increase in water consumption associated with the entire company and carried out these improvement activities. Progress of activities and compliance with laws and product development and evaluation resulted in water consumption of 1,240,000 m3, up 8% year-over-year. Moreover, regulations are confirmed through internal audits and third-party audits. The issues identified through these activities TEL achieves 12 of the 14 goals at its sites worldwide. It also discharged an estimated 905,000 m3 of wastewater. are reviewed by the EHS Council, reported to the Manufacturing Company Presidents’ Council, and used in promoting ■Example initiative environmental activities across the entire TEL Group. Under such a management system, fiscal year 2019 was again free In construction of the new development building completed at Tokyo Electron Miyagi in October 2018 (Development from environmental incidents, accidents, violations, and associated legal proceedings. Building No. 2), facilities were installed to reuse water which is conventionally disposed of as sewage after processing to remove harmful substances. These water reuse facilities are also able to reuse wastewater from the existing development ISO 9001 certified factories and offices building. As a result, they expect to reuse approximately 15,000 m3 of water annually. Company name Factory/Office name Certification date Tokyo Electron EHS Promotion Center (Fuchu Technology Center) Tokyo Electron Technology Solutions Yamanashi Office (Fujii/Hosaka) Tohoku Office Initiatives to reduce waste May 1998 Tokyo Electron Kyushu Koshi/Ozu Office In an effort to curb the amount of waste generated and to recycle it wherever 1 Electronic manifest Tokyo Electron Miyagi Taiwa Office possible, TEL Group promotes initiatives for reducing waste. In addition system: A system for electronically tracking Tokyo Electron (Kunshan) — March 2013 to participating in the electronic manifest system1 to ensure proper waste the flow of industrial TEL FSI — March 2013 management, TEL is also engaged in maintaining an appropriate amount waste instead of using paper-based manifests Tokyo Electron Korea Balan Factory July 2014 of parts inventory and in reusing cushioning material. The company is also (i.e. paper forms for TEL Epion — May 2018 Recycling rate tracking industrial achieving lower waste processing costs, by promoting waste sorting activities 99.2% waste). The system and by modifying and increasing the capacity of space used for storing uses a communications network of data waste so as to reduce the frequency that it is collected. In fiscal year 2019, processing centers, businesses that Initiatives to prevent global warming and save energy the company conducted checks of waste disposal operators in Japan using a generate waste, and Each TEL plant and office has an established goal of reducing energy consumption by at least 1% year-over-year. * unified on-site checklist and shared the results. In fiscal year 2019, TEL generated 116 tons of incinerated and landfill waste waste collection/ disposal companies. In calculating CO2 Initiatives to achieve this goal include energy-saving cleanroom operation, appropriate temperature settings for office emissions, the emission in Japan. As a result of its waste-reduction initiatives, the recycling rate2 at sites in Japan in fiscal year 2019 was 99.2%, factor for TEL’s 2 cooling and heating, the introduction of highly energy-efficient equipment, and the adoption of renewable energies. electricity consumption achieving its goal of maintaining a recycling rate of 97% or higher for the 13th consecutive year since fiscal year 2007. The Recycling rate: (Recycled amount/ As a result of these initiatives, in fiscal year 2018, TEL reduced energy consumption per unit sales at its plants and offices by 5% in Japan in fiscal year company has also maintained a high level of recycling at its overseas factories and offices of 90.0%. Amount of waste 2019 was substituted year-over-year. However, an increase in its volume of production and an increase in energy consumption associated with product by adjusted emission ■Example initiative 1 generated) x 100 factors for the electrical development and evaluation resulted in power consumption of 306 GWh in fiscal year 2018, up 8% year-over-year; and energypower providers Tokyo Electron Taiwan revised its method of disposing sludge, which had been processed as landfill, to recycle it as derived CO2 emissions* of 159 kilotons, up 5% year-over-year. Based on the correlation between business operations and energy concerned. The emission factor for TEL’s overseas material for cement, thereby increasing the base’s recycling rate to 99%. Furthermore, the revision allowed them to use, TEL changed to an appropriate metric at plants and offices in Japan, and standardized it across the company. Specifically, electricity consumption significantly reduce the processing cost. was substituted by the company adopted a metric calculated using a complex weighting of data from each area on the number of evaluation units estimated factors ■Example initiative 2 calculated by the used in development, the number of units produced, total floor area and staff-hours. Of all 11 of its plants and offices, both those Federation of Electric As one aspect of reducing waste, the company is also proactively working to reduce the amount of copier paper used. overseas plus those in Japan that had set goals based on this method, goals were achieved at five of them. Power Companies Some factories and offices are switching from using paper to tablets for viewing and checking procedures and plans of Japan-based on ■Example initiative 1 values published by the used at manufacturing sites. As a result of this initiative, the company not only reduced the amount of paper used, it also International Energy When Tokyo Electron Kyushu produces pure water, it was heating the water first, using a gas boiler, because the water Agency (IEA) expects to reduce the environmental burden and cost of toner, shredder, and paper disposal. temperature was too low. Then, after the pure water had been used, it was disposed of while the temperature was still high. Using heat exchange between the two types of water enabled the elimination of the addition of heat before Management of chemical substances preparation of pure water, whereby it was possible to reduce the volume of boiler gas use by 70% or more. TEL uses chemical substances in its product development and manufacturing phases. The use and release of chemical substances 3 Pollutant Release ■Example initiative 2 subject to the Japanese PRTR3 law are constantly monitored and managed. Whenever TEL introduces a new chemical substance and Transfer Register (PRTR): A framework for Tokyo Electron Miyagi is reusing waste oil from the staff cafeteria to produce biofuel, equivalent to approximately 500 or change the way an existing substance is used, the company checks for environmental, health, and safety risks beforehand. tracking, tabulating, and kg/month in terms of CO2. In the future, they plan to use the biofuel produced in company cars. It disposes of substances properly after use, either through expert waste disposal contractors or by using in-house processing disclosing quantitative data on chemical equipment. In response to the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, TEL conducts simple, regular substances that may be hazardous to Renewable energy initiatives inspections based on the law in an effort to monitor the amount of fluorocarbons used and recovered. During fiscal year 2019, no human health and the TEL promotes the use of renewable energies. At the Tokyo Electron Miyagi (Taiwa) and Tokyo Electron Technology TEL factories or offices exceeded the level of fluorocarbon leakage that requires reporting. ecosystem, including the amounts used and Solutions (Yamanashi), renewable energy generated from solar panels is used to power the factories, and monitors discharged into the environment and the displaying their energy profile have been set up at the entrances to the factories. At its Tokyo Electron Kyushu (Koshi), amounts transferred generated energy is sold, helping to prevent global warming. In fiscal year 2019, TEL generated a total of 4,392 MWh (as part of waste) off the original business’s of renewable energy in Japan. In addition, Tokyo Electron U.S. Holdings has continued to purchase green power, 3,834 premises MWh in fiscal year 2019. 47 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 48 Social contribution activities Approach to social contribution Initiatives around the world The social contribution activities of Tokyo Electron (TEL) aim to contribute to the development of local communities and the resolution of social issues through various initiatives while deepening relationships of trust with all stakeholders. With Innovation and Technology, Education, Japan Science Intercollegiate America SEMI High Tech U Environment, and Community Involvement as its four focus areas, TEL conducts activities according to the United Nations SDGs. Science Intercollegiate is an event As an official Certified Partner of SEMI for university and technical college High Tech U, Tokyo Electron America 4 focus areas and relevant SDGs students to present findings of their own research. TEL has been a featured (TEA) participates by dispatching instructors to this three-day program sponsor since the first competition. In that teaches STEM* skills to high school providing an opportunity to present their research, the event aims to students who seek to pursue high-tech motivate students to undertake careers. TEA believes that linking STEM research and to foster richly creative to real-world applications at SEMI High scientists and engineers. The 8th Tech U makes learning more enjoyable for students and contributes to their growth. Science Intercollegiate was held at Rikkyo University on March 2–3, 2019, bringing * STEM: General name for the educational category of Science, Technology, Engineering, and the total number of students presenting their research to more than 1,800 since the Mathematics event’s inception. Corporate partnership activities with educational Europe China TEL Fudan Scholarship institutions Innovation and Community Education Environment Technology involvement Tokyo Electron Europe has participated Tokyo Electron established the TEL in corporate partnership activities Fudan Scholarship Program at the with educational institutions for six School of Microelectronics at Fudan consecutive years since 2015. Through University in order to nurture human to April 2019, TEL has provided resources and to raise technical opportunities for 360 teenagers to standards within China. In 2018, the first participate in the program, learning award ceremony was held at the school. about science and the semiconductor Six students were presented with industry while having fun. It was a scholarships and honorary certificates, comprehensive program, where TEL’s periodic table was distributed to participants, and shared their research and accomplishments. Tokyo Electron Shanghai has further and finally, a graduation ceremony was held. expanded research projects with Fudan University, and building on their friendly relations, is working to nurture even more talented graduates. Japan Afforestation activities for groundwater recharge Taiwan Beach cleanup for preserving a beautiful coastline Approximately 80% of Kumamoto In June 2017, Tokyo Electron Taiwan TEL FOR GOOD is the new brand name that represents TEL’s social contribution activities. Prefecture’s water supply resources are held a charity event to coincide with its From fiscal year 2019, we are using it as a collective term for social contribution events and underground. For Kumamoto City in beach cleanup in Hsinchu City, pledging particular, because 100% of the waterworks to make a donation proportionate to various programs, donations and volunteer activities sponsored by our company around are supplied by groundwater, preservation the number of participants and the the world. of groundwater is an important activity volume of waste collected. On the day for securing future water resources. Since of the event, many ordinary residents 2006, Tokyo Electron Kyushu has been who happened to be at the beach joined working on broadleaf afforestation suited with the more than 150 employees to groundwater recharge in Nishihara and volunteers, collecting over 300 kg of waste. This resulted in a donation of TWD Village, in the outer rim of southern Mount Aso. Up to March 2019, 2,800 employees and 450,000, which was given to the National Nantou Special School. family members have planted a total of 4.2 ha with 13,800 trees. Special Topics Support for areas affected by torrential rain in western Japan in July 2018 and the Hokkaido Eastern Iburi Earthquake Food Bank Yamanashi, an authorized non-profit Japan Earthquake memorial event Japan organization The number of victims resulting from torrential rain that occurred in western Japan in July 2018 was the largest Since 2013, Miyagi Prefecture and Since 2015, as part of its “Community recorded of all torrential rain disasters for the Heisei era Kahoku Shimpo Publishing Co. have held Involvement” activities, Tokyo Electron (1989-2019). the 3.11 Earthquake Memorial Event to Technology Solutions Yamanashi encourage the prefecture’s citizens to Regional Office has been participating in In addition, the Hokkaido Eastern Iburi Earthquake move on with positivity without letting the activities of Food Bank Yamanashi, that occurred in September of the same year, caused a the memory of the 2011 Great East an authorized non-profit organization large amount of damage, and much time is being spent Japan Earthquake fade. Endorsing the that delivers food items to families with in recovery efforts. objective of the event, Tokyo Electron children in need of assistance. During Miyagi has been sponsoring it since 2016. summer and winter school holidays, Tokyo Electron (TEL) sincerely hopes that the areas The event featured a cheering performance by the Miyagi Recovery Cheering Squad in the office donates food items from affected can realize a quick recovery, and made relief collaboration with local children, and a concert by a local singer. the employees, with a matching gift of an equivalent amount of money from the donations to this end. company. This endeavor is ongoing. 49 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 50 Performance summary: Social Composition of employees Employee retention (Japan) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of employees 10,531 10,306 10,920 11,696 12,469 Retention after three years of 94.2 93.6 92.9 93.4 93.0 joining TEL* Japan 6,853 6,737 6,967 7,268 7,526 Men 95.0 94.1 94.1 94.3 93.5 Regular employees Rest of Asia 1,386 1,543 1,850 2,218 2,832 (Region/Group) Women 90.3 90.2 85.2 87.1 88.0 Employee retention Europe and Middle East 670 440 448 492 513 Average service years 16 yrs. 4 mos. 17 yrs. 0 mos. 17 yrs. 1 mos. 17 yrs. 1 mos. 17 yrs. 2 mos. North America 1,622 1,586 1,655 1,718 1,598 Men 16 yrs. 6 mos. 17 yrs. 2 mos. 17 yrs. 4 mos. 17 yrs. 4 mos. 17 yrs. 5 mos. Women 15 yrs. 3 mos. 16 yrs. 0 mos. 15 yrs. 5 mos. 15 yrs. 7 mos. 15 yrs. 8 mos. FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Employee turnover 198 131 102 103 108 Number of employees 7,166 7,060 7,288 7,516 7,797 Men 164 94 82 82 88 Turnover Regular employees 6,853 6,737 6,967 7,268 7,526 Women 34 37 20 21 20 Men 5,982 5,874 6,079 6,292 6,479 Turnover percentage 2.7 1.8 1.4 1.4 1.4 Employees * Average in recent five years Women 871 863 888 976 1,047 (Employment type/Japan) Non-regular employees 313 323 321 248 271 Work-life balance (Japan) Men 183 201 209 181 220 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Women 130 122 112 67 51 Annual paid leave Take-up rate 61.8 62.6 64.1 64.3 67.2 Number of those who took leave 1,285 1,045 586 639 605 Recruitment/employment (Japan) Refreshment leave Men 1,091 926 499 556 507 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Women 194 119 87 83 98 Number hired 73 25 72 167 199 Paternity leave Number of those who took leave 192 172 179 180 155 Under 30 yrs old 73 24 72 163 198 Number of those who took leave 52 42 44 41 56 Men 65 20 70 131 166 Men 3 2 2 4 8 Women 8 4 2 32 32 Women (percentage who 49 40 42 37 48 took leave) (94.5) (93.3) (95.7) (93.2) (100.0) 30–49 yrs old 0 1 0 4 1 Number of those who returned 46 46 44 44 43 New graduates hired Men 0 1 0 4 1 Childcare leave to work after leave Men 2 1 2 6 6 Women 0 0 0 0 0 Women 44 45 42 38 37 Over 50 yrs old 0 0 0 0 0 Percentage reinstated 88.5 85.2 93.6 93.6 93.5 Men 0 0 0 0 0 Retention rate 94.3 91.3 95.7 90.0 88.9 Women 0 0 0 0 0 Number of those who used 183 188 170 176 153 Percentage of women 11.0 16.0 2.8 19.2 16.1 Shorter working hour system Men 11 13 23 24 8 Number hired 62 66 279 262 240 Women 172 175 147 152 145 Under 30 yrs old 11 17 102 102 86 Number of those who used 460 453 464 455 517 Men 3 13 85 85 68 Leave to care for a sick/ Men 246 245 263 281 334 Women 8 4 17 17 18 injured child Women 214 208 201 174 183 30–49 yrs old 45 47 170 156 145 Number of those who took leave 96 103 106 120 129 Career-track recruits Men 29 31 155 135 119 Childcare support leave Men 24 15 16 19 26 Women 16 16 15 21 26 Women 72 88 90 101 103 Over 50 yrs old 6 2 7 4 9 Number of those who took leave 2 0 2 3 5 Men 4 2 6 3 5 Extended nursing care leave Men 0 0 1 2 2 Women 2 0 1 1 4 Women 2 0 1 1 3 Percentage of women 41.9 30.3 11.8 14.9 20.0 Number of those who took leave 20 31 50 47 63 Percentage hired (TEL) 2.00 1.96 2.13 2.22 2.18 Employees with disabilities Short nursing care leave Men 11 10 31 25 38 Percentage hired (Group) 1.94 1.98 1.98 1.91 2.04 Women 9 21 19 22 25 Number of people 32 39 42 20* 22* Female managers (Group) Number of those who used 1 0 0 0 2 Percentage 1.3 1.5 1.6 1.8* 2* Shorter working hour system Men 1 0 0 0 0 Number of users 74 101 125 156 201 for nursing care Women 0 0 0 0 2 Reemployment system Men 74 98 123 155 196 Women 0 3 2 1 5 Number of users 69 49 34 31 30 Safety Second career support system Men 59 43 30 30 28 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Women 10 6 4 1 2 Percentage of employees who received training on basic safety 100 100 100 100 100 Percentage of regular employees who received regular Percentage of employees who received training on advanced safety 100 100 100 100 100 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 performance and career evaluations Lost time incident rate (LTIR) 0.53 0.42 0.46 0.77 0.40 * Grade resetting through global human resources system Number of workplace injuries per 200,000 work hours (TCIR) 0.24 0.21 0.28 0.38 0.20 51 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 52 Performance summary: Social Performance summary: Environment The scope for calculating environmental data is the Tokyo Electron Group (34 consolidated subsidiaries). Products/Innovation Within Japan: Tokyo Electron Ltd. and six consolidated subsidiaries (including Tokyo Electron Technology Solutions Ltd., Tokyo Electron Kyushu Ltd., Tokyo FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Electron Miyagi Ltd., and Tokyo Electron FE Ltd.) Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Overseas: 27 consolidated subsidiaries (including Tokyo Electron America, Inc., Tokyo Electron Europe Ltd., Tokyo Electron Korea Ltd., Tokyo Electron Taiwan Ltd., regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and 0 0 0 0 0 Tokyo Electron (Shanghai) Ltd., and Tokyo Electron Singapore Pte. Ltd.) safety impacts of products and services Number of active issued patents 16,421 16,300 16,023 16,767 17,473 Japan 5,288 5,172 4,984 5,091 5,304 Greenhouse gas consumption/emissions denotes data with third-party assurance. North America 4,326 4,361 4,224 4,321 4,415 Scope FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Active issued patents (country) Europe 354 241 199 185 179 Emissions metric (sales) 2.61 2.22 1.77 1.34 1.24 Korea 2,847 2,784 2,672 2,864 3,076 (t-CO2/billion yen) Taiwan 1,983 2,131 2,387 2,675 2,817 Emissions (kt-CO2) 160 148 141 152 159 CO2 from energy consumption China 1,623 1,611 1,557 1,631 1,682 Japan 126 115 110 119 127 Overseas 35 33 31 33 32 CY2013* CY2014* CY2015* CY2016* CY2017* Scope 11 emissions (kt-CO2) 10 8 8 9 9 Global patent application rate 69.5 68.0 70.0 76.1 81.2 Japan, energy-derived 7 6 6 7 7 Japan 74.0 78.0 66.5 71.5 82.9 Patent application success rate Overseas, energy-derived 3 2 2 2 2 North America 62.8 71.2 72.3 78.0 85.1 CO2 by scope Scope 22 emissions (kt-CO2) 151 140 133 143 150 * Calendar year when patents were filed/granted Customers Japan 119 109 104 112 120 Overseas 31 30 29 31 30 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Percentage of customers who said they were satisfied in the Scope 33 emissions (kt-CO2) 3,566 3,491 4,028 5,855 6,467 80.5 81.1 82.6 81.2 85.3 customer satisfaction survey Emissions (kt-CO2e) (Japan) 22 33 28 26 47 HFCs 2 1 3 3 3 Governance Non-energy-derived PFCs 6 8 8 11 18 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 greenhouse gas SF6 14 17 9 4 11 Total number of critical incidents notified to Board of Directors — — 1 0 0 Other 0.01 6 8 8 15 Total number of incidents subject to legal action on the basis of anti-competitive conduct, anti-trust activity, Scope 14 emissions (kt-CO2e) 10 12 9 8 15 0 0 0 0 0 or monopolistic practices where the governance body’s involvement was revealed 1 Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions from use of fuel and gas owned or controlled by TEL. Calculation method: Emissions = Σ (fuel consumed ×CO2 emission factor) Number of executive officers who received training on anti— — 12 13 0 Emission factor based on Japan’s Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures corruption* 2 Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from use of electricity purchased by TEL. Total number (percentage) of directors who provided Calculation method: Emissions = Σ (purchased electricity × CO2 emission factor) 11 12 12 Adjusted emission factors for the electrical power providers concerned based on Japan’s Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures were used as the emission factor for Japan instructions on the body’s policies and procedures in relation — — (100) (100) (100) Estimated factors calculated by The Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan based on values published by the International Energy Agency (IEA) were used as the emission factor for overseas electricity to anti-corruption* consumption Total number (percentage) of directors who received training 9 9 0 3 Scope 3: Emissions from corporate value chains (excluding scope 1 and 2 emissions), such as product transportation, employee business travel, and major outsourced production processes. — — on anti-corruption* (81.8) (75.0) (0.0) The entire scope is divided into 15 categories, of which calculations were made for categories 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, and 12. Calculations for categories 8, 10, 13, 14, and 15 were not made as they are either not included in TEL’s activities, or have already been included in other categories. Payment to industry groups, etc. (thousand yen) — — — 16,616 17,374 4 Scope 1: Non-energy-derived CO2 and greenhouse gases other than CO2. Payment to politically affiliated organizations (yen) — — — 0 0 Calculation method: Emissions = Σ (consumption ×emission per unit consumption – amount recovered/properly treated) Average tenure of directors — — — 8.04 7,36 Average rate of attendance for board meetings — — — 99.46 98,24 Resource consumption denotes data with third-party assurance. * Scope: Japan Scope FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Compliance Consumption (thousand m3) 1,546 1,076 1,055 1,143 1,240 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Japan* 1,043 896 861 966 1,054 Percentage of employees who have received web-based 99.7 98.4 98.0 99.4 99.2 Groundwater 403 314 251 359 363 training on business ethics and compliance* Water Percentage of employees who have consented to the Tap water 416 368 385 387 422 100 99.9 99.9 99.9 100.0 information security agreement Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance Industrial water 224 214 225 220 269 0 0 0 0 0 with laws and regulations in the social and economic area Overseas 503 180 194 177 186 * Scope: Japan Copier paper Use (t) (Japan) 162 128 157 194 165 Procurement * With regard to water consumption in Japan, past figures have been revised based on the actual situation. FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Percentage of new important suppliers screened using social criteria — 100 100 100 100 Rate of improvement after supply chain CSR assessment Unable to compare with previous CO2 emissions from energy consumption Water consumption 25.3 33.8 16.9 20.7 fiscal year due to comprehensive (kt-CO2) (thousand m3) (including green procurement survey from fiscal year 2016) revisions, including the survey Rate of improvement after supply chain BCP assessment 41.2 26.5 32.3 21.2 19.4 126 127 115 119 Number of identified RMAP conformant smelters 117 204 237 249 253 110 1,043 1,054 966 896 861 403 359 363 314 251 Social contribution 503 387 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 35 416 368 385 422 33 31 33 32 184 277 242 238 281 180 194 177 186 Spending on social contribution (million yen) 224 214 225 220 269 Charity donations (providing donations/relief 2 14 17 13 11 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) supplies to charity organizations) Cash donations Community investment (charitable expenses 47 52 43 49 55 Japan Overseas Industrial water (Japan) Tap water (Japan) Groundwater (Japan) breakdown for long-term cause for community) Commercial initiatives (charitable expenses Overseas use 51 34 40 38 34 with anticipated effects on business growth) 53 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 54 Performance summary: Environment Energy consumption/generation Amount of waste generated Scope FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Scope FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Consumption metric Amount generated (t) 10,064 8,384 12,318 14,435 14,960 (energy consumption/sales) 1.2 1.02 0.84 0.66 0.63 (kL/billion yen) Waste Japan 8,858 7,721 11,393 13,694 14,208 Consumption (crude oil Overseas 1,206 663 925 741 752 Energy 73,421 67,499 67,457 75,033 80,918 equivalent) (kL) Specially controlled industrial Amount generated (t) Japan 54,973 52,002 52,676 59,613 65,757 2,842 2,125 3,683 4,904 6,619 waste (Japan) Overseas 18,448 15,497 14,781 15,420 15,161 Recycled amount (t) 9,828 8,182 12,128 14,211 14,770 Consumption (MWh) 274,368 254,201 253,300 282,274 305,795 Recycling Japan 8,764 7,599 11,281 13,561 14,092 Electricity Japan 208,753 198,404 200,547 226,747 250,911 Overseas 1,064 583 847 650 678 Overseas 65,615 55,797 52,753 55,527 54,884 Amount of waste (t) 236 202 190 224 190 Consumption (crude oil Incinerated and landfill waste Japan 94 122 112 133 116 3,501 2,748 2,877 3,083 2,991 equivalent) (kL) Gas Overseas 142 80 78 91 74 Japan 1,929 1,602 1,666 1,947 1,948 Water discharge volume Overseas 1,572 1,146 1,211 1,136 1,043 — 904 874 905 1,006 (thousand m3) Consumption (crude oil Water discharges Japan — 750 709 759 850 871 706 797 875 915 equivalent) (kL) Fuel Overseas — 154 165 146 156 Japan 870 706 796 874 915 Overseas 1 0 1 1 0 Chemical substances consumption/emissions (Japan) Purchase (MWh) 2,405 3,833 3,334 3,458 3,834 Scope FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Green power Japan 0 0 0 0 0 Volume handled (t) 48 35 64 100 101 Overseas 2,405 3,833 3,334 3,458 3,834 Ferric chloride 38 21 33 82 84 Power generation (MWh) 4,559 4,486 4,436 4,414 4,392 Hydrogen fluoride and 7 9 25 12 11 PV power generation system Japan 4,536 4,486 4,436 4,414 4,392 its water-soluble salts PRTR Class I designated Methylnaphthalene 2 4 5 5 5 Overseas 23 0 0 0 0 chemical substances Other 1 1 1 1 1 Power sales (MWh)* 1,337 1,331 1,346 1,386 1,382 Amount transported (waste Power sales Japan 1,337 1,331 1,346 1,386 1,382 46 31 59 95 96 amount) (t) Overseas 0 0 0 0 0 Consumption (t) 2 4 5 5 5 * Heating, cooling and steam not sold NOx Emissions (t) 12 7.5 7.9 11.5 9.6 SOx Emissions (t) 2.7 2.2 2.5 2.7 2.8 Environmental impact of logistics Scope FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Other Emissions (kt-CO2) 74 65 97 122 146 Scope FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Number of certified offices 8 7 8 9 9 CO2 Japan 5 6 7 12 9 ISO 14001 Japan 4 4 5 5 5 Overseas 68 59 90 110 137 Proportion of marine transport Overseas 4 3 3 4 4 31.0 36.1 31.9 36.4 35.9 (international) Number of ecosystem tours* 13 15 18 22 17 Biodiversity Number of ecosystem tour 69 281 396 718 595 participants* Number of breaches of environmental laws and 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental laws and regulations regulations Amount of fines on legal 0 0 0 0 0 breaches Total product shipment (t)* 13,596 17,342 20,445 34,110 32,715 * Scope: Japan Electricity consumption CO2 emissions from logistics and the proportion of marine transport (Million kWh) (kt-CO2) 35.9 Recycling rate/generation of incinerated and landfill waste in Japan Volume of PRTR Class I designated chemical substances handled in Japan (t) 250.9 36.1 36.4 146 9 98.9 98.4 99.0 99.0 99.2 226.7 31.0 31.9 100 1 101 1 208.8 198.4 200.5 122 12 5 5 97 7 Target: Maintain recycling rate of 97% or more 12 11 74 64 1 5 65 137 6 110 48 1 5 65.6 90 2 25 82 84 55.8 52.8 55.5 54.9 68 133 35 1 59 122 112 116 7 94 4 38 9 33 21 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Logistics in Japan Overseas logistics Proportion of marine transport Japan Overseas in international logistics (%) Incinerated and landfill waste (t) Ferric chloride Hydrogen fluoride and its water-soluble salts Recycling rate (%): (Recycled amount / Amount of waste generated) × 100 Methylnaphthalene Other 55 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 56 Independent practitioner's assurance report Corporate profile Corporate profile Company name: Tokyo Electron Limited Main business: Semiconductor production equipment business, flat panel display (FPD) production equipment business Address: Akasaka Biz Tower 3-1 Akasaka 5-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo Capital: 54,961 million yen 107-6325, Japan Number of employees: 13,021 (consolidated) Established: November 11, 1963 1,559 (non-consolidated) Representative: Toshiki Kawai Number of locations: Japan: 7 companies at 27 locations Representative Director, Outside Japan: 27 companies at 50 locations in President & CEO 16 countries and regions Worldwide total: 34 companies at 77 locations in 17 countries and regions (as of April 1, 2019) Financial data Earnings Release URL http://www.tel.com/ir/library/report/ Securities Report URL https://www.tel.co.jp/ir/library/fs/ Tokyo Electron’s logo Our logo was created as a symbol for Tokyo Electron’s next stage of growth, based on our corporate philosophy and vision. This simple design represents our reliability and the engaging presence we bring to a competitive industry. The green square at the center of the logo signifies the core of innovation supporting development in industry; the translucent blue expresses Tokyo Electron’s leading-edge advanced technology. We contribute to the development of a dream-inspiring society through our leading-edge advanced technology and reliable service and support. 57 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 TOKYO ELECTRON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 58
