2018-19 Sustainability Action Report UNGC Communication of Progress At cKinetics, we incorporate sustainability into the operations and mainstreaming sustainability, not only outward in business but also strategies for our clients. cKinetics’ footprint in our chosen domain is inward in our processes and operations. In a first, this report maps routed and amplified through the impact of our clients, engaged a our contribution to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) variety of economic growth sectors, and knowledge partners. which reiterates the cross-sectionality of our projects. It gives us great pleasure to present our 7th annual Sustainability At cKinetics, as we march on towards our first decade in the Action Report. In our journey that began 9 years ago, we have been sustainability space, we are excited about exploring new Directors’ Note creating and supporting a path towards low-carbon economies at a local, regional, and global scale. In FY 2018-19, we progressed further towards this agenda with the impact we enabled in areas of opportunities in this domain and ready to bring our vision of a sustainable world for all to fruition. sustainability. Resources: During the year, we engineered savings of 2.66 billion litres of water and 8.73 GWh of electricity for our clients. Not only did we enhance resource efficiency but also enabled annual financial savings totalling more than USD 4.77 million cumulatively for the facilities we engaged with. We also enabled 29,000+ tonnes of GHG reduction. Reach: Additionally, through our initiatives in the areas of cleantech innovation and sustainable finance, geared towards enhancing green finance and responsible investing in India, we engaged policymakers, think tanks, capital investors, innovators, financial institutions and Upendra Bhatt Pawan Mehra the wider community. Managing Director Managing Director Our own operations: FY 2018-19 was also fruitful for cKinetics in that we successfully reduced our GHG emissions footprint compared to the preceding two years. This is also testament to our vision of Image: Pulkit Khare 04 Highlights for FY 2018-19 15 Developing Tools and Frameworks 05 Who We Are and What We Do 17 Making the Business Case Contents 06 Our Raison d’etre 19 GHG Inventory FY 2018-19 08 Mainstreaming Resource Efficiency 21 Sustainable Development Goals 10 Low–Carbon Pathways 23 Principles of UN Global Compact 12 Enabling Sustainable Finance 27 Business Responsibility Report Image: Pixabay Our principle of ‘Always Be Creating Value’ forms an integral component of our work philosophy driving us to consistently create socio-economic and environmental value for all stakeholders Resource Efficiency Highlights FY 2.66 billion litres water savings Enough to meet daily minimum water USD 4.77 million annual financial savings enabled requirement of 53 million people 8.73 GWh electricity savings 2,681 tonnes of fuel Enough to meet daily electricity saved in industrial sector 2018-19 requirement of 8.6 million people 29,000+ tonnes CO2e GHG emissions mitigated 5,142 tonnes chemical savings Equivalent to taking 2.2 million in heavy industries passenger vehicles off the streets for a day 4 highlights for FY 2018-19 Our work areas, geographies and industries we serve Textile, Apparel and Forging Retail Footwear Foundry Who we are & what we do Smart Tannery Steel re-rolling Sustainable Resource Domains of Work Energy Efficiency Pulp & Paper Iron and Steel Pharmaceuticals and Ceramics chemicals Sustainable Telecom Food, Beverages, Oils and Seeds Materials Distillery Our Offerings Hubs Operational presence Operational Capital Market Intelligence 5 Advisory Advisory and Insights who we are Our raison d’etre is to mainstream a multi-pronged approach for sustainable development in line with limiting climate change-induced temperature rise to 1.5 ⁰C. INNOVATION: creating unique Six times faster scale-up of renewable energy1 solutions with sustainable impact Our raison d’etre Reducing global energy intensity by two-thirds by 20501 CAPITAL: bringing the business case to life for clients USD 10.5 trillion global investment on energy efficient pathways2 INSIGHT: fostering dialogue on sustainability Limiting GHG emissions to 420Gt CO2e in the next 10 years3 Access to clean water for two-thirds of the global population living in scarce water areas4 1 Global Energy Transformation: A Roadmap to 2050, International Renewable Energy Agency’s (IRENA) 2 Meeting climate change goals through energy efficiency (IEA) 6 3 Special Report: Global Warming of 1.5 ⁰C (IPCC, SR15) 4 Mekonnen, M. M., & Hoekstra, A. Y. (2016). Four billion people facing severe water scarcity. Science advances, 2(2) our raison d’etre Resource Efficiency & Low Carbon Pathways Image: Pranav Dadhich Resource efficiency in production and operational systems of industries is one of the core focuses of our business Mainstreaming resource efficiency 8.73 GWh In 2018-19, we continued to expand our work of mapping resource use and providing solutions to accelerate resource 8.3 GWh efficiency in major industries, including textile, footwear, and global apparel retail in India and Vietnam. Electricity savings In these industries our impact with respect to resource savings in energy (fuel), electricity, and chemicals use has enabled* 7.4 GWh been significant. Additionally, we worked with financiers and industrial ecopark developers in Vietnam to implement technical guidelines for wastewater recycling. 2016-17 2016 2017-18 2017 2018-19 2018 We also supported the SME sector in India, specifically clusters in the energy-intensive foundry, forging, ceramic, and steel re-rolling industries, in their transition to energy 12,336 tonnes efficient operations with a customised tool created to assess greenhouse gas emissions and energy efficiency of these sectors. 5,142 tonnes Chemical use 797 tonnes prevented* 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 8 *First year savings of projects implemented in given year mainstreaming resource efficiency Resource efficiency enhances sustainable economic growth, increases the competitiveness of industry, stimulates innovation and ensures secure supply of key resources Mainstreaming resource efficiency Water, in increasingly scarce supplies and a key resource in 2.66 bn litres industry is still an under-priced resource. We are committed to creating innovative solutions for water use efficiency and 2.13 bn litres wastewater recycling by leveraging efficient technologies and process changes. 1.47 bn litres In 2018, we supported industrial units in the apparel retail Water savings (mills and laundries), footwear and textiles sectors with tools for and insights into efficient water consumption achieved* strategies. We employ technical and financial feasibility modelling to identify efficient technological solutions like ultra-low Material to Liquor (MLR) processing machinery, and wastewater recycling plants. 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 Our Embodied Value of Water and Value Added Water 29,253 tCO2e frameworks form the core of our water use efficiency assessments. One of the most significant impacts of our work in resource efficiency is the amount of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) avoided in the process. In 2018-19, we successfully enabled avoidance of more than 29,000 tonnes of GHG emissions. GHG emissions 29,136 tCO2e reduction* 2017-18 2017 2018-19 2018 9 *First year savings of projects implemented in given year mainstreaming resource efficiency Renewable energy generation is essential for achieving carbon neutral growth and ensuring economies generate high socio-economic returns on investments in low-carbon pathways Our work in the renewable energy sector in 2018 focused on programmatic development and implementation support for 65 MW Low-carbon pathways several projects across sub-sectors such as solar PV rooftops, Includes 25 MW+ Solar rooftop demand aggregation across 3 solar pumps, solarisation of telecom towers as also ministates in India grids in countries such as Vietnam and Tanzania besides India. 40 MW worth of project development support for rooftop, This has enabled a three-fold impact: campus micro-grids in South-east Asia and East Africa ➢ Greater scale in distributed solar sector ➢ Accelerated private sector capital infusion in the sector ➢ Larger lending exposure in untapped MSME sector USD 40 million We are the partner-of-choice for enabling new product Enabling financing mechanism for scaling up DRE in Indian rollout and international DFI driven financing lines in these MSME sector global geographies. As a result, we have been engaged in catalysing solar PV based capacity addition for a variety of end-use applications. Innovative micro-utility and Our work in the Indian DRE sector has also expanded into the cooking segment as also a launch of a India specific solar pumping models for domestic financiers alliance. enhancing energy access Supporting discoms in crafting PPP models for resilient supply and comprehensive customer management 10 low-carbon pathways Sustainable Finance Solutions & Green Investment Image: Pixabay Sustainability-oriented financial systems and frameworks are another key aspect of our solutiondriven approach Stakeholders targeted Enabling sustainable finance There exists a need for creating an enabling environment for large-scale financing in low-carbon sectors (renewable energy, green mobility, energy efficient equipment, etc.) by catalysing private sector investment in sustainable production business models and clean production practices. In 2018-19, we supported domestic initiatives for DRE financing in India by designing financial debt products that meet the needs of project undertakers. Ongoing initiatives targeting green investment entail creation of a comprehensive taxonomy of ‘green’ finance that identifies investment areas and climate-change mitigation potential of each intervention. This is expected to Government & International lenders plug a crucial knowledge gap for private sector investors in Private sector the low-carbon domain in India. regulatory (private/multi-lateral) investors bodies An aligned area of work is the development of a framework that differentiates between climate/green finance and ESGdriven finance while simultaneously identifying pathways to attract international capital for sustainable and responsible investing. >1,500 financial sector players, government regulators and private investors engaged directly and indirectly 12 enabling sustainable finance Our research-based repository of knowledge products acts a key lever for enabling sustainable and responsible financing Enabling sustainable finance In 2018-19, we conducted a deep-dive into Sustainable and Responsible Investing (SRI) in India intended to catalyse conversation on the steps needed to coordinate investment action between financial institutions and businesses using updated National Guidelines and establish an SRI forum in India. Additionally, we developed a knowledge repository for investors and innovators in the clean technology sector in India. These detailed case evaluation of select cleantech investments are expected to reduce the learning curve for ‘Drops Before The Rain? ‘Strides To Success: A profile of Distributed renewable investors thereby enhancing innovation and capital India Sustainable and successful innovators and active energy Investment Policy deployment. The report can be accessed on our market intelligence and insights platform: Sustainability Outlook. Responsible Investing investors in the cleantech space’ Tracker for India Landscape 2017’ During the year, we also created of an online tracker tool for capturing investment trends in Indian DRE market through capital deployment and policy changes. Think-tanks and Businesses and This database is expected supplement investor information policymakers capital investors in developing sectors like cold storage, milk chillers, solar dryers, etc. Access the tracker here. Stakeholders engaged Financial Cleantech Institutions manufacturers & distributors 13 enabling sustainable finance Knowledge Tools & Sustainability Insights Image: Pixabay Our solution-based approach creates long-term value for our stakeholders tools and frameworks that can be leveraged over the long term to generate sustained impact Developing tools and frameworks We work closely with our partners and collaborators to Roadmap for long-term SBTs in apparel retail industry generate market intelligence and data-driven insights into new and emerging areas of sustainability. During the year, as part of the engagement with leading apparel retail brands, we created an indicative roadmap for setting long-term reduction targets for water use and GHG emissions in their supply chains spread across India, Vietnam, China, and Taiwan. As part of the project, we developed a tool for capturing the water use footprint of supply chain partners based on which the retail brands can develop Science Based Targets for GHG and water reduction goals In 2018, a research partnership with a global association of off-grid solar energy players on the future of off-grid solar lighting and solar-powered appliances in India was completed through market assessments frameworks that can be scaled-up. Stakeholders engaged through this project are expected to employ these findings to develop go-tomarket strategies, product design and geography targeting. Additionally, an assessment conducted in the sectors of forging, foundry, ceramic, and steel re-rolling on the emissions and energy efficiency scenario in Indian SMEs led to development of a tool for SMEs to track energy use and GHG emissions. Access the tool here. ‘Peering into the future: India ‘State of Sector: GHG and the distributed standalone Emissions in Indian SMEs’ solar products market’ 15 developing tools and frameworks Making the Business Case Image: Pixabay We believe in the “business case first” approach and it forms the core of everything we do. Our work demonstrates that investing in energy efficiency and resource savings makes business sense for clients Business-oriented approach Through our projects in 2018 we incorporated water and energy Energy efficiency reduces power consumption and avoids the savings into a facility’s operations thus avoiding an end-of-pipe ‘cost’ creation and maintenance of new sources like thermal power plants USD 0.8 / kilolitre USD 0.1 / kilolitre Our water efficiency projects > Municipal water supply USD 2.6 / kilolitre USD 0.06 million / Negawatt > 1.17 0.91 0.68 Water tanker Our energy efficiency projects Cost of saving 1 Average cost of Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 kilolitre of water purchasing water in India *USD million per MW † 0.11 Cost of avoiding use of Cost of setting up 1 MW 1 MW of power power plant > 0.10 0.10 USD 0.10 / kWh In 2018, our energy efficiency projects saved 1 MW of power for USD India Vietnam Bangladesh Our energy savings 0.06 million – lower than the cost of setting up a 1 MW power plant. projects ‘Negawatt’ or negative megawatt represents one megawatt of *USD per kWh power saved by increasing energy efficiency or reducing Cost of saving 1kWh of Average industrial electricity consumption electricity tariff in geographies we operate 17 † http://cea.nic.in/reports/others/planning/irp/Optimal_generation_mix_report.pdf making the business case We believe in value-based growth strategy: accounting for our GHG footprint and GHG Footprint and Inventorisation Image: Pixabay Our value-based growth strategy incorporates accounting for our GHG footprint and finding avenues for reducing our emissions year on year 3-year GHG footprint (tonnes of CO2 equivalent) GHG inventory FY 2018-19 Scope 1 11.69 Scope 2 18.49 5 0.20 4 0.87 FY 2018-19 Scope 3 3 5.96 Annual GHG emissions Scope 1 2 11.78 15.07 Scope 2 1 21.07 152.6 tCO2e 178.27 tCO2e 70.05 tCO2e 16.59 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 5 0.85 5.87 4 1.57 5.57 FY 2017-18 Scope 3 3 13.50 2 16.56 1 114.13 GHG emissions 2.26 intensity/capita Scope 1: Refrigerant leakage ( ) Fuel consumption by company cars ( ) Scope 2: Purchased Electricity ( ) 19 Scope 3: Paper Use ( ) Business Travel by air ( ), rail ( ), cab ( ) Employee Commute ( ) 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 GHG inventory UN Sustainable Development Goals We believe in value-based growth strategy: accounting for our GHG footprint and Image: Pixabay At cKinetics, we are committed to propagating the global 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Our work and business strategy in 2018 have been geared towards meeting various targets within the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Resource & Energy Efficiency Capital Market Instruments 13 12 9 8 7 6 7 8 17 in Apparel/Footwear Sectors for Solar Rooftop Sector Apparel Supply Chain GHG & Green Finance Taxonomy, ESG 12 9 8 7 6 13 17 Water Footprint Analysis Driven Finance Framework Resource Efficiency in Apparel GHG Inventory & Energy 12 9 8 7 6 3 7 8 9 12 Mills and Laundries Efficiency in Indian SMEs Financial Innovation to Sustainable and Responsible 9 7 2 12 13 Catalyse Decentralised RE Investment in India Cleantech Innovation Investment Policy Tracking for 13 7 9 Investment Profiling Indian DRE Sector Wastewater Recycling Resource Efficiency, Recovery 12 6 6 7 8 9 Systems in Industrial Parks Systems in Textile Sector DRE Solar Lighting and GHG Emissions: Measuring, 7 3 7 12 13 Electrification Investment Monitoring and Reporting 21 Sustainable Development Goals Principles of UN Global Compact Image: Pixabay Principles of the UNGC Our Mission is to develop market driven solutions to promote the rapid adoption of sustainable growth strategies in emerging market industries and communities. As a part of its ongoing commitment to mainstreaming sustainability, cKinetics is proud to support the UN Global Compact Principles. These principles have been a Policies for dealing with incidents of Human Right Violations and strong component of the firm’s core growth strategy and expansion process. Corruption Materiality of UNGC Principles We are committed to diligently managing our business operations, both internally as well as in external stakeholders, in a manner which reflects our high ethical Given its role as a specialized Sustainability Advisory firm, cKinetics has limited standards. cKinetics has a zero tolerance policy with respect to incidents of exposure to Sustainability Risks and ESG impact through its own operations. Thus, corruption, both in the public and the corporate sphere. materiality issues surrounding the UNGC Principles, their implementation and subsequent outcomes have been evaluated through the following lens: 1. How, and to what extent, do the principles apply to cKinetics in its operations? 2. How, and to what extent, can these principles become central to the service offerings of cKinetics and, thus, attain the desired impact created through its business operations? Actions and Tools for Implementation Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct outlines the expectations and aspirations of cKinetics management and staff in key areas of Human Rights, Corruption and Work Force Environment, etc. Operating Principles Our Mission and Vision guide the strategic planning and day-to-day operations of the firm. Our Vision is to accelerate the creation and maintenance of systems which shape a balance between current and future resource needs. Adherence to UNGC Page 23 23 adherence to UNGC Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes cKinetics is committed to upholding Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and Rights, in its capacity as a responsible business, The Code of Conduct defines our commitment to respect the protection of internationally in letter and in spirit, as it is material to the human rights; it outlines our stance and strategy for proclaimed human rights; and company. preventing the abuse of human rights. All employees There have been no cases of Human Rights and extended stakeholders are expected to abide by it. violation of human rights within our Principle 2: make sure that they are not Operating in emerging markets pose a number organization or in our day-to-day complicit in human rights abuses. of unique human rights challenges. cKinetics is Any violation can be reported confidentially (through operations. committed to the reporting of any human rights an anonymous email ID) and the individual will be violations observed in the course of conducting protected from repercussions. its business operations. There were no reported violations of labor principles. As a firm with a presence in multiple Each employee met with the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the manager twice to discuss the geographies, cKinetics is in compliance with all Any violation can be reported confidentially and the freedom of association and the effective rec performance, concerns and goals. relevant local regulations in its respective individual will be protected from repercussions ognition of the right to collective bargaining operations Employees are allowed 1 day per We conduct weekly, monthly and half yearly meetings Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of month to attend conferences, The prevalence of the informal, unorganized, with the team wherein feedback is actively Labor forced and compulsory labor seminars and programs for sector in India poses a number of distinct incorporated into the company’s policies and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child challenges in adequately assessing some of our strategies. We continually provide opportunities, knowledge advancement. labor small suppliers’ adherence to Principles 4 and 5. through training and access to industry conferences, All internally reported complaints However, we make a concerted effort to for our workforce to grow intellectually and and concerns were dealt with on a Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination maintain constant vigilance when working with professionally. priority basis . in respect of employment and occupation local small businesses. We sponsor employees who wish to take up educational courses relevant to their domain. 24 adherence to UNGC Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes Our team is currently engaged in actively monitoring Smart use of resources is an As an advisory firm, cKinetics has a limited and tracking our electricity consumption using a suite Operating Principle of cKinetics and socio-ecological footprint. However, we are Principle 7: Businesses should support a of metering and analytics software. We also focus is on reducing consumption. actively engaged in managing our resource precautionary approach to environmental consumption and maintain constant efforts to ascertained our corporate GHG footprint based on the Energy measurement system challenges. engage with our employees and the community Corporate GHG Protocol standard and are working on installed to actively track energy in a responsible fashion. reducing our footprint. consumption. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake Environment initiatives to promote greater Our commitment to sustainability is at the very HacK (How to at cKinetics) is an internal document Reuse of paper made mandatory environmental responsibility core of our business mission, vision, and which defines our expectations and commitments and recycling is encouraged. operations. cKinetics has made strong regarding the team’s alignment with our mission and Principle 9: Businesses should encourage Our visiting cards are printed on contributions to sustainability in India and other vision to create positive impact. the development and diffusion of recycled paper and the stationary environmentally friendly technologies geographies such as Vietnam and Ethiopia. We We also encourage and support our employees to be (folders) distributed at our seek to create real impact through our various cognizant towards environmental impact and conventions are made of recycled business initiatives. undertake resource efficient efforts. paper. cKinetics supports all 71 articles of the UN The Code of Conduct defines our expectations and Principle 10: Businesses should work against Convention against Corruption (UNCAC). commitments regarding anti-bribery practices both in There have been no reported our own operations and in those of our partners. incidents of corruption involving Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including We take an active, zero-tolerance, stance the organization or one of its extortion and bribery against bribery and corrupt business practices Any violation can be reported and the individual will employees. through diligent monitoring and enforcement. be ensured protection from reprisal. 25 adherence to UNGC BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT This section presents disclosures as per Business Responsibility Report (BRR) requirements. The framework presents indicators developed from the 9 core principles of the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) that were announced by the Indian Ministry of Corporate Affairs in 2018. While cKinetics does not face a mandate in disclosing a BRR, we are eager to engage with, and promote, this initiative both within our own operations and those of our clients. Section A: General Disclosures 1. Name of the Company: cKinetics 10. Number of permanent employees: 25 2. Year of Registration: 2010 11. Contractual employees (seasonal, non-seasonal): 4 3. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company (if applicable): 12. Temporary employees: 2 U74140DL2010PTC197656 13. Percentage of women: 4. Corporate address, telephone, email and website: See back page a) On the Governance structure: 0% 5. Sector(s) that the business is engaged in (industrial activity code): N/A b) In top management, i.e. business and function heads: 33% 6. Goods manufactured/services provided (top three by revenue): 14. Names of subsidiary/associate companies: cKinetics Inc., cKinetics 7. Brands (top five by respective share of market) owned and percentage of Accelerator Trust, cKers Finance revenue contributed: cKinetics, Sustainability Outlook, Parivartan Awards, 15. Details of Trust/Society/Section 8 company to further its CSR agenda Sustainable Business Leadership Forum a) Names: N/A 8. Location of plants (in case of manufacturing businesses) b) Organisation form (Trust, Society, Company) and year of a) National (Districts and states – top five by employee strength): N/A establishment: N/A b) International (Country top three by employee strength): N/A c) Main objects/purpose: N/A 9. Location of major offices (in case of service businesses) d) Amounts and sources of funds received in the reporting year: N/A a) National (Districts and states top five by employee strength): New 16. Contact details of Nodal Officer for this report (name, designation, email Delhi id, phone number): Upendra Bhatt, Managing Director, b) International (Country top three by employee strength): India, United contact@ckinetics.com, + 91.11.4050.7277 States 27 BRR Section B: Management and Process Disclosures Disclosure Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Policy and management processes 1. Names of the policy/policies that covers each Principle Y NA Y Y NA Y NA NA NA 2. Core elements related to the Principle that the policy/policies cover Y NA Y Y NA Y NA NA NA 3. Policy/policies relating to each principle that has been translated Y NA Y Y NA Y NA NA NA into guidelines and procedures 4. Extent to which manpower, planning and financial resources have been allocated for the implementation of the policy/policies relating Y NA Y Y NA Y NA NA NA to each Principle 5. National and International codes and standards adopted mapped to Y NA Y Y NA Y NA NA NA various principles Governance, leadership and oversight 1. HacK (How to at cKinetics) is an internal document that defined our expectations and commitments 6. Names of the above polices that have been approved by the regarding the teams’ alignment with our mission and vision to create positive impact. Board/top management 2. Code of Conduct (covering Human Rights, Labour and Anti-Corruption) 1. Executive directors of the company are directly responsible for oversight of the policies. 7. Name of the specified committee(s) of the Board/Director/Officer 2. Quarterly meetings are conducted wherein feedback from employees is actively incorporated into the and processes to oversee the implementation of the policy/policies company’s policies and strategies. We continuously provide opportunities, through training and access to industry conferences for our workforce in order to grow intellectually and professionally. 28 BRR Section B: Management and Process Disclosures Disclosure Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Governance, leadership and oversight 8. The process for board/top management to review performance against the Bi-annual and annual reviews are conducted on adherence to the policies with relevant stakeholders like above polices and incorporating inputs (100 words) clients and employees with feedback incorporated into policy review/Updation. Compliance is addressed by the administration and the finance functions which provide regular updates tot 9. Process for board/top management to review compliance with statutory the top management on the compliance and the statutory requirements based on defined monthly requirements of relevance to the Principles and rectify any non processes. In addition, the company has a formal internal audit function undertaken by a 3rd party that compliances (100 words) cross-checks these matters. 10. Frequency of the reviews of the business’ alignment with the Principle Annual and Core Elements conducted by the board/top management Stakeholder Engagement 11. . Description of the process to identify your business’s key stakeholders The company has completed partial mapping of its stakeholders. Stakeholders are identified based on the (100 words) management’s understanding; there is presently no formal process to identify stakeholders. 12. Description of the process to engage with your stakeholders on the There is presently no formal process to identify stakeholders. Principles (100 words) 13. Description of the processes to identify groups that are vulnerable an There is presently no formal process to identify vulnerable and marginal stakeholders. However, the marginalized stakeholders (100 words) company has a formal CSR budget (2% of its profit) that it uses to engage the community. 14. Description of the processes to identify issues related to inclusion and impact of adopting the Principles on vulnerable and marginalized N/A stakeholders (100 words) 29 BRR Section B: Management and Process Disclosures Disclosure Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Communications 15. Description of process to communicate to stakeholders, the impact of The company publishes the annual Sustainability Action Report (SAR) which is widely disseminated to your policies, procedures, decisions and performance that impact them employees, customers, and the wider community that has chosen to engage with it. In addition, the SAR is (100 words) published on the cKinetics website and also uploaded to the UN Global Compact site. 16. Description of how the business communicates the results of stakeholder The company does not have a formal process for stakeholder engagement. Engagement during the year is engagement in the public domain (100 words) conducted through meetings, discussions, and participation in industry forums/conferences. 17. Description of the process of communicating performance against these The BRR is made part of the Sustainability Action Report and widely disseminated. Guidelines to relevant stakeholders (100 words) A key component of our business strategy of our company is relevant and timely feedback on our 18. Note on how disclosures and reporting helped in improving business disclosures and reports from stakeholders. This helps us improve our business model and enhance our performance/strategy (50 words) services in line with the needs of our clients and the communities we engage with. 30 BRR Section C: Principle-Wise Performance Disclosure Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators Principle 1 1. % coverage of all employees by awareness programmes for the Guidelines, 1. Month/year of last review by Governance structure/top management of performance a) in reporting year: N/A since the guidelines were released in March 2019 of the business across the Principles and Core Elements of the Guidelines: June 2019 b) Total to date: 100% 2. % coverage of leadership team by awareness programmes on the Guidelines, a) in reporting year: N/A since the guidelines were released in March 2019 2. % of suppliers and distributors (by value) covered by social and environmental audits: N/A b) Total to date: 100% 3. % of suppliers and distributors (by value), in the year: 3. Was report on responsible business conduct, made in the year a) Covered by awareness programmes for the Guidelines: N/A a) As per mandatory/global reporting standards: N/A b) Had responsible/suitable business policies in place: N/A b) Assured by a third party: N/A 4. Number of meetings/dialogues with minority shareholders that were organised in the 4. Details of non-disputed fines/penalties imposed on your business by regulatory and year: N/A judicial institutions in the year available in public domain: N/A 5. Number of complaints received on any aspect of the NGRBC in the year: No complaints 5. Provide examples (up to three) of corrective action taken on the above fines/penalties have been received during the year imposed: N/A 6. Provide examples (up to three) of corrective action taken on complaints/cases of 6. Number of above complaints pending resolution at close of year: N/A corruption and conflicts of interest to prevent recurrence: No complaints/cases on corruption or conflicts of interest were received during the year. 31 BRR Section C: Principle-Wise Performance Disclosure Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators Principle 1 7. Value of non-disputed fines/penalties imposed on your business by regulatory and judicial institutions in the year: N/A 8. Number of complaints / cases of corruption and conflicts of interest that were registered in the year: None 9. Details of unmet obligations (fiscal, social, etc.) arising out of any benefits or concessions provided by the central, state, or local governments (100 words): N/A Principle 2 1. List top three goods /services (revenue in the year) which incorporate environmental and social concerns, risks, and/or opportunities in their design: 1. For goods and services incorporated environmental and social concerns, give details of ▪ cKinetics’ practice areas: Sustainable Energy, Resource Management and Efficiency a) Resource use (energy, water, raw material) per unit produced in the year: Details of (RME) resource use are given on pg. 19 b) Reduction in resource use covering sourcing, production, and distribution in the ▪ Sustainability Outlook is a market intelligence platform incubated by cKinetics to advance year: Our GHG inventory (pg. 19) covers resource use and emissions attributable to the mainstream conversation around resource conservation and risk mitigation issues cKinetics during the year 2018-19. ▪ Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) India’s leading market development c) Sustainability standards/codes/labels adhered to: Principles of the UN Global platform which equips organizations, managers and industry stakeholders on the ‘how’ Compact of sustainability through a unique programmatic approach comprising of round the year d) Product life cycle assessment completed: N/A programs and ‘on-ground industry oriented’ work 2. Details of investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social 2. Information on the impacts of your products across the value chain: N/A impacts (top three by value): N/A 32 BRR Section C: Principle-Wise Performance Disclosure Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators Principle 2 3. % of input material and services (by value), in the year, sourced from suppliers 3. Provide examples (up to three) on how the feedback received from stakeholders is used adhering to internal or external sustainability standards/codes/policies/labels: Not for improvements: N/A tracked 4. % of total raw material consumed in the year (by value) that consisted of material that was recycled or reused (provide details in 50 words): >25%; Reduce and reuse initiatives for paper products are an ongoing campaign in the company. 5. Describe the process in place to safely collect, reuse, recycle and dispose of your products at end-of-life (100 words): N/A Principle 3 1. Complaints received on cases arising out of discrimination: No complaints received 1. Categories of employees (list up to three) supported by affirmative action, and has there during the year. been any change from the previous year: N/A 2. Number of the above complaints pending resolution at end of the year: N/A 2. % of permanent employees that are linked to any standing platform/association: N/A 3. % of permanent employees who are members the employee association(s) recognised 3. % of children identified as employed in your establishments/value chain that have been by the management: None remedied: No such individuals present in our establishments/value chain 33 BRR Section C: Principle-Wise Performance Disclosure Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators Principle 3 4. % of your establishments/value chain has been audited in the year for 4. % of forced/involuntary labour identified in your establishments/supply chain a) Child labour: N/A remediated: N/A b) Forced/involuntary labour: N/A 5. % of total raw material consumed in the year (by value) that consisted of material that was recycled or reused (provide details in 50 words): >25%; Reduce and reuse initiatives 5. % of your suppliers (by value) that paid minimum wages to their employees last year: N/A for paper products are an ongoing campaign in the company. 6. Examples of steps taken (up to three) to prevent adverse consequences to the 6. Number of cases of forced labour/involuntary labour identified to date: None complainant in the case of harassment cases: No such complaints were received during the year. 7. % of supply chain partners (by value) that were assessed for adherence to health and 7. % of employees that were paid above the legal minimum wage in the last year: 100% safety practices: N/A 8. Ratio of the highest salary paid to the lowest salary paid amongst your permanent 8. % of accident-affected persons integrated back into employment: N/A employees: 10:1 9. Describe the work-life balance issues (up to three) brought up by employees (100 words): 9. Number of cases of delay in payment of wages during the year: None No such issues were brought up with management. 10. Examples (up to three) of identified work-life balance topics that have been 10. Number of complaints related to harassment to date: None implemented: None in the reporting period. 34 BRR Section C: Principle-Wise Performance Disclosure Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators Principle 3 11. Number of the following that occurred during the year a) Accidents at the workplace: None b) Fatalities caused: None c) Disability caused: None 12. % of employees (all categories) trained on health and safety issues and measures: 0% 13. % of employees provided training and skill upgradation a) in the year: 80% b) Total to date: 84% engaged in Learning and Development Sessions Principle 4 1. Frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group: A formal process is in place only 1. List stakeholder groups that have been identified as key to your business: Customers, with employees where weekly, quarterly and six-monthly engagement is structured. There Vendors, Investors, and Employees is no formal process with other stakeholders. 2. Examples (up to three) of how the business has incorporated inputs from stakeholders: 2. Positions/departments/functions responsible for engagement with each stakeholder Based on employee feedback, the company has created formal L&D processes and also category identified above: Top management and senior management enhanced the communication tools for engagement. 3. Number of stakeholder groups that were formally engaged on environment and social 3. List of the vulnerable and marginalised groups in each stakeholder group: Vulnerable and issues in the last year: Customers and Employees marginalised groups are not presently a material stakeholder. 35 BRR Section C: Principle-Wise Performance Disclosure Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators Principle 4 4. Examples of decisions and actions taken by the business to address the interests of 4. % of input material and services (by value), in the year, that were procured from local vulnerable/marginalized groups: We partnered with the NGO Nai Disha to conduct a health and small vendors/producers: Not tracked camp for local communities as part of our CSR Initiatives. Principle 5 1. % of contractual employees that have been made aware/provided training on human 1. % of employees that have been provided training on human rights issues rights issues a) In the year: 100% a) In the year: N/A b) Total to date: 100% b) Total to date: N/A 2. Employee categories that are covered by the human rights policies of the business: All 2. External stakeholder groups and representatives that are covered by the human rights employee categories are covered – Permanent, Contractual, and Casual. policies of the business: N/A 3. Stakeholder groups that have been made aware of the grievance mechanisms for human 3. Number of business agreements and contracts with third party partners that were rights issues reviewed in the year, to avoid complicity with adverse human rights impacts in the a) During the year: N/A previous year: N/A b) Total to date: N/A 4. List (up to three) corrective actions taken to eliminate complicity with adverse human 4. Stakeholder groups governed by the grievance committee for human rights issues: N/A rights impacts in the last year: N/A 5. Number of stakeholders that reported human rights related grievances and/or 5. Provide (up to two) examples of a business process being modified/introduced as a result complaints: None of addressing human rights grievances/complaints: N/A 36 BRR Section C: Principle-Wise Performance Disclosure Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators Principle 5 6. Provide details of the scope and coverage of any human rights due-diligence conducted during the year: N/A Principle 6 1. Material risks of potential or actual adverse impacts upon the environment and 1. Information on environmental impact assessments undertaken in the year: N/A communities by the business: None 2. Risk management strategies and measures for each material environmental risk identified 2. Good practices (up to three) in reduction, recycling, and reuse initiatives that for the business contributed to lowering the adverse environmental footprint of your business a) Details of measures (100 words): The company does not have material activities: Waste segregation on-premises; paper reduction/reuse initiatives; environmental risks. However, other organisations are actively engaged to address encouraging use of public transport for employee commute their environmental risks. b) Targets and achievement values: N/A 3. Examples of any collective action by your business with other businesses/NGOs/ 3. Details of your specific contribution to India’s Nationally Determined Contributions government agencies/international partners/ development institutions undertaken to (submitted at UNFCCC COP21 in 2015): RE capacity enabled – 64 MW. We improved address any of the environmental risks opportunities identified above: N/A resource efficiency in industrial facilities details of which can be found on pgs. 4, 8-9 4. New businesses/products/services created to address the material environment risks 4. Details of any adverse orders in respect of any show cause/legal notices from identified CPCB/NGT/SPCB received during the year: N/A a) Information on businesses created (100 words): N/A b) % of revenue contributed by these: N/A 5. Details of good practices cited in reduction, recycling, and reuse initiatives benchmarked against industry best practice (100 words): N/A 37 BRR Section C: Principle-Wise Performance Disclosure Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators Principle 7 1. Review public policy advocacy positions by the governance structure for consistency 1. The public policy positions available in the public domain: None with Principles of these Guidelines: N/A 2. Names of trade and industry chambers and associations that you are a 2. Examples (up to three) of any policy changes in the past year as a result of your advocacy member/affiliate of: UN Global Compact, Alliance for an Energy Efficient Economy efforts: N/A (AEEE), Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) 3. Details of any adverse orders received from regulatory authorities for anti-competitive 3. Details of corrective action for anti-competitive conduct: N/A conduct by your business: N/A 4. Monetary contributions (if any) that have been made to political parties: None Principle 8 1. Social impact assessments of your business operations conducted 1. With respect to social impact assessments a) Number completed in the year: None a) Results made available in the public domain: None b) Number conducted by an independent external agency: None b) Details of any actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts (100 words): N/A 2. Examples of products, technologies, processes or programmes (up to three) that contribute to the benefit of the vulnerable and marginalised sections of society: We 2. Number benefitting from such beneficial products, technologies or processes: Not tracked partnered with the NGO Nai Disha to conduct a health camp for local communities as part of our CSR Initiatives. 38 BRR Section C: Principle-Wise Performance Disclosure Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators Principle 8 3. With respect to projects during the year for which R&R is applicable 3. With respect to projects during the year for which R&R is applicable: N/A a) Was the R&R package developed in consultation with project affected people: N/A b) Information on gross amounts made available in the public domain: N/A 4. Channels/platforms used to communicate information regarding resolution of 4. Grievances/complaints received from local community: None grievances/complaints from communities: N/A 5. Details of investments (top three by value) in regions which are underdeveloped (100 5. Examples (up to three) of economic and social value addition in these underdeveloped words): N/A regions (100 words): N/A 6. Examples of goods and services (up to 3) that incorporate local traditional knowledge: 6. Examples where benefits of this local traditional knowledge being used by the business N/A are shared with the community: N/A 7. Number of beneficiaries covered under your CSR projects (as per Section 135 of 7. Details of adverse orders or judgements in intellectual property rights dispute related Companies Act 2013), disaggregated by the vulnerable and marginalised group categories: to traditional knowledge during the year (100 words): N/A Not tracked presently 8. Summary of the key themes covered by CSR initiatives (as per Section 135 of 8. Examples of how the impact of your community initiatives contribute to local and Companies Act 2013) or linked to the CSR Policy of the business (100 words): Health national development indicators: Not tracked presently and Well-being (collaboration with Nai Disha NGO) 39 BRR Section C: Principle-Wise Performance Disclosure Essential Indicators Leadership Indicators Principle 9 1. Examples (up to three) where adverse impacts of goods and services of your business 1. Corrective action taken on adverse impacts of goods and services of your business: N/A have been raised in public domain: N/A 2. % by value of goods and services of the business that carry information about a) Environmental and social parameters relevant the product: N/A 2. List of national/international product labels, certifications being used by the business: N/A b) Safe and responsible usage: N/A 3. Channels/platforms where information on goods and services of the business can be 3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of data privacy: None accessed: ckinetics.com, sustainabilityoutlook.in 4. Steps taken to inform and educate vulnerable and marginalised consumers about safe and 4. Number of consumer complaints in respect of advertising: None responsible usage of products (100 words): N/A 5. On complaints received in respect of data privacy and advertising, indicate what 5. Number of consumer complaints in respect of delivery of essential service: None corrective actions were taken to ensure that these do not get repeated (100 words): N/A 6. Processes in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services (100 words): N/A 40 BRR India Office US Office Building No. 24-30, First Floor 12042 Plumas Drive, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase 3 Saratoga New Delhi-1100120, INDIA CA 95070, USA Ph: + 91.11.4050.7277, Ph: + 1.650.331.1931 +91.11.4105.1195 Email: contact@cKinetics.com <<closing image>> To know more about how cKinetics can help your organization improve bottomlines and meet environmental targets, visit www.ckinetics.com or write to us at contact@cKinetics.com
