Betting on Sustainability Sustainability Report 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sustainability Report 2018 1 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (102-14, 102-15) Message from the CEO Our third sustainability report summarizes our activities and progress in 2018 toward shared value creation for our stakeholders and sustainable operation. In 2018, we continued to adopt the best global standards and practices, by renewing our commitment to the UN Global Compact ten principles. Also, we aligned our sustainability initiatives with the UN Sustainable Development Goals joining efforts with international and national organizations. We fulfilled 90% of the sustainability commitments we set for 2018, driving projects and programs such as our Self-Exclusion Program to promote responsible gambling, the “Naipes Rosas” campaign to support cancer patients, and the “Aulas Abiertas” program which offers primary and middle education for our employees. Year on year, we seek to engage our stakeholders in our initiatives further, broadening their impact. Logrand Entertainment Group is observant of the potential growth opportunities that may arise from profitability and operational efficiency, which underpin our strategy. We are pleased to see how the gaming industry in Mexico is in a transparent development process as a result of demographic growth and better acceptance and recognition of this entertainment option. We also note increased business participation in fora and industry networks, which will help implement jointly with authorities better regulations to provide certainty to investors of this growing and dynamic sector. We strongly believe the implementation of our Sustainability Sergio Saide M. Strategy will contribute to our long-term objectives, will bring shared value creation for our stakeholders, and will differentiate us from other companies within the industry. 3 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 4 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Content Message from the CEO ...................................................................3 Logrand Entertainment Group........................................................6 Sustainability...................................................................................13 Customers....................................................................17 Communities...............................................................21 Our Employees............................................................26 Supply Chain...............................................................32 Environment...............................................................34 Regulatory Compliance..............................................37 Commitments in 2018...................................................................39 About this report.............................................................................41 UN Global Compact.........................................................................42 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.......................44 GRI Content Index...........................................................................45 5 (102-1, 102-3, 102-7) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Logrand Entertainment Group About us Logrand Entertainment Group is a Mexican company with headquarters in the City of Monterrey, México, focused on providing entertainment services. We began operations in 2005, and by December 31, 2018, we had 13 casinos in México, with a minority interest in 3 of them. We have 6,600 slot machines and Only in 2018, we served 4.3 millon In 2018 we received more than 30 gaming tables. meals. 350,000 customers in our casinos, and more than 68,000 customers registered to our online platform. We employed 3,449 people. Also, in 2018, we donated more In 2018 we began a self-exclusion than $3 millon pesos to charitable program as part of our Responsible organizations and projects. Gambling Strategy. 88% of our suppliers are SMEs. We recycled 1.1 tons of PET and We provided 190,000 training and (according to results of our supplier 19,696 liters of oil. education hours. survey 2018) 6 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (102-2) Our offer Casinos We have 13 casinos located in 7 Mexican states where we offer different entertainment options and food of the highest quality. Slot machines Live gaming tables Food and drinks There are approximately 6,600 slot We offer more than 15 original games We provide food service in 13 restaurants of machines in our casinos, which are our patented by Shuffle Master, an international our casinos, offering a wide gastronomical leading service. We offer entertainment Gaming Brand. We have the latest range from regional dishes to on-demand experiences through our gaming machines entertainment systems, with technology international cuisine and buffet service. and receive more than 16,000 customers on and innovation in 30 table games at the two We serve food and beverages to satisfy any a daily basis. We have gaming machines of casinos where we offer this service. occasion both on the gaming and machine more than 25 manufacturers, all of them areas and at the different restaurants and certified by the Mexican Interior Ministry. Our gaming offer is the most extensive and bars. We work with manufacturers from Austria, complete in the national market. Our most Germany, Brazil, Spain, Slovenia, Czech popular games are Blackjack, Ultimate Texas Our restaurants have been recognized year Republic, England, Italy, Japan, US, Australia, Hold’em, Craps and American Roulette. on year through the Distinctive H granted and Bulgaria. by the Health and Tourism Ministries. In All shuffle machines are endorsed by 2018 for the first time, we were awarded All of the slot machines in our casinos the certification of Gaming Laboratories the Gastronomical Balance Distinction are tested with the highest standards for International (GLI), which validates that our conceded by COFEPRIS (Federal Commission its proper operation. Also, international products successfully passed lab test and for Protection Against Sanitary Risks) certification laboratories such as BMM inspections ensuring the randomness of TestLabs and Gaming Laboratories gaming results. Only in 2018, we served 4.3 million meals International approves our machines’ and more than 1.1 million drinks in addition randomness. to our courtesy service of water, coffee, and soft drinks, catering in this way for 4.2 million services. Online The online division has a wide variety of entertainment products comprising various verticals including sports betting and casino, offered through Strendus. We have renowned international suppliers within the top 5 of the industry, all of them offering their services in the most developed and regulated markets in Europe, Asia, and America. Currently, our online gaming offer is the most extensive and complete within the national market, with pre-game sports betting, live sports betting, slots, betting games, video bingo, gaming tables, and live gaming tables, in addition to sports events streaming and statistics of all world leagues. 7 (102-2, 102-4, 102-6) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Casinos Nuevo León Campeche Tabasco Sinaloa Jalisco Yucatán Quintana Roo Timeline 2005 2008 2010 2013 2018 2007 2009 2012 2015 8 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (102-16, 201-1) Financial information In 2018 we increased the Generated Economic Value of the company This year, we paid more than 1.2 billion pesos fulfilling our fiscal obliby 5.8% and the Distributed Economic Value by 6.2% compared to gations. Also, we donated more than 3 million pesos to charitable last year. We allocated 3.4 billion pesos (MXN) to operational costs, institutions that work nationally to improve the life quality of people wages and benefits, tax payments and donations, generating in this in need. way, value for our suppliers, employees, and communities. Table 1. Economic Value Generated and Distributed (million pesos) 2016 2017 2018 Economic Value Generated (EVG) 3,084 3,489 3,692 Economic Value Distributed (EVD) 2,932 3,243 3,446 Retained Economic Value (EVG-EVD) 172 246 246 Ethics and values Mission To be leaders in creating unique and exciting experiences, surpassing the expectation of our customers, employees, and the community in the gaming and entertainment industry. Vision Entertain, excite, and transcend. Our values We do the right We achieve Passion is We lead We provide our customers We dream and create thing even when more with less our drive by example with a home feeling and the the extraordinary nobody is watching employee as a family member 9 (102-17) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Code of Ethics and Behavior Guidelines Our Code of Ethics and Behavior Guidelines govern our behavior In 2018, we added a specific Code of Ethics to the suppliers’ weband the interactions among employees, the company, and its page. The topics of this Code include, the ten principles of the UN stakeholders. Both institutionalize processes based on the values Global Compact covering protection and respect of Human Rights, underpinning Logrand Entertainment Group’s development and Labor Rights, Environmental Protection and Anti-corruption. growth. Through our Code of Ethics, the employees commit to respect, honesty, and collaboration values, seeking a growth that generates social value for the communities around us. Code of Ethics Components Stakeholder relations Operations and activities Health and Security • Customers • Conflict of interest • Workplace health & safety • Suppliers • Gifts and hospitalities • Asset protection • Authorities • Compliance and Anti-Money • Data management • Community Laundering (AML) Report Lines It is essential for Logrand Entertainment If the employees identify any irregular situaManagement of complaints is carried out by Group to have the appropriate tools to detion, they must report it through the avaiexternal consultants and our Ethics Comtect any irregular act infringing upon our lable means such as the report phone lines, mittee administers any issue related to the Code of Ethics. With such tools, we strengemail, and webpage, which are available 24 Code of Ethics and its application, including then the principles and values underpinning hours a day, 365 days of the year. Complaints the report lines. In 2018, we received 143 the company. are treated confidentially and anonymously complaints through the report lines of wheif requested. re 92% of them were closed by the end of the year. Table 2. Number of complaints reported 2018 Number of complaints received 143 Closed 132 In process 11 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (102-18, 102-20) Corporate Governance Our corporate governance serves as a decision-making framework The Institutional Relations Director has responsibility on matters underpinning our actions about the company’s impacts. It allows of economic, social and environmental landscape and reports us to operate more efficiently and responsibly, to achieve a better directly to the CEO. competitive advantage, better reputation, and better business relations. Therefore, it is crucial to have a corporate government comprised of high-level experts with enough experience to resolve all situations that may arise. General Assembly of Shareholders Board Consultive Board Audit Finance Strategic Technology Ethics Committee Committee Planning Committee Committee Committee CEO Board of Directors Figure 1. Corporate governance structure 11 (102-12, 102-13) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 External Initiatives and Associations United Nations Global Compact Association of Licensees, Operators Transformation Industry Chamber and Suppliers of the Entertainment (CAINTRA) In 2017 we joined the largest global social and Gambling Industry in Mexico responsibility initiative, the UN Global Com(AIEJA) We are members of CAINTRA, Nuevo León, pact, and in 2018, we affirmed our coman association with a mission to repremitment to its ten principles. We work every We participate as members of AIEJA, which sent, promote, and serve the interest of day towards their fulfillment in areas such as represents the interest of businesses in the the industrial community of the State of Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environmental entertainment industry. AIEJA strategic Nuevo León. Protection, and Anti-corruption. objectives include driving the country’s economy, act as spokesperson with the local, state, and federal government and to promote domestic and foreign investment. National Chamber of Restaurant and Valle del Campestre District (DVC) Seasoned Food Industry (CANIRAC) DVC is an initiative created in 2013 to imWe are part of the National Chamber of prove the quality of life of the people who Restaurants and Seasoned Food Industry, live, work, transit or study in the Valle del and we take part of the different courses Campestre District in the municipality of and training they offer. San Pedro Garza García, where is located our corporate office. Logrand Entertainment Group has participated in the implementation of the sustainable comprehensive mobility project. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Sustainability Sustainability Strategy Five pillars comprise our Sustainability Strategy that set the structure of our economic, social, and environmental impacts and has as its objective the generation of shared value. At the same time, Material Topics comprise our sustainability pillars, which were defined by our stakeholders through a materiality assessment. They guide the company´s efforts toward a sustainable operation. As part of our commitment to the environment and stakeholders, our social responsibility projects are aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, aiming to actively contribute to poverty eradication, planet protection, and prosperity for all. Customers Environment Employees Logrand Entertainment Group Sustainability Supply Chain Communities 13 (102-40, 102-42, 102-43) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Stakeholders It is necessary to consider each stakeholder of the company to develop a sustainability strategy of broad impact. It is imperative to assess the opinion of all the stakeholders that have an impact in Logrand Entertainment Group. • Associations, Chambers and Control • Government Organizations • Suppliers • Customers • Neighbors • Employees • Non-governmental organizations • Potential employees • External advisory board and shareholders For each of these stakeholder group, we have a communication strategy focused on listening to and assisting them according to their specific characteristics and needs. Suppliers we bpage Ma Personal interactio ter Satisfa n Person iali ction surve Mat ys ty a eriali Sus ty as Social media sse al intera Su tain sess Co abi men y sta t sur ssm mp lity vey ve Jo ina Su lai nt rep ort sur Email bs bil ent Job f st me nt ea ction ain ch e ity sur ab an m rc airs ism ss he rep vey Supplie ilit yr s ss e So ng ort l rs ep ya ion tia lit ct les ci in or ia ra al t Ne tab en es es er e int m at ing ot i ed l Em a rk ye M on wo ia ail o Com We P pl b Pe rs sa nd plai bp age m gh up nt m ro E sg sC Inter ech u nal d anis Foc ashb oard ms or il ent su rvey (Kios E a m sessm ham k) lity as Satisfactio or C at t e r ia aniz n surveys Ma y report org Sustainabilit Communication Chanontro l bers Gover Materiality assessment survey ction ions Personal intera nels or Mechanisms/ loyees Sustainability report Emp Personal interaction ing tables Focus grou ps and work ring Stakeholders SMS Focus grou Mento ps and wor Ema il me n Email king tables tion t Mate rialit rac Sus y ass inte e tain essm al ag SM abi ent s son bp NG lity urve Per We ne t Ma S rep y sh tra nel are O Su ter ort In n ers h o ld s Fo sta ialit a cu ina y a Ch Cu es of s g bi ss d ain me ss t o ro lity essm les Bo a r an ab ment up tab r en rd n s a epo g tis ilit su Lo fac tio yr rs rv tio ts ur ing ep ey nd rt ac Inte ns urv ort ve y ork w Mate er rnal ey or Sustaina das s int hbo Em kin dw l as ard a ai s Pers (Kio il al ona g an s riality ty st l int k ) ta Em rson erac bl ps ial Su tion i Call es rou bility repo er Pe at Sa cen ter sg M Webp age cu n ctio Social m Fo edia ail tera SMS Em onal in ey rt t surv Chat smen s Per asses : Daily / : Weekly / : Monthly/ :Bimonthly / : Trimonthly / : Annual / : Occacionally 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (102-44) According to an interview analysis carried out for our materiality assessment, we identified critical topics for each group of stakeholders. Throughout the report, we included actions we implemented in 2018 to address each of the priority topics considered by our stakeholders. Table 3. Priority Themes by Stakeholders Chambers and Customers Employees Government Potential Control Employees Suppliers Neighbors Organizations NGOs Board Key Topics by Stakeholders Group Responsible gaming Customer Health and Safety Gaming transparency Personal data protection Optimal working conditions Diversity and equal opportunities Employee training and formation Supply chain Energy consumption and emissions Waste management Water consumption Community engagement Regulatory compliance Governance Profitability 15 (102-46, 102-47) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Materiality Assessment In 2018 we updated our materiality matrix to identify and assess the most relevant topics for our stakeholders to improve our sustainability efforts. We carried out a total of 3,480 surveys answered by our customers, employees, management, suppliers, board members, neighbors, NGOs, potential employees, and regulatory bodies. These surveys represented 39.8% more than in 2017. Thanks to the survey results, we can focus our attention on projects around topics considered relevant by our stakeholders, impacting positively our sphere of influence. Development of Stakeholders Survey Analysis of the materiality mapping implementation results matrix Materiality Matrix 5.0 E P B C 4.75 Relevance for Stakeholders O N A J I M H D 4.5 K G F L 4.25 4.0 4.0 4.25 4.5 4.75 5.0 Relevance for the company A. Governance I. Work conditions B. Regulatory compliance J. Workplace Health and Safety C. Transparency K. Employee training and development D. Supply chain L. Diversity and equal opportunities E. Economic performance M. Community F. Energy and emissions N. Personal data protection G. Water O. Health and safety of customers H. Waste management P. Responsible gaming 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Customers “There are two reasons why sustainability is fundamental for Logrand Entertainment Group, the first one, is to give credibility to the industry. In our society, gambling is a sensitive industry, and therefore, it is our responsibility to implement programs and activities aiming at making the sector more transparent to become more responsible toward our customers and their families. The second reason is that as part of the entertainment industry, we want to give back to society through activities focused on solving societal problems.” -Egber Hernández D. Marketing and Commercial Director Responsible Gambling One of the priorities of our Social ResponEuropean Commission on its RecommenGambling and made available educational sibility Program is to promote responsible dation dated 14 July 2014, wherein recital information including contact informagambling. Our mission is to create exci12, estimates that between 0.1% and 0.8% tion of organizations that give free advice ting and unique experiences, and we do it of the adult population suffers some kind nationally, on all our casinos and our webby developing a non-addictive gaming enof disorder linked to gambling. Similarly, page. vironment. We are committed to promote according to research by the Swedish healresponsible gambling as an entertainth authorities, in Sweden, 0.45% of the poWe provided 1,150 hours ment activity and to provide our customers pulation suffers an addiction to gambling. with protection tools in cases when their of training on responsible gambling is no longer enjoyable. Concerned about the wellbeing of our cusgambling to our employees. tomers, in 2018, we started a Responsible In Mexico there are no in-depth studies Gambling Program which included the deabout compulsive gambling, however, ployment of the Voluntary Self-Exclusion we note that our self-exclusion cases are Procedure. To this end, we have trained consistent with the rates published by the more than 900 employees on Responsible Voluntary Self-exclusion Program In 2018, we implemented a voluntary self-exclusion program in all our casinos nationally, as well as on our online platform, aiming to guide customers that believe they can use a break from gaming. When voluntarily subscribing to this program, the access to any slot machines or gaming tables in the casino is restricted for as long as the client decides. 17 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Health and safety of our customers A key aspect for us is to provide a safe and healthy environment for our customers. “Through our safety brigades, We have strict protocols focused on the we organized emergency drills customer health and safety, as well as complementary programs that allow us for customers and employees, to improve their experience; from healthy as safety is essential for Logrand meals to benefits of our loyalty programs. Entertainment Group. We want In all our casinos and corporate offices, we our customers to feel safe and protected in our provide emergency and accident prevention training to all our employees. Only in facilities”. 2018, we reached a total of 8,199 training hours on these areas provided to 1,549 participants. -José Antonio Jácome C., Risk Management Director We carried out 48 desk drills in 12 business units and as in previous years, all our customers actively participated guided by our trained and certified brigades. Comprehensive “The comprehensive assistance Assistance service was created with our Comprehensive assistance is one of the benefits that has positioned us as the precustomer’s health and safety in ferred choice of our customers. We reward mind. We wanted to provide an our customer’s loyalty through The One Rewards program but also through a wide extra benefit beyond their casino range of services. The comprehensive asexperience. We are the only company nationally sistance benefit is available since May 2018 to the four levels of our loyalty program; it within this industry that offers that kind of includes services such as ambulance and benefit.” telephone assistance or a comprehensive support package. -Fernando Martínez M., Depending on their level within the program, customers can benefit from teCRM Specialist lephone medical and emotional assistance, ambulance, general check-ups, nurse service, among others. Another advantage of this benefit is that customers can use it in any city of Mexico (even in places where the Group has no presence) with telephone assistance available 24 hours a day. 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (418-1) Advanced Emergency System Personal Data Protection In the casinos located in Monterrey and Guadalajara we have an The information of our customers, employees, candidates, and Advanced Emergency System to assist in emergencies of our emsuppliers is one of our main assets,” as part of our regulatory ployees and customers. If a customer is not feeling well, we can framework; we are aligned to the Federal Law of Personal Data provide medical onsite assistance by certified doctors and parameProtection in Possession of Private Entities and the standard on dics who can treat, provide medication and if necessary, transfer to information security, ISO27001. To keep the trust of our stakespecialized care facilities. holders, we protect the privacy, confidentiality, and safeguard of such information to avoid leaks or the misuse of it. Also, we implemented a Pre-hospital Emergency Care Protocol, communicated to the relevant staff, besides the compulsory traOur Security Policies, Procedures, and Practices including confiining. This protocol includes all the steps to follow in the event of dentiality, integrity, and availability of information are executed a pre-hospital emergency. In this way, we assess and classify the by the Department of Information Security jointly with our Legal attention needed by the customer promptly. Compliance Department who also develops training plans. During this reporting period, no complaints or incidents related to steal or loss of data occurred. Distinctive H In 2019 we plan to develop training on the security of information and on the use of personal data to raise awareness among our emAt Logrand Entertainment Group we work to provide service with ployees about these issues and the legal obligations regarding the the highest food handling standards, which allows us to ensure Law of Personal Data Protection in Possession of Private Entities. quality in everything we do. For this reason, 12 of our food consumption centers have the certification Distinctive H, which is awarded by the Ministry of Tourism of Mexico (SECTUR as per its acronym in Spanish) to companies with high quality and hygiene standards. We have obtained this distinction for ten years in a row with an assessment of 100% compliance. 92% of our food consumption centers have the Distinctive H “Gastronomical Balance” Distinction In 2018 we obtained the Gastronomical Balance Distinction, an award granted by the Ministry of Health (SSA as per its acronym in Spanish) to establishments that contribute to the National Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Overweight, Obesity, and Diabetes, when including healthy and balanced gastronomical options in their menus. 19 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Transparency in gaming The trust of our customers is the key to remain as the leading company in the market. For that reason, we continuously work to provide tools that guarantee transparency in gaming. On Slot Machines: On Gaming Tables: • 100% of the machines and titles are tested in a laboratory for its • For an impeccable gaming we follow the Official Guidelines for appropriate operation. Gaming Tables Product Responsibility which contains relevant standards and requirements. • All our machines have documentation certifying that we operate them legally in Mexico. • For clarity and customer trustworthiness we have payment calculators developed under international standards. • All our game titles are original from the software manufacturers. • We use original patented games with official payment tables. • 100% of our slot machines suppliers are legally incorporated in Mexico. • We standardized our processes and procedures following international best practices. • We fulfill all the regulatory requirements of information of the Interior Ministry on a monthly basis. • In 2018, we provided more than 1,500 training hours to dealers on the official procedures of live gaming tables. • All customer complaints are 100% validated with the manufacturers. • Our dealer personnel were trained on high-performance academies attaining more than 67,000 training hours. • All the prizes and (card) loads over the permitted limit go through processes concerning regulations for anti-money laundering. Customer Satisfaction As a strategic initiative, we implemented a Customer Centric Management and Culture. This approach will allow us to understand their experience and level of satisfaction and to improve our product and service offering. We opened different channels of communication to receive customer’s comments and perceptions. By doing this, we seek not only to improve our operation but to maintain and develop our employees’ talent and culture so they can provide exceptional service. Some tools to achieve the above include satisfaction surveys regularly carried, suggestion boxes placed at every casino, social media, and telephone, satisfaction and loyalty indicators, as well as our customer management relation system. Also, all the processes and staff within the Customer Experience Department are subjected to regular audits. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (413-1) Communities Logrand Entertainment Group supports the development of the communities where it operates and aims to generate shared value in collaboration with many organizations and institutions working on community issues. We support development through different activities such as donations, volunteering, sale of goods supporting social causes and charity races, in which we jointly promote awareness on social issues. These activities differentiate us before the industry and among potential investors and support our community involvement by promoting stakeholder engagement and developing projects that generate value. “At Logrand Entertainment Group we are committed to improve the quality of life in our communities. We aim to achieve it through initiatives targeted at the creation of shared value.” -Francisco J. Gutiérrez C. Director of Institutional Relations 21 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 “Naipes Rosas” Our Lady of Guadalupe Adopt a Tree Project In October 2018, we launched our “NaiOur employees’ children adopted green pes Rosas” campaign that sold pink plaIn May 2018, we joined the Project of Our and red oak trees during a family event of ying card decks and donated 100% of the Lady of Guadalupe in Monterrey. We cothe company. These trees originated from profits to associations supporting Cancer llaborated through the Casino Hollywood seeds of our gardens, and were looked patients such as the Cancer Center at the Valle Alto in a fundraising event organized after by our employees while they were Hospital of the Autonomous University of by Cáritas in benefit of the Parrish of Our growing. Finally, they were adopted to be Nuevo Leon, the Association of Women of Lord of Mercy. Thanks to this effort, this planted on areas in need of reforestation. Yucatán against Cancer and Grupo Reto in community will benefit from the construcThrough activities and games, participants Tabasco. tion of a church, a football pitch, a communilearned how to cultivate this type of tree. ty center, and a medical dispensary. A total of 100 oak trees were donated for In addition to raising awareness among our this activity. employees and customers, we raised 439,119 pesos through the sale of these cards. This amount was destinated to support causes of those prestigious institutions. “We developed an innovative model supporting a worthy cause. In such a challenging market it is important to undertake this type of initiatives. Without any doubt, we are at the level of the best international companies and in México, we are setting a trend.” -H. Marcelo Silva M., Tables Product Manager 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Mexican Association AMANEC 5K Race Christmas Party for Supporting Children Senior Citizens with Catastrophic On October 6th, 2018, we organized the First AMANEC 5k Fundraising Race. Five Diseases (AMANEC) hundred twenty runners supported this In December 2018 the Dubai Palace Casino helped the State Federation for Senior Citicause participating in the race, including zens in Quintana Roo State, A.C. (FEDHAM) Logrand Entertainment Group supports employees, their families, customers, suto organize their traditional Christmas AMANEC who provides comprehensive meppliers, among others. The race raised Party. FEDHAM is a nonprofit organization dical care and the support of highly specia$158,245.50 pesos for this association. aiming to improve the quality of life of selized doctors and professionals to patients nior citizens. More than 350 senior citizens of cancer, kidney disease, diabetes and other enjoyed the Christmas Party bringing back catastrophic diseases and their families. In some Mexican traditions. At the event, 2018, Logrand Entertainment Group donathey spent quality time with their friends ted more than 1 million pesos to this orgaand our staff. nization. “These events strengthen the company’s culture and daily values, fostering teamwork, and looking to innovate and contribute to our community. This race allowed us not only to support the medical treatment of AMANEC children, but also to have a wholesome convivial event with our colleagues. We will be looking forward every year to get set, run together, and support a good cause.” -Luz Andrea Díaz K., Procurement Regional Head and 5k Project Leader 23 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Maria Cristina Nuevo Leon University Top Grades Students Specialized Center Hospital Cancer Research Center Every year in Tabasco we support an event rewarding children enrolled in primary As every year, we continue to provide a monthly donation to the Specialized Ceneducation with outstanding grades. On In 2018, we granted 1.2 million pesos to ter Maria Cristina, which offers special this occasion, we donated 1,700 backpacks the Hematology Service of the Nuevo education to children, young people and to motivate students to continue their stuLeon University Hospital Cancer Research adults in vulnerable situations with Down dies with excellence. Center. With our contribution, this center Syndrome. The objective of this organizaprovides free diagnostic studies to people tion is to empower, rehabilitate, form, and with leukemia who are unable to pay for support people with Down Syndrome, immedical expenses. We also help drive the proving their integration and helping them cancer research efforts of the Center. achieve a better quality of dignified and independent life. At the Center, beneficiaries undertake recreational, sport, cultural and occupational activities. In 2018, we donated 180,000 pesos, which were allocated to cover fixed overheads. Casa Indi Linares Diocese Christmas Toys In October we supported the Normative Donation In July 2018, we donated furniture such as Institution for Homeless Casa INDI, A.C in tables and desks to equip the offices of the Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, by donating food To recognize the extraordinary work of Diocesan Curia of Linares. destinated to people with difficulties to saMexican Military Forces, during Christmas tisfy their basic needs. we donated 1,500 toys to children of soldiers of the State of Nuevo Leon. 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Bonanza Park We continue to support the maintenance of Bonanza Park adjacent to our casino Taj Mahal in Villahermosa, Tabasco. In previous years, we refurbished the surveillance booth, football pitch, and social spaces in the neighborhood. Through the local government program ‘Adopt a Park,’ we committed to upkeep and maintain the park. We went even further and organized social events to build trust between our company and the neighbors. In addition, we provided free meals to the neighborhood guards as well as a temporary resting spot. As it is a tradition in December 2018, the staff of the Taj Mahal Casino organized a Christmas Party for neighbors, offering dinner, music, and presents and gathering more than a thousand people including children, youngsters, parents, and grandparents. “Comedor de los Pobres” In May and June 2018, twenty-two employees of our casinos and corporate offices participated as volunteers in the Priest Roberto Infante Soup Kitchen. The volunteers attended to the Community Center “Bicentenario de la Independencia” located in Monterrey and to the soup kitchen located in the municipality of Guadalupe where they participated serving food to people in situation of vulnerability in celebration of Children’s day. “Our involvement in volunteering activities is an excellent opportunity to contribute to the different needs existing in our society. Participating in volunteering activities has always a positive impact for the organization receiving such support, for participating staff -as it strengthens their values-, and for Logrand Entertainment group -as it transcends and generates a model of contribution to society”. -Martha E. del Campo P., Volunteer and Project Portfolio Manager 25 (102-8, 405-1) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Our Employees Diversity and Equal Opportunities At Logrand Entertainment Group we value the diversity of our employees and we offer equal opportunities for all. 40% of women and 60% of men comprise our workforce. All our employees have permanent contract and 99.6% work full-time. We also have staff coming from Spain, Italy, Colombia, Uruguay, and Venezuela, making our team even more diverse. Employees by Age and Gender • 1200 • 1000 60% • 800 40% • 600 • 400 • 200 • 0 18-24 25 34 35 44 45 54 55 years Men Women years years years years o more As part of our objective to recruit more women and provide equal opportunities for all, this year, we hired women for positions traditionally occupied by men, for example, in the valet parking. “We believe our employees serve as a bridge to customers, and for that reason, our goal is their wellbeing. We want our employees to be strong and prepared for all what the company wants to achieve, which will be accomplished only with their support.” – Guillermo Varela R., Director of Human Resources 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (403-1, 403-2, 403-4, 403-7, 403-8) Women @ Work Forum Engaging People With Disabilities To promote a work culture focused on gender equality, this year The objective of this program is to promote a culture of inclusion we invited 20 women employees to participate in the Forum by hiring people with disabilities. In 2019, we plan to carry out a Women@Work: Breaking Ground which took place in the EGAdiagnostic that allow us to define the positions where we could DE Business School at the Tecnológico de Monterrey. The Forum start this program, as well as profiles, legal requirements, recruitprovided a space to inspire women and drive them to action ment sources, and assessment mechanisms. through conferences, workshops, and community work. Optimal Working Conditions In order to have a valuable workforce, we believe is essential to offer optimal conditions for their professional development. For this reason, one of our material topics is related to the provision of adequate tools and a pleasant working environment that favors their wellbeing. Through the Logrand’s Standard of Working Conditions we guarantee our employees that services, facilities, and other factors at their disposal meet world-class standards. With clearly defined criteria for tangible and intangible factors as well as their assessment and measurement, we can develop action plans to correct, improve or maintain the working conditions we offer. In the New York Casino, we began a project called Puertas Abiertas in which we invite our employees’ families to get to know the company, its facilities, its products as well as the services we offer. In sum, we encourage them to experience being part of the Logrand family. Health and Safety of Our Employees At Logrand Entertainment Group, we have a dedicated team that monitors Health and Safety compliance implementing tools aligned to the relevant laws and regulations. The team is responsible for health and safety matters of all the company’s employees from the moment of hiring to the end of their contract, including their respective benefits, personal protection equipment, and risk communication and training. The Civil Protection, Safety, and Hygiene Management Unit guarantees our compliance with the corresponding regulatory framework. Each regulation guides the unit that manages our specific requirements. Every year and according to the General Law of Civil Protection, we analyze internal and external risks, including physical, natural, and chemical dangers in the workplace. With our Accident Report and Control System, we investigate incidents to identify its cause/root, which then is handled by the Civil Protection, Security, and Hygiene Unit for its immediate remediation. The unit informs the outcomes to the Safety and Hygiene Commission. 27 (403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403-5, 403-6, 403-7, 403-8, 403-9) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 In 2018, we had 178 work accidents representing 3% more than in 2017. We are working to reduce this number through communicaWork Accidents tion campaigns on care and health prevention with the support of • 200 the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (Social Security Mexican Institute). • 150 • 100 In the Jubilee Casino, we established an infirmary with healthcare staff who provides medical care and deploys healthcare campaigns. • 50 In 2019 we will extend this program to the rest of the casinos. • 0 In December 2018, we provided safety training for our corporate sta2016 2017 2018 ff so they are prepared to face any risk scenario that may arise. We Men Women offered 8,199 hours of instruction in areas such as first aid, search, and rescue brigades, evacuation, prevention, and firefighting. 1,549 employees participated in brigade training during 2018 Training and Education Aware of the importance of having a well-informed staff, one of the strategic initiatives to reach our objectives for 2021 is Talent Attraction, Retention and Development. It comprises of six projects including Open Classroom and Logrand University. We aim to develop and prepare staff for future positions, ensuring business continuity and the company’s future. The objective of the departments Training and Development, Technical Training, and Human Resources Planning is to develop talent within the organization. We offer organizational training focused on competency development, executive management, and business culture; we also provide technical training, focused on specific skills for staff such as service assistance, cashiers, valet parking, dealers, among others. We train all our employees to provide an added value to their post and the organization, resulting in better customer service. Aulas Abiertas Program One of the most significant employee development projects is Aulas Abiertas. During the first phase, its objective is to define and develop a structure to offer basic and middle education to employees who require it, backed by official education institutions. Initially, it will be deployed in two casinos in Monterrey. In 2019, we will implement the program at the national level. Finally, in a third phase, we envisage participation our employees’ immediate family members. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (404-2) Logrand University Logrand University contributes to our strategy of Talent Attraction, Retention and Development. We aim to establish Logrand University as a strategic element that allows us to have the best talent available and to achieve our business strategy. Logrand University ensures that competencies, organizational abilities, behaviors, and values are aligned to Logrand’s culture. In 2019 the objectives of this program include adding a bachelor’s degree and three technical university degrees as well as to implement “development stairs” in 7 operational positions. Talent Bank Talent Bank is a program seeking a comprehensive development for employees in middle-management positions. We want to foster their development within our company helping them become the future successors or candidates to executive positions and our main agents of change. In 2018, 52 employees participated in this program. Middle Management Leadership Program This program aims to enhance competencies, abilities, attitudes, and tools to improve managerial and operational practices of our business leaders, in line with our business culture, strategies, and objectives. In 2018, the program reached 182 middle-management employees nationally. Six modules, including Logrand Leader, Training Leader, Leader and its team, Execution Focused on Customers, Communication Leader, and Logrand’s culture and values, comprise this program. CHIISPA Our CHIISPA program contributes to the fulfillment of our emMentors and Round Discussion Focus groups Pupils Tables ployees within the company. In 2018, we implemented this model in 6 casinos of Monterrey, in the corporate offices and with the Operator Class. We provided 87 workshops and achieved an annual retention of 90% of employees that concluded the worksEvents and Motivational CHIISPA Workshop hop. The program has seven management tools: Competitions Talks • +70,600 training hours. • +930 employees certified in CHIISPA. CHIISPA Space 29 (404-2, 404-3) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Socially Responsible Leaders For a second consecutive year, 13 Logrand employees took the course “Socially Responsible Leaders”, organized by SELIDER, a civil society organization in Mexico and Latin America, aiming to promote a culture of inclusion and civil participation for the benefit of society. Every year this training course brings together around 100 Mexican leaders of different industries, to positively influence companies, politics and Mexican society in general. The sessions lasted two and a half months and some of the topics included: Corporate Social Responsibility, Leadership Abilities, Ethics and Values, and Current Needs in Mexico. Lifelong learning In 2018 we continued to invest in the education of our employees and their families by providing scholarships up to 47% in prestigious universities for undergraduate and postgraduate studies. Thanks to this initiative more than 50 employees and their family members have continued their studies at Tec Milenio, Universidad de Monterrey, Universidad Regiomontana, Universidad del Valle de Mexico and Centro de Formación Académica de Monterrey. Performance management 100% of our executive positions are assessed through performance management reviews that consider results against objectives of each position, as well as behaviors, competencies and service agreements through a 360° Assessment. In this way, we drive the professional development of our employees and encourage them to reach their objectives and contribute to the company’s growth. 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (404-2) Competency-based Certification This year, 50 employees from different operational positions obtained a competency-based certification related to their job competencies. Logrand continues to strengthen its employees’ competencies and seeks to become a certification entity that provides training to other companies. In September 2018, we started working in standards for operational positions including cashiers, service assistance, waiters, and dealers, where we assessed approximately 800 employees. Our objective is to implement the certification in other casinos of the group and continue the assessment of 6 additional positions. “The results of this assessment allowed us to identify the strengths and opportunity areas of each casino in order to improve and carry out internal certifications. In this way, our employees are prepared to be certified by an external body, ensuring a performance aligned to specific standards”. -D. Zayda Enríquez S., Technical Training Officer 31 (102-9) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Supply Chain “Sustainability is an essential factor in our supply chain that helps us achieve a better customer service, efficiency, profitability, and to support our suppliers and the community. Achieving this is what makes us a socially responsible company.” -Nereo A. Cantú S., Director of Finance We aim to generate value to society and to suppliers through the census guide our supply chain sustainable strategy as they provide procurement of sustainable products and services and by promoinformation on opportunity areas on which we could work together ting a responsible culture at all levels of our supply chain. We foswith our suppliers. ter alliances with our business partners and serve as link between them and other stakeholders. Our business partners range from Our suppliers are*: small food producers to international companies selling casino products. Micro and Small Enterprise: 78% are micro and small enterprises. Managing our supply chain with a sustainable approach helps us to have suppliers committed to a continuous improvement Responsible: of their internal processes and to the community. Also, such su50 % of our suppliers develop socially responsible policies or inippliers are inclined to work with standardized processes, ensutiatives. ring the quality, regulatory, and product compliance sought by our organization. Environmentally friendly: 60% carries out recycling or waste recovery activities. The company’s supply chain is managed through: Inclusive: 19% of our suppliers have employees with disabilities and 36% Automatization of Incorporation indicators of sustainability has accessibility plans for people with disability. 72% of our surequeriments in tenders pplier companies have leadership positions occupied by women. Procurement Policies and supplier assessments *According to the results of the Supplier Census 2018, applied to Procurement tender Standarized processes in 500 suppliers. proposal all bussines units In order to know our impact, we need detailed information of our supply chain. Hence, in 2018 we started to gather supplier data When selecting a supplier, we take into consideration their sector which has helped us to get to know them better, particularly in certifications and their fulfilment of all product and service requiregard of their sustainability efforts and opportunity areas. rements allowing us to comply with our own certifications such as Distinctive H and other legal regulations (Ministry of Health, Ministry In 2019 we will develop supplier relationship strategies to drive of Labor). the sustainability of our supply chain based on those results and the supplier census. Also, we offer our suppliers a transparency mailbox so they can express their concerns, reports, and proposals. In 2018, for the first time we carried out a supplier census aiming to inform our plans to diversify our supplier base. The results of this 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (408-1, 409-1, 412-3) Teamwork Uno a Uno: Taller Protegido Logrand Entertainment Group aims to develop quality suppliers Size of our suppliers committed to sustainability. The supply of bottled water is essential to our business units; therefore, it is important to have by employee number suppliers with high commercial and quality standards. When assessing the bottled water market, we found Uno a Uno, Taller Protegido, which is a company offering not only an excellent product 12% at competitive prices but also an alternative to support the community through the employment of vulnerable groups. 10% 34% By purchasing this product, Logrand Entertainment Group contributes to solve the issue of unemployment of people with disabi44% lities. Currently, our company buys customized bottled water for two of its casinos, ¡Viva Mexico! and New York, with an estimated monthly consumption of 48,000 water bottles. Micro (0-10) Small (1150) Medium (50100 ) Large (101+ ) Letters of Commitment to Social Responsibility “By purchasing our products, Logrand Since 2016, we request from our suppliers a letter of commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. In 2018 Entertainment Group we extended our own commitment to protect Human and Labor becomes part of this Rights, the Environment and to Fight Against Corruption to 28 inclusion project. additional suppliers of our supply chain. This contributes to our efforts to promote a more responsible business environment. At Uno a Uno, all 100% of our new suppliers in 2018 are committed to protect human, our employees are people with labor and environmental rights and to fight corruption. disabilities who are responsible for labeling, packing, and stocking the product. With this job, they can support their families.” Susana Rodríguez Uno a Uno Taller Protegido, Supplier 33 (102-11, 302-1, 302-4) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environment As one of our sustainability pillars, we aim to minimize the environmental impact of our operations by implementing projects focused on energy and water efficiency as well as an appropriate management of waste. Energy Due to the nature of our services, our energy consumption derives one of our impacts on the environment. For that reason, we monitor increasingly in more detail the energy consumption of each business unit while exploring and implementing energy-saving alternatives. From January to December 2018, we consumed a total of 29.33 GWh in our casinos and corporate offices. We managed to reduce our energy consumption by 1% compared to the same period in 2017. Energy Consumption (GWh) 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Talento Golden Grand HWC Jubilee Paradise Taj Mahal O.C Dubai Island Zapopan HWVA N.Y Providens V. M. 2016 2017 2018 We designed and built new premises for our corporate offices based We integrated LED lighting into our slot on regulatory LEED requirements to obtain LEED certification. Now, we use fewer resources and have higher energy and environmenmachines tal efficiency. Increased cognitive abilities, increased productivity, As part of the Valle del Campestre District initiative, we invited all our better collaboration, and better quality of life reflected some of the corporate employees to use the services of Bussi and SPLT shared results of this change. In addition, thanks to this change we reduced transport platforms which are part of the “Muévete Libre” program. by 43% the energy consumption in our offices compared to 2017. The objective of this program is to reduce transit and air pollution provoked by cars. In December 2018, Logrand Entertainment Group We reduced by 43% the energy was recognized as the Top #2 company in the area working for a better mobility culture and because of our use of these platforms. consumption in our corporate offices We are committed to replace every light fitting that needs to “The initiatives focused be changed to LED technology, so we are increasingly moving to on protecting the greener technologies. To date, we have achieved an 88% of LED lighting in our casinos and 65% in their offices. environment strengthen our culture and values. 88% of the lighting in our casinos As a company, we has LED technology, reducing our have a commitment environmental footprint with our customers, employees and At Golden Island Casino, we installed 22 slot machines with LED shareholders, as well as with society.” lighting in order to reduce their energy consumption, extend their life cycle, and help protecting the environment by using new -Raúl J. Sueiro V. technology. We will continue to integrate this technology to all the machines MK5 and MK6 in our casinos. Director of Operations 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (303-1, 303-3, 306-1) Water We aim to develop projects and initiatives promoting savings and efficient use of water, as well as to raise awareness among our customers and employees of the importance of this resource. In 2018, we consumed approximately 124,500 cubic meters of water. We obtained water from the municipal system, excluding the Providens Casino and Viva Mexico which are located on shared premises. Also, our water discharges follow the applicable regulations through the drainage system at each of the locations where we operate. Water Consumption (m3) 45,000 40,000 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 Dubai Golden HWC HWVA Jubilee N.Y Paradise Taj Mahal Island 2017 2018 *The Casinos Providens and Viva Mexico are not included as they are located within shared premises. Water Consumption This year, we joined the program ¡No te la bañes! ¡Cuida el agua!, launched by the Nuevo Leon State Government to raise awareness about the importance of preserving this resource. The project arises from the water scarcity problem in the state due to 4 lack of rain and high temperatures. For this project, we placed 48 3.5 cards with tips to promote proper use of water and water-saving culture in strategic places of our casinos in Nuevo Leon. 3 2.5 We joined the water saving and 2 awareness raising campaign launched 1.5 by the Nuevo Leon State government. 1 0.5 Also, as part of our water-saving initiatives we expanded our air0 con water-recovery project to the casinos located in the southern 2017 2018 area of Mexico. In 2018, through a system that harnesses water from condensation, we recovered 3.75 million liters in the casinos Million liters Dubai Palace (Cancun), Taj Mahal (Villahermosa) and Golden Island (Merida). This water is used to clean some machines and for watering our gardens. In 2018 we recovered 3.75 million liters of water against 1.5 million recovered in 2017 35 (307-1, 419-1) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Waste Management Aware of our impacts as a service company, we have implemented initiatives to help us reduce the environmental footprint of the organization. Increasingly we are moving to more ecological product choices, and we will continue working to be more environmentally responsible. PET recycling This year we implemented a pilot recycling program in our casino Hollywood Valle Alto. During the year we managed to recycle 1,181 kilos of PET which is equivalent to 84,357 water bottles, saving 46,366 liMoving away from single-use plastic products ters of water and 2,624 kg of fuel that would have been used to produce more plastic. In 2019 we plan to expand this program to all our In our casinos Viva Mexico and Taj Mahal, we have eliminated singlecasinos in the region. use plastic cups and bought reusable cups and glasses to promote We recycled 1.1 ton of PET equivalent to responsible consumption. In this way, we avoid generating waste of 1.86 million plastic cups yearly. 84,357 water bottles. Removing disposable cups in our corporate offices Cooking oil recycling In 2017, we removed the disposable cups in our corporate offices and We continue harnessing the cooking oil used in our kitchens and in thanks to the excellent response and commitment of our employees, 2018 through one of our suppliers we recycled 19,696 liters of cooin 2018 we also eliminated the rest of single-use plastic items incluking oil for biodiesel generation, increasing its life cycle. ding plates and cutlery. Aware of their environmental impact, each employee committed to this initiative and as result, we are avoiding waste of 130,000 plates and cutlery on a yearly basis plus the 76,000 plastic cups that we stopped using yearly since 2017. We avoided wasting 200,000 single-use plastic items* in our corporate offices. *Per year From Coffee to Compost At our casino Hollywood Valle Alto we reuse the coffee waste as compost, which acts as natural fertilizer providing nutrients to our gardens. With this practice we collect 5 kg of coffee per day, adding up to 150 kg monthly. No straws campaign We limit the use of straws at restaurants in our casinos by offering them only when customers request them. By doing this we have reduced in 85%, the consumption of straws avoiding that more than 100,000 straws end up in the landfill every month, which will take at least 100 years to decompose. We reduced the use of straws in more than 1,200,000 units per year. 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (307-1, 419-1) Regulatory Compliance “A strict regulatory compliance underpinned by our determination and professionalism is what positions us as a responsible company within a controversial industry.” –Luis A. Gutiérrez C., Legal Director It is very important for us to be a referent of transparency and adSome of our tools and best practices to mitigate the risks associated herence to legal frameworks as well as to maintain the values and with regulatory compliance of the operation are: culture of the company. Regulatory Compliance is one of the topics Handbook of regulatory Official compliance guidelines relevant to our stakeholders. Therefore, it is at the base of our Suscompliance and Money tainability Strategy and gives credibility to our efforts to create shaLaundering Prevention Polices red value. Regulatory compliance in Regular training MetricStream It is our responsibility to promote and monitor a strict adherence Compliance file in every casino Procedure to provide notices and compliance to the applicable laws and regulations. To succeed, of vulnerable activities to the The Legal Department develops robust Internal Policies and Procesauthority ses that ensure our business continuity as a responsible company. Use tools such as Lexis Nexis Our operation fully complies with the Federal Law of Gambling and Raffles, which regulates every activity of gaming and entertainment companies, as well as with all the applicable regulations. Regularly our casinos are subjected to internal and external audits as In addition, our Legal Department supports all areas of the organiwell as reviews and checks by the authorities to monitor the comzation to ensure business continuity, safeguard internal interests pany’s regulatory compliance. and indirectly promotes compliance among our stakeholders. The company’s legal team is comprised by staff specialized on regulaAs a result of our strict compliance and the 2,825 hours of training tory matters who has documented and implemented processes and provided to 565 employees, no fines or sanctions on social, econosystems to continuously monitor our overall level of compliance. mic or environmental matters were issued to the company in 2018. Regulatory compliance objectives One of the company’s commitments is to maintain legal compliance as licensee in regard to the Federal Law of Gambling and Raffles and the Federal Law of Prevention and Identification of Operations with Illegal Resources, as well as to undertake appropriate and timely actions to avoid any fines and sanctions by the authorities. In 2018 we invested $180,000 in training for our legal department and operational employees on regulatory compliance and money laundering prevention. 37 (205-2) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Anti-corruption At Logrand Entertainment Group, ethics and values guide any activity carried out in its name. We reject corruption, bribery, fraud, or any other illegal act. In 2018, we created an Anticorruption Policy and presented it to administrative staff and directors. The objective of this policy is to reinforce our Code of Ethics and the standards and values governing our behavior in order to comply with the applicable anticorruption regulations in Mexico and abroad. Senior Management and the Ethics Committee communicate and monitor full compliance to all the regulations and laws. Any violation to the Code of Ethics including corruption acts, can be reported through our report lines. Such reports are externally and internally verified. As members of the UN Global Compact, we are committed to adopt a clear position against corruption by incorporating strong principles and anticorruption practices in our operation and business strategies. 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Commitments 2018 Pillar Material Topics Commitment A P U Implement a self-exclusion procedure in the casinos. Responsible Gambling Initiate the self-exclusion pilot program and extend it to all the casinos of the group. Obtain the Distinctive H in 92% of our casinos. Add customers to our Accident Control and Registration System to identify causes and Health and Safety of prevent accidents. our Customers Broaden the scope of our health campaigns to include customers. Customers Create guidelines to manage vulnerabilities in the IT infrastructure. Ensure the appropriate information of our customers through the Master Data department . Personal Data Protection Develop training and an awareness raising program on use of personal data and the Federal Law on Personal Data Protection. Double the number of Prepa Logrand scholarships (Logrand highschool program) Implement Talent Bank training plans for middle management staff Training and Education Implement Logrand University training programs on management competencies for middle management and managers. Implement Logrand University training and education programs for operational and middle management levels. Organize talks on women empowerment and leadership for our employees. Strengthen our Talent Bank with more women leaders. Organize talks on Human Rights and Diversity. Diversity and Equal Opportunities Internal communication campaigns to promote our Code of Ethics. Update our Recruitment and Operational Staff Selection Policy. Employees Implement Logrand’s Standard of Working Conditions in all our casinos. Perform corrective and preventive initiatives based on results from the Accident Investigation and Monitoring System. Optimal Working Complete a compliance analysis to obtain the Certificate of Health and Safety Self-maConditions nagement in the Workplace awarded by the Ministry of Health and Social Prevision. 39 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Communication of Progress. Community Develop and implement community initiatives. Perform environmental assessments of the products more used in the company. All our new contracted suppliers will sign a letter of commitment to the 10 UN Global Compact Principles. Supply Chain Carry out a supplier census. Each lighting change will use LED technology. Implement energy saving campaigns in our corporate offices. Install thermal insulation or 100% of LED lighting in our new casinos. Environment To expand the water recovery system to all our casinos located in the southern region of Mexico. Develop waste management procedures. Implement PET recycling pilot program. Expand the PET recycling program to at least two more casinos. Explore replacing single-use plastic items with more sustainable alternatives. Offer training in our casinos on Money Laundering Prevention topics. Implement internal processes in advance of potential changes in the guidelines, regulations and the law of Gambling and Raffles. Automatize issuance of fiscal proof. Compliance Automize compliance self-assessments in our casinos. Actively participate in SEGOB consultations and committees. Ongoing verification processes ensuring an appropriate regulatory compliance. Issue an anticorruption policy. A = Achieved P = In process U = Unachieved 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56) About this report In our third Sustainability Report, we captured the economic, social and environmental impacts of our daily operations. Our reporting period covers from January 1 to December 31, 2018, excluding information on casinos with a minority interest. Our last report was published in July 2018, reporting information of 2017. From now on, the reporting development cycle will be annual. This report has not been part of an external assurance process. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. The GRI Standards are the most internationally recognized sustainability reporting standards. We appreciate your feedback and invite you to send your comments about the report to responsabilidadsocial@logrand.com 41 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 UN Global Compact Human Rights Labor Standards PRINCIPLE 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective PRINCIPLE 1: Support and respect the protection of internationarecognition of the right to collective bargaining. lly proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that we are not complicit in human rights labor. abuses. PRINCIPLE 5: Effective abolition of child labor. Our Commitment PRINCIPLE 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Logrand Entertainment Group adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and promotes the respect of Human Rights Our Commitment among its employees, suppliers and business partners. We are committed to the respect of labor rights based on the Policies, Processes, and Guidelines Declaration of the International Labor Organization and extend such commitment to our supply chain. • Code of Ethics • Report lines Policies, Processes, and Guidelines • Specific clauses in supplier contracts • Supplier Letter of Commitment to the UN Global Compact • Health and Safety Procedures • Report lines Actions 2018 • Specific clause in supplier contracts • Supplier Letter of Commitment to the UN Global Compact Diversity and equal opportunities: Pages 26-27 Supply Chain: Page 33 Actions 2018 Code of Ethics: Page 9 Report Lines: Page 10 Optimal working conditions: Pages 27-28 Diversity and equal opportunities: Pages 26-27 Report lines: Page 10 Supply chain: Page 33 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Environment Anticorruption PRINCIPLE 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental PRINCIPLE 10: Work against corruption in all its forms, including challenges. extortion and bribery. PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environOur Commitment mental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of enviLogrand Entertainment Group is committed to acting according ronmentally friendly technologies. to the applicable laws. It is a priority for us to comply with anti-bribery and anticorruption international standards fully. Our Our Commitment Code of Ethics affirms our intention and obligation to act honestly and ethically in all our business activities. At Logrand Entertainment Group we are aware of the environmental impact of our operations, and we aim to reduce it by inPolicies, Processes, and Guidelines tegrating technology and processes for a better resource utilization. • Anticorruption Policy • Code of Ethics Policies, Processes, and Guidelines • Report lines • Guidelines for Gifts Reception • Report lines • Procurement Policies • Supplier Letter of Commitment to the UN Global Compact • Supplier Letter of Commitment to the UN Global Compact Actions 2018 Actions 2018 Energy: Page 34 Water: Page 35 Anticorruption: Page 38 Waste: Page 36 Code of Ethics: Page 9 Report Lines: Page 10 43 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Goal Page 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agri25 culture. 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. 22, 23, 24, 25 4. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportuni24, 28, 30 ties for all. 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. 10, 27 6. Ensure access to water and sanitation for all. 35 8. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all. 12, 27, 33 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization; and foster innovation. 34 11. Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient, and sustainable. 25 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. 32, 36 16. Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies. 10, 27, 38 17. Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. 12 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 (102-55) GRI Content Index Standard Disclosure Page/Information GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization. Page 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services. Pages 7, 8 102-3 Location of headquarters. Page 6 102-4 Location of operations. Page 8 102-5 Ownership and legal form. Sociedad Anónima de Capital Variable (S.A. de C.V.) 102-6 Markets served. Page 8 102-7 Scale of the organization. Page 6 102-8 Information on employees and other workers. Page 26 102-9 Supply chain. Page 32 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain. In 2018 the Grand Zapopan casino was sold. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach. Page 34 102-12 External initiatives. Page 12 102-13 Membership of associations. Page 12 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker. Page 3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Page 3 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior. Page 9 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics. Page 10 Governance 102-18 Governance structure. Page 11 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and Page 11 social topics. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups. Page 14 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements. 70% of our employees belong to a union, and 100% of them are covered by a collective contract. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders. Page 14 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement. Page 14 102-44 Key topics and concern raised. Page 15 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements. JEYV de Nuevo León, S.A. de C.V., Operadora de Salas de Juego y Entretenimiento, S.A. de C.V., Operadora Megawin, S.A. de C.V., New Ads, S.A. de C.V., Administradora For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. 45 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 de Talento Ejecutivo, S.A. de C.V., Talento Institucional, S.A. de C.V., Operadora Loma Larga, S. de R.L. de C.V., Consorcio Integral Internacional, S.A. de C.V., Administradora de Bingo Cancún, S. de R.L. de C.V., Administradora de Entretenimiento Guasave, S.A. de C.V., Centro de Entretenimiento de la Laguna, S.A. de C.V., Newdrinks, S.A. de C.V., Alimin Sureste Cancún y Villahermosa, S. de R.L. de C.V., Operadora Class, S. de R.L. de C.V., Egaming México, S.A. de C.V., Marsa Platinum, S. de R.L. de C.V., FC Desarrollos, S.A. de C.V., Operadora CADYS, S.A. de C.V., STORM International Latin America S.A.P.I. de C.V., Hollywoodgames, S.A. de C.V., S.I.L.A. Monterrey Sur, S.A. de C.V., S.I.L.A. Santa Bárbara, S.A. de C.V., Grupo RGSA, S. de R.L. de C.V., Montevalores, S.A. de C.V., Operadora de Bingo San Agustín, S. de R.L. de C.V., Alimin Sureste Mérida, S. de R.L. de C.V. 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries. Page 16 102-47 List material topics. Page 16 102-48 Restatement of information. Page 41 102-49 Changes in reporting. Page 41 102-50 Reporting period . Page 41 102-51 Date of the most recent report. Page 41 102-52 Reporting cycle. Page 41 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report. Page 41 102-54 Claims for reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards. Page 41 102-55 GRI content index. Page 45 102-56 External assurance. Page 41 Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 9 103-2 The management approach and its components. Page 9 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 9 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Page 9 201-4 Financial assistance received from government. We did not receive any financial aid from the government. Responsible Gambling GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 17 103-2 The management approach and its components. Page 17 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 17 Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 18 103-2 The management approach and its components. Pages 18,19 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 18 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and The organization has not identified any safety impacts of products and services. non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes. Personal Data Protection GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 19 103-2 The management approach and its components. Page 19 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 19 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer Page 19 privacy and losses of customer data. Transparency GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 20 103-2 The management approach and its components. Page 20 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 20 Customer Satisfaction GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 20 103-2 The management approach and its components. Page 20 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 20 Community GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 21 103-2 The management approach and its components. Pages 21 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 21 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessPage 21 25 ments, and development programs. Diversity and Equal Opportunities GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 26 103-2 The management approach and its components. Pages 26, 27 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 26 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees. Page 26 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. No discrimination incident was reported through our report lines. Optimal Working Conditions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 27 103-2 The management approach and its components. Pages 27, 28 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 27 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system. Pages 27, 28 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation. Pages 27, 28 47 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 403-3 Occupational health services. Page 28 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on Pages 27-28 occupational health and safety. 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety. Page 28 403-6 Promotion of worker health. Page 28 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety Pages 27-28 impacts directly linked by business relationships. 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety Page 28 management system. 403-9 Work-related injuries. Page 28 Training and Formation GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 28 103-2 The management approach and its components. Pages 28 31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 28 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee. In 2018 we provided an average of 55 hours of training (administrative and technical) per employee. 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance Pages 24 31 programs. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Page 30 career development reviews. Supply Chain GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 32 103-2 The management approach and its components. Pages 32, 33 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 32 GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child Page 33 labor. GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forPage 33 ced or compulsory labor. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include Page 33 human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 34 103-2 The management approach and its components. Page 34 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 34 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization. Page 34 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption. Page 34 Water GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 35 103-2 The management approach and its components. Page 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 35 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Page 35 303-3 Water recycled and reused Page 35 Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 36 103-2 The management approach and its components. Page 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 36 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination. Page 35 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method. Page 36 Regulatory Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary. Page 37 103-2 The management approach and its components. Pages 37, 38 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach. Page 37 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Page 37 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and ecoPage 37 nomic area. GRI 205: Anticorruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and Page 38 procedures. 49
