Corporate Social Responsibility Communication on progress 2018, UN Global Compact Compliance with sections 99a of the Danish Financial Statement Act for the financial year 2018 Columbus, Lautrupvang 6, DK-2750 Ballerup Phone: +45 70 20 50 00, Fax: +45 70 25 07 01 www.columbusglobal.com, CVR.: 13 22 83 45 About Columbus Columbus is a global IT services and consulting corporation with more than 2,000 employees serving our customers worldwide. We bring digital transformation into your business and position you to thrive far into the future. We are experts in designing, developing, implementing, upgrading and maintaining digital business applications that help your business succeed in the digital transformation. Our consultants have experience in developing businesses in many different industries all over the world. We offer a comprehensive solution portfolio with deep industry knowledge, extensive technology expertise and profound customer insight. We have proven this through 29 years of experience serving more than 5,000 customers worldwide. 8,600 24/7 business application global support with implementations Columbus care 1,700,000 hours of consultancy every year 75,000 2,000 No.1 customer cases employees in digital solved every year commerce in the Nordics 5,000 customers 20+ world-wide strategic partnership with leading vendors Highlights 2018 Revenue EBITDA1 DKK 1,875m DKK 181m corresponding to a growth of 54%. corresponding to a growth of 22%. 1 EBITDA before share-based payment Columbus Software sales Recurring revenue and cloud revenue DKK 103m DKK 426m corresponding to a growth of 24% corresponding to an increase of 26%. The proportion of recurring revenue constitutes 23% of the total revenue. Profit after tax DKK 115m corresponding to an increase of 13%. Contents About Columbus 2 Highlights 2018 3 Statement from the CEO 5 UN Global Compact Principles 6 A global sustainable business 7 Columbus – a people business 10 Code of Conduct 12 Environmental and climate impact 13 Social Commitment 14 Corporate social responsibility in short 15 4 Columbus Statement from the CEO Columbus’ mission is to help our customers transform, maximize and futureproof their business digitally. We believe that building innovative business processes and harvesting the advantages of technology are the main drivers in building a sustainable and growing business. As the global business environment is working conditions, and development changing and the focus on building a of employee competences. sustainable business is increasing, the urge to maximize operations and We emphasize having satisfied futureproof businesses emerges. employees because they stay with us longer and are committed to contribute Columbus’ core business is to help to the development of Columbus. manufacturing, food and retail companies optimize and improve their Therefore, we strive to create an business in order to reach their goals environment in which we enjoy for a sustainable and growing business. working together and where our employees have the opportunities to We help our customers optimize and develop themselves professionally. Our improve their business processes and monthly employee satisfaction survey resource consumption, minimize waste is part of that focus as is our global in production, diminish emissions of Career and Competencies Framework chemicals, reduce energy and water (CCF). consumption and optimize distribution. Being a global company, there are We know that advanced technology natural differences in business cultures, and services such as Business rules and laws in the countries, where Intelligence, Analytics and Enterprise Columbus operates. To ensure that all Resource Planning ERP are core subsidiaries operate within the same enablers to reach sustainability goals business conduct, we have completed while optimizing and growing the Columbus’ Code of Conduct, which business. prospectively is the ethical guideline for our business operations. Everything starts with people Columbus is a people business. Columbus considers the overall Everything we do starts with our people achievements in relation to the and how they support our business, company’s corporate social customers, and communities around responsibility to be satisfactory and in the world. line with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Our main focus in Columbus is to ensure the well-being, attractive Thomas Honoré CEO & President Columbus 5 UN Global Compact Principles Columbus’s goal is to run a sustainable and profitable business. The CSR-efforts is an integrated part of our business model and comply with The UN Global Compact’s ten principles. Columbus has been part of the UN Global Compact since 2012, which shows our commitment to being socially and environmentally responsible. Columbus supports and enacts ten general principles of corporate social responsibility. These principles are based on internationally recognized conventions on human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. With this document, we confirm our support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the principles in our business. Columbus has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2012. 6 Columbus A global sustainable business In Columbus, we are committed to take care of our customers for has increased and become an life and help them reach their goals for a sustainable, growing and integrated part of the Group’s business profitable future through digital innovation. Columbus’s goal is to activities. By constantly monitoring and mitigating risks, Columbus aims to run a sustainable and profitable business. reduce risks to an acceptable level. The Executive Board is responsible for the ongoing risk management and A global business delivery model that allows us to deliver continuously considers and reviews key Columbus is a global IT services and 24/7 support to our customers. risks. Risk management is reported to consulting corporation with more than and discussed with the Audit 2,000 employees serving our customers Columbus2020 strategy Committee at committee meetings worldwide. Columbus’ five-year strategy, during the year. Columbus2020 was born with the Columbus holds a market leading ambition to be a leading global value The main drivers for Columbus’ CSR position within the manufacturing, provider of digital business solutions in actions are related to employees. retail, distribution and food industries selected industries. Employee retention and recruitment in our key markets. are important focus areas. Therefore, Columbus continues to invest in new the main risk identified within CSR is We are experts in designing, innovative business solutions, while at the failure to attract and keep our developing, implementing, upgrading the same time optimizing and skilled employees. In addition, the and maintaining digital business streamlining our services business. brand and reputation of Columbus is a applications that help your business Ensuring satisfied and successful key area as this is key in attracting succeed in the digital transformation. customers is an essential focus area for talents to Columbus. As we do not Columbus, as well as engaged and produce any physical products the nonWe offer a comprehensive solution motivated employees. financial risks related to the portfolio with deep industry environment are limited. knowledge, extensive technology Columbus2020 comprises four strategic expertise and profound customer interconnected elements; Customer Our due diligence processes and insight. Success, Digital Leadership, Our People guidelines for good business behaviour and Process Excellence. established for employees and Columbus’ business model is highly suppliers is formulated in our Code of transparent, and is built on three value Risks related to CSR Conduct and include firm value-based drivers: As a global company operating in a principles that address any risk that • Sale of consultancy and project highly competitive and rapidly changing could occur concerning these matters. implementation services global marketplace, Columbus is • Sale of Columbus Software licenses exposed to a number of commercial As part of the risk management, • Sale of Columbus Care, Columbus and financial risks. Consequently, it is Columbus has established a whistleSoftware, third-party software essential for Columbus to ensure that blower function for expedient and subscriptions, cloud and hosting risks are constantly identified, confidential notification of possible or which is recurring revenue monitored and controlled in order to suspected wrongdoing. reduce potential negative impact on Columbus’ main deliverables are growth, activities and results. Columbus has described our main risks services related to software and and the measures installed to mitigate consultancy. We operate with a global As Columbus has grown and developed them in the Annual Report for 2018. over time, focus on risk management Columbus 7 Customer Success – Taking care of our customers for life Columbus aims to be widely recognized as a business partner that Taking care of our customers is a fundamental goal for Columbus. enhances our customers’ success by improving the value An important foundation for reaching that goal is our lifetime realization of their business applications investments. support offering, Columbus Care, which ensures our customers high quality support around the clock. We will extend the Therefore, we will intensify our focus on creating a unique Columbus Care offering with new services towards a total service customer experience, including an extensive focus on better concept that takes care of our customers – for life. quality and project delivery throughout our business. Digital Leadership – Accelerate business innovation Columbus helps our customers accelerate business innovation by Columbus will extend our business and build a new leadership maximizing the value realization of business applications and by position in digital business transformation. Our customers are leading them in the digital business transformation. Digital seeking a business partner that is able to lead them in the digital Leadership comprises two different, yet closely connected types transformation of their business. Columbus wants to be that of innovation: partner. We will build a leadership position using cloud, social, Columbus will continue to strengthen our leadership position analytics and IoT (Internet of Things) technologies and business within ERP and business applications . This means that we will models, to enable our customers to take advantage of the digital invest in new business applications, new methodologies and new opportunities. business processes to make the experience of buying and implementing business applications from Columbus faster, better, less risky and with high returns. Process Excellence – Quality in everything we do In Columbus, we constantly strive to optimize and streamline the the business solution to the implementation process and lifetime business operations in order to achieve global sales excellence support engagement. We want to be best in class in ensuring the and deliver high quality services to our customer. Our goal is to value realization of the project and manage the inherent risks in create the best customer experience for our customers, when the implementation. In order to reach that goal, we will optimize engaging with Columbus. our sales, services and support delivery capabilities – always striving to improve the quality. The focal point is quality in everything we do – from the initial contact with customers, over sales and design of Our People – Attract, develop and retain the best people Columbus is a people business. Our greatest asset is our people Furthermore, we want to create a customer success culture, where and therefore it is crucial for our success that we attract and meeting the customers’ expectation for high quality sets the retain the best people in the industry. We want Columbus to be a direction in everything we do. This means that we always strive to company attracting highly skilled people to join, because it is the deliver projects on time, within budget and at the highest quality. best place for competence development. We will achieve this goal by providing challenging career opportunities, attractive working conditions and professional and personal growth. 8 Columbus Columbus helps ambitious companies transform, maximize and future-proof their business digitally Columbus 9 Columbus – a people business In 2016, we launched our 5-year strategy Columbus2020 with the The purpose of Columbus Academy is strategic elements Our People as one of four strategic focus areas. to attract, develop and retain the best Besides being a strategic focus, employee well-being and people in the industry by ensuring a high learning curve and professional development is the main focus of our CSR effort. development for our employees. Columbus Academy is our global virtual training setup which is based on our Our greatest asset is our employees, Performance Excellence Competence and Career Framework and therefore it is crucial for our Columbus’ goal is to support high (CCF) and a well-established consulting success that we attract and retain the performance across Columbus. Our skills curriculum developed in best employees in the industry. We strategic program Performance Columbus Denmark and US based on want Columbus to be a company smart Excellence support individuals and internationally acknowledge research. people join and where they stay longer. organizations in Columbus to All training is executed virtually A key focus is thus to offer challenging accomplish their goals. combining the newest most modern career opportunities, attractive working To support that goal Columbus is using technologies available. conditions and professional and Columbus’ Competence and Career personal development. Framework (CCF) across the company. Today, Columbus Academy primarily covers the Business Consultant role, In 2018, Columbus acquired three CCF is a system designed to ensure a offering seven modules building the companies thus increasing the number targeted and structured effort on our consulting soft skill required to be a of employees with 600 employees in employees’ competence and career world class consultant. 2018. At the end of December 2018, development. The framework includes Columbus had 2,051 employees. specific and well-defined targets on During 2018, we enrolled 400 how the employees can improve and employees globally in Columbus Columbus is a global company with develop their career to the next level. Academy. Furthermore, we launched subsidiaries in 17 countries with very CCF is running on a digital platform, an onboarding curriculum for all new different cultures, religions and named GROW. employees to complete. traditions. The employee handbooks in our subsidiaries treat local policies on All employees participate in working conditions. Despite that performance review each year to The goal is to have a curriculum for employees’ working conditions are identify and follow-up on specific, other key roles than Business already on a high level compared to individual targets related to the Consultants by 2020. local standards, we continuously work company’s overall targets. The on improving employee well-being and performance review enables Rewarding great work employee development aiming at employees to see and understand their Columbus want our people to share in common level across the company. personal contribution to the company’s our mutual success. Columbus provides overall performance. compensation and benefits that are With the Our People focus in market competitive. In 2018, our Columbus2020, we have initiated two Columbus Academy compensation included salaries, strategic programs that will further In a company like Columbus, benefits, health insurance, bonusses development Columbus’ employees; continuous learning is essential. We and stock awards. Performance Excellence and Columbus strive to become better, more Academy educated and understanding how we Employee recognition is vital to us and can excel in our industry and deliver we reward our people in other ways, excellent customer experience. too. Every year Columbus launch a global award program “Columbus 10 Columbus Awards”. The purpose is to recognize Talent development In Columbus we use the following and celebrate teams, who made a Columbus is committed to developing communication channels internally: special effort and delivered our next generation of talents. extraordinary performances, in Columbus Graduate Program and • Yammer, which is our social particular towards our customers. Young Professionals Program are talent digital forum for all employee The winners of Columbus Awards are programs for young professionals, to share knowledge and teams and Business Units in Columbus. either newly educated or talents with a experiences couple of years working experience. • Columbus Windrose, which is Employee Well-being our monthly global employee Employee well-being is a key focus in The programs are a one-year program newsletter Columbus, and each month employees which includes both theoretical and • Columbus Portal and Intranet, rate their job satisfaction through practical training in skills to excel as a which is our network to share Columbus Heartbeat, our global business consultant. employee relevant documents employee satisfaction survey. and tools Employee Dialogue • Office meetings and Round Heartbeat is a simple survey, where We strive to grow the dialogue with our Tables with Group and local employees are asked to answer one employees and dialogue between management question: On a scale from one to ten, employees in Columbus across borders the employee are asked to rate their in order to strengthen our community. We constantly strive to improve the job satisfaction. The aim is that everyone feels part of a employee dialogue and global team, and that everyone's voice communication. The purpose of Heartbeat is counts and is listened to. continuously to improve the employee Our People continues as key focus satisfaction in Columbus. The survey is The Columbus2020 strategy runs until not anonymous, and this makes us able the end of 2020, thus Our People will to follow the development in employee continue to be one of the main focus satisfaction on department, country areas in Columbus’ strategy as well as and on a global level in Columbus. in our CSR effort. Columbus 11 Code of Conduct Respecting human and labor rights is fundamental to our business. Columbus has established Code of Conduct, which is At the Annual General Meeting in April our general ethical guideline for business conduct to ensure 2018, a female Board member was that we in Columbus on a global level are dedicated to elected, thus the target to increase the promoting ethical business practices and protect Columbus proportion of women in the Board of Directors to 20% by the end of 2018 against corruption and other unethical business behavior, has been obtained. which we believe is incompatible with the operation of a At the end of 2017, the gender distribution at management level in Complies with the requirements Human Rights Columbus A/S constituted 14.8% Columbus complies with the All employees in Columbus have been women and 85.2% men. At the end of requirements of the Universal carefully selected on the basis of 2018, the percentage of women at Declaration of Human Rights and The professional competencies without management in Columbus A/S level had United Nations Convention against regard to religion, race, skin color, increased to 16.67%. Corruption. gender, age, disability or sexual or political orientation. We regard By the end of 2018, the proportion of Transparency and Creditability multiplicity as a strength and we will women at Group management level In Columbus, we are committed to not tolerate discrimination or declined from 27.7% to 25%. Although show complete openness towards harassment. Columbus does not report on progress customers, employees, shareholders, for the parent company, Columbus suppliers and other stakeholders. It is Diversity focuses on increasing the proportion of essential that their understanding of It is essential that all employees woman at management level in all our services and products is accurate, experience that Columbus has an open subsidiaries. updated and truthful. Therefore, there and unprejudiced culture where is no incongruence between what we everyone is able to make the best use For detailed information, please find communicate within the company and of his/her competencies, and that all the report on Gender distribution at what we do externally. regardless of gender have the same Columbus’ Investor site under possibilities for career development Governance and CSR. Anti-corruption and management positions. We will not tolerate corruption, money Corporate Governance laundering, bribery or other illegal or The Board of Directors has set the Columbus’ commitment to run a unethical business activity. Our following targets for gender sustainable business is firmly based on performance and competitiveness are distribution in Columbus: the company’s core values, our Code of strengthened solely through lawful • The proportion of women in the Conduct and our Corporate conduct. The Group’s anti-corruption Columbus Board of Directors to 20% Governance Guidelines. position has been clearly by the end of 2018. communicated to all subsidiaries. Columbus is committed to follow the Furthermore, we have implemented • The proportion of female managers Danish Recommendations for Columbus Authorization and Risk in Columbus A/S to obtain a Corporate Governance as implemented Management Rules (CARMR), which minimum of 20% by the end of 2020 on 1 June 2013 by NASDAQ encompass rules on the authorization (Columbus only reports on the Copenhagen in its Rules for Issuers of hierarchy and ensure the senior progress in the Danish Parent Shares. management’s involvement in major Company, Columbus A/S, according contracts and investments. to the Danish Business Authority’s Columbus has described our Code of guidelines). Conduct in the Annual Report for 2018. 12 Columbus Environmental and climate impact Columbus’ impact on environment is relatively small, however we continuously work on minimizing our impact on the environment. Columbus is committed to operate our Columbus has chosen to host our entire business in a way that respects the data center at GlobalConnect which is planet. using green cooling in their data centres. Green cooling systems are As Columbus’ “product“ consist of intelligent cooling systems that offer knowledge, software and services, as considerable operational savings. well as being mostly office-based, our During the winter months, they are business’ impact on environmental designed to take advantage of the impact is relatively small. Therefore, outdoor temperature to cool the data Columbus has not defined a specific centres, thus using minimum of energy. policy around environmental and climate impact. Being a global company, our business activities include travel, which do have However, we continuously optimize our an impact on environment. We aim to offices in order to be energy-efficient minimize unnecessary travel by plane and healthy working environments for and have installed video equipment in our employees. In Columbus’ the main offices and in general headquarters in Denmark, we have simplified the use of virtual meetings to automatic light and heat adjustment to facilitate virtual meeting, which also reduce energy use during off-peak improve the efficiency in our business. hours. Columbus will continue to focus on reducing the use of resources and the environmental impact of our business activities. Columbus 13 Social Commitment It is essential, that we are involved in community and charitable initiatives. We have decided to emphasize these initiatives in our CSR report. Charity in Columbus Below is a brief description of some of In Columbus, many of our subsidiaries our local CSR initiatives: are engaged in community and charity initiatives. We regard this as an • Columbus Estonia: Employee expression of commitment and team program to gather Christmas spirit and the initiatives are important presents for families with in two ways: They contribute to the children with disabilities employee well-being internally in • Columbus DK: Donation to Columbus, and they promote Columbus Doctors without Borders as a company, which engages in • Columbus UK: Donations via sustainable development in the employee and company communities, in which we operate. activities, donating to the NHS, Cancer Research and Team It is essential, that we are involved in Lewis Trust. community and charitable initiatives. We have decided to emphasize these initiatives in our CSR report. By emphasizing local community and charity initiatives in Columbus, we hope to generate similar initiatives. However, these must always be based solely on our employees’ voluntary commitment. 14 Columbus Corporate social responsibility in short Columbus’ Corporate Social Responsibility report is prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99 a. Transparency and credibility Human rights and antiLabour In Columbus we are committed to corruption Columbus’ key asset is our employees. being socially and environmentally Our success depends on our ability to Columbus’ goal is to influence that our responsible as well as comply with all attract and keep the best employees in employees and all our business relevant laws, standards and our industry. It is crucial that we not partners respect the Universal guidelines. We maintain a strong only comply with human rights, but on Declaration of Human Rights. corporate governance structure and top of that ensure attractive working communicate openly and conditions for our employees, in To ensure that we have set up a Code transparently about our CSR efforts, particular in regards to salary, of Conduct, to make our position clear which are primarily concentrated on wellbeing and competence to our stakeholders. Our Code of human rights, anti-corruption, labour, development. This applies to all our Conduct is our general ethical social commitment and responsible tax subsidiaries worldwide. We have guidelines for business conduct to practices in the countries we work in decided that our employee’s working ensure that we in Columbus on a as well as environment and climate. conditions are the core focus of our global level are dedicated to promote CSR effort. ethical business practices and protect Columbus against corruption and other unethical business behavior, which we believe is incompatible with the operation of a healthy business. Columbus 15 Social commitment Environment and climate Our CSR focus in 2018 Columbus is a global business that impact In 2018, we continued our focus on operates locally and in close proximity employee’s well-being with special Columbus is a people business. Being with our customers. We believe it is attention to ensuring a unified and mostly office-based means that our essential that we are involved in high-learning curve across our business’ impact on the environment is community and charitable activities organization. relatively small. However, Columbus and therefore we have decided to continuously optimizes our offices in emphasize these initiatives in our CSR Columbus Academy is our global order to be energy-efficient and report. Columbus is committed to virtual training setup which more than healthy working environments for our giving back to our communities. We 400 employees have been enrolled to employees. Furthermore, we aim to encourage and support our in 2018. minimize unnecessary travel by plane employees’ desire to use their time and instead promote and develop and talent for charity work. Many of Employee-well being is a central focus virtual meetings, which also improves Columbus’ subsidiaries engage in local in retaining our skilled people. In 2018, the efficiency in our business. charity. we implemented Heartbeat in our acquired companies while keeping the employee satisfaction at an average high score. 16 Columbus For more information about Columbus visit www.columbusglobal.com For more information on Columbus, visit www.columbusglobal.com
