2019 ANNUAL REPORT OUR YEAR Performance $2.82B in adjusted operating earnings $113.5B in revenue $5.19B in cash flow $2.81B invested in strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, and new and existing facilities People Food security and nutrition Farmer prosperity • Donated $18.8 million to hunger relief and • Trained more than 1.6 million farmers in nutrition education efforts globally sustainable agricultural practices, bringing our • Collaborated with the Global Foodbanking total since 2017 to more than 2.3 million as we Network to help support food banks as they work toward our goal of reaching 10 million provided more than 57 million meals to people farmers by 2030 in 20 countries Employee safety Human rights and inclusion • Reduced the number of serious injuries by • Published a new human rights commitment more than 60% since 2017, demonstrating the effectiveness of our companywide • Women comprised 29% of our leadership safety programs positions globally, as we aspire to achieve gender parity by 2030 as a member of the Enriching communities Paradigm for Parity® coalition • Provided $61.3 million in total charitable contributions across 56 countries • Invested $15.1 million in education programs worldwide Cargill employees by geography 36% 29% 22% 13% Asia North Latin Europe, Pacific America America Middle East and Africa Planet Land use Climate change • Enhanced our forest policy, strengthening • Managed a slight increase in our Scope 1 and our commitment to transform our agricultural Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions supply chains to be deforestation-free due to changes in our product mix and an through prioritized policies and time-bound increasing share of more energy intensive action plans products; continued to work toward our goal • Initiated a new partnership with The Soil of reducing emissions by 10% against a 2017 Health Institute to assess and promote the baseline by 2025 benefits of soil health management systems in Metric tons CO2e emitted across global operations North America FY2017 12.40M Water resources FY2018 12.53M • Conducted water risk assessments across our FY2019 12.58M operations and supply chains, which will inform our development of a new context-based 2025 goal water program • Reduced the CO2 per cargo-ton-mile of our time-chartered ocean shipping fleet by 12.1% against a 2016 baseline, with the target of reaching 15% by 2020 Products Traceability Transparency • Mapped the farms of 110,000 cocoa farmers • Introduced a South America Sustainable Soy globally, representing 48% of our direct Policy and corresponding action plan to protect supply chain forests and native vegetation in the region • Maintained 100% traceability to the mill in all • Sourced 48% of our cocoa bean volumes as key palm oil destination markets and continued third-party certified sustainable work toward a 100% traceable, transparent Training and technology and sustainable palm oil supply chain, with 92% of volumes traceable to the mill and 42% • Certified 3,019 smallholder farmers by the traceable to the plantation Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) in Indonesia • Provided one-on-one training to more than 121,000 cocoa farmers globally on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) Unless otherwise noted, all figures in this report are for Cargill's fiscal year 2019, ended May 31, 2019. LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS Every day, as a global team, we challenge ourselves to reach higher. Dave MacLennan Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Dines Chief Financial Officer There are no simple solutions when it comes to nourishing 7.5 billion people safely, responsibly and sustainably. To deliver for our customers and all those who depend on us, we are directing our insights, capabilities and resources toward answering some of the world’s biggest questions. Everyone at Cargill is relentlessly determined to transform what is possible in food, agriculture and nutrition. We are proud of how far we have come in 154 years, and we know together we can achieve much more. Strengthening our safety culture unacceptable outcome when our goal is zero harm. With a strong safety culture, we know Nothing matters more than the safety of our we can achieve our goal to send everyone people. Every year we challenge ourselves home safely each day. to drive measurable progress in achieving our safety goals. Guided by a set of leading indicators, we focused this year on the freFinancial performance quency at which potential risks are reported We delivered $2.82 billion in adjusted operand how well we protect against those risks. ating earnings in fiscal 2019, down 12% from As we identify conditions with the potential to last year’s top performance. Net earnings cause a serious injury or fatality, we are taking on a U.S. GAAP basis decreased 17% action to engineer out the risk, substitute a to $2.56 billion. Revenues dipped 1% to safer alternative or eliminate it altogether. This $113.5 billion. Cash flow from operations continuous process helped reduce fatalities in totaled $5.19 billion, of which $2.81 billion fiscal 2019 to one – good progress but still an was invested in strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, and new and existing facilities. • Earnings were led by our North American • In food ingredients, our edible oils business protein businesses. With steady domestic and outpaced the prior year. Though up slightly export demand, and plentiful cattle supplies, in Europe, cocoa and chocolate earnings in the beef business posted its third consecutive total were hurt by operating issues in North year of strong performance. Value-added America. Starch and sweetener results egg products also did very well. Conversely, decreased due to higher energy and raw matea mix of operating and market challenges rial costs in Europe and low ethanol prices in across regions decreased results in our global the U.S. poultry business. • Finally, our focus on efficiencies significantly • Providing solutions across multiple comreduced spending among corporate functions modities and countries, our metals, risk and drove other cost reductions. management and trade finance businesses successfully navigated volatile markets to Although short of our ambitions, this year’s each achieve higher earnings for the year. earnings were achieved in the midst of immense geopolitical uncertainty, especially • Grain origination and oilseed processing in related to global trade. We have long said North America and Europe posted improved there are no winners in a trade war, particularly results, but the market uncertainties and an escalating conflict between the U.S. and commodity flow distortions unleashed by China, the world’s two largest economies. To trade tensions negatively impacted agricultural that, add the ambiguities surrounding Brexit supply chain earnings globally. and the renegotiation of NAFTA, as well as conflicts in Central America and other regions. • Animal nutrition results trailed last year, as We also saw disruptions in the ocean shipthe aqua, compound feed, premix and feed ping industry and, as the year progressed, a additive businesses faced many regional chalshakeup in animal feed demand and global lenges, including the spread of African swine meat trade due to African swine fever. fever across China and nearby countries. Serving our customers globally Cargill sales and other revenues by destination Europe, North America Middle East 34% and Africa 24% Asia Pacific Latin America 29% 13% Exporter Importer Accelerating our growth In other parts of the world, we started construction on a pectin plant in Brazil, purchased By remaining agile and focused on what we a specialty chocolate maker in Belgium, can control, we succeeded in advancing our acquired poultry processors in Colombia strategy and helping our customers win with and Poland, invested in Israeli cultured meat consumers in local markets. To accelerate startup Aleph Farms, and opened a new proour growth, we are investing in markets where tein headquarters in the U.S. Additional acquiour expertise will help us create greater sitions and partnerships in our strategic focus value together with customers. This includes areas are detailed in the following pages. global protein, specialty ingredients, health and nutrition products for both people and animals, bioindustrials, and digital products Contributing to sustainable and services. global development We also are targeting the fast-growing econoCentral to our business strategy is our work mies of Asia Pacific with strategic investments, every day to deliver on our sustainability comwhere populations are growing and diets are mitments and help the world achieve the U.N. shifting. In China, we opened a new addition Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). With to our poultry facilities in Anhui province those overarching aims in mind, we continue that increases capacity for cooked chicken to support the U.N. Global Compact and are products. In Jiangxi province, we started committed to its principles on human rights, constructing a flagship facility for producing labor, anti-corruption and the environment. premixes and specialty feeds for young animal This year, we published a new human rights nutrition. And we announced we will expand commitment that respects and upholds the our corn facility in Jilin province and build an rights of workers, indigenous peoples and adjacent food safety and technology center communities everywhere we operate. It is in in collaboration with the local government. keeping with our Guiding Principles, one of which states that we treat people with dignity 80% Amount of operating cash and respect. Among other things, the commitflow we reinvest on average in ment outlines our promise to maintain a safe, our business to help nourish equitable and supportive work environment. the world $61.3M Total charitable Elsewhere in the region, we opened a food contributions and nutrition innovation center in Singapore. provided across We announced planned investments to grow 56 countries our animal nutrition and agricultural supply chain businesses in the Philippines, as well Empowering women is essential to strengthas to advance the seafood and poultry secening families and communities, as well as tors of Thailand. In Vietnam, we opened our nourishing a growing world. We work directly largest feed mill to date in the country. And in with thousands of women farmers across Pakistan, we declared our intention to invest continents to help them raise food more susacross several agricultural segments. tainably, reach broader markets and improve their standards of living. In our cocoa supply chain for example, we worked with CARE to establish 29 village savings and loan associations in Côte d’Ivoire and 108 women’s groups in Ghana. We also teamed up with the ONE plan for sustainable soy production in South Campaign to increase girls’ access to educaAmerica. To extend our impact, we committed tion and lift women and girls out of extreme $30 million to source and support innovative poverty by sharing the stories of those who ideas for preserving vital forest landscapes are fighting for change in their communities. and natural vegetation in the region while also It is part of a two-year, $2 million commitallowing for rural economic development. ment to help break down the barriers holding These steps are part of our commitment to them back. eliminate deforestation from our supply chains. Another crucial dimension of sustainable In all these areas, Cargill is uniquely positioned development is combating climate change, to connect people, planet and products to one of the most significant issues of our make solutions possible. Together with our time and one that directly impacts food and partners like The Nature Conservancy and agriculture. Last year, we announced we World Resources Institute, we are finding would cut greenhouse gas emissions from innovative ways to achieve our goals. And we our operations (also known as Scope 1 and continue to collaborate with diverse groups of Scope 2 emissions) by 10% by 2025, against stakeholders – farmer organizations, governa 2017 baseline. To help reach this goal, we ments, customers and others – to drive broadsigned a virtual power purchase agreement based progress across food and agriculture. with Geronimo Energy to buy 50 megawatts Together, we can increase access to safe, of renewable power from its new wind farm nutritious food while ending deforestation and in the U.S. state of South Dakota, while our advancing climate solutions. partner and strategic customer Walmart will buy the remaining energy from the installation. In closing The wind farm is expected to come on line at This year, we focused on making changes the end of 2019. This agreement complements to how we get our work done so that we our drive to increase the use of energy from can create more value together with our renewable sources, and it represents approxcustomers. We are accelerating these efforts imately one-tenth of our target for emissions in the new fiscal year. Yet some things will reductions from our global operations. not change: our values, our vision to be Protecting global forests is a vital element our customers’ most trusted partner, and for managing the impacts of climate change. our purpose to nourish the world in a safe, Nourishing the world in a sustainable way responsible and sustainable way. This is what means that forests and farming must coexist. continues to inspire us to reach higher. In addition to updating our global forest policy, we developed a new policy and action July 30, 2019 David MacLennan David Dines Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer A one-stop digital shop Until now, there has not been a platform where farmers can see all the information on markets, their crop contracts and their operations in one place. Today, we are partnering with Archer Daniels Midland Company and other crop buyers to help farmers by building that platform: GrainBridge. Launching this year, GrainBridge will give farmers powerful new insights so they can make more profitable decisions about when and how to market their crops. Advanced analytics will combine with the option to transact directly with companies on the platform, all underpinned by strong data security and privacy. Free for farmers to use, GrainBridge will provide them with vital details like break-even levels based 50% on crop conditions, margin price targets, of U.S. farmers current risk management positions and will have grown up in the more, all so they can successfully navigate digital age by 2020 an ever-changing marketplace. Source: USDA, Cargill analysis Partners for performance Eighteen years ago, Everton Gubert set out with a computer and a vision to help Brazilian farmers improve pig production. Today, his company Agriness provides a unique technology platform used by the majority of the country’s swine farmers to manage the performance of their sows and piglets. Cargill and Agriness are deploying this technology globally and adapting its data collection and analysis capabilities so it can assist poultry and dairy farmers, as well. 90% of Brazil’s pig farmers use Agriness technology to manage their animals’ well-being and performance Breakthroughs Open-source solutions for traceability to end hunger Cargill was recognized FORBES by Forbes for putting From micro-savings and credit platforms for small-scale farmers to technology that TOP blockchain, a distributed 50 makes it easier for mills to fortify flour with ledger technology, to nutrients, startups are innovating in diverse work in meaningful ways. ways to help people everywhere secure We began by connecting the food and other resources they need. U.S. consumers to the In May, eight teams representing these farmers who raised their Thanksgiving and other projects participated in a boot turkeys. Then we joined with Intel and camp run by the World Food Programme software engineer Bitwise IO to help Innovation Accelerator in Germany. Cargill build Hyperledger Grid, an open-source collaborated on the boot camp and menframework that all organizations can tored the teams. Now, up to three projects use to create supply chain solutions. will receive $100,000 each from Cargill in We will use Grid to improve food equity-free financing to help them sprint safety, traceability and trade efficiency. toward commercial readiness. A new path forward The Netherlands prides itself on pursuing sustainability across all aspects of life. So producing roadways and cycling paths in an environmentally friendly way makes sense. KWS-Infra is a subsidiary of the biggest paver of paths and roadways in the country. Thanks to Anova™ asphalt rejuvenator from Cargill, the company can produce asphalt that has a lower impact on the environment. It also is more durable and costs less. Asphalt starts to break down when the bitumen – which functions like glue – becomes brittle. But Anova changes that equation by adding bio-based rejuvenators to the bitumen in old asphalt that has been scraped up, so more of it can be recycled into the new mix. Asphalt with Anova also can be made at a lower temperature, reducing CO 2 emissions. With Anova asphalt up to 100% All this helps KWS-Infra meet the changing rejuvenator, recycled expectations of society. asphalt can be added into new asphalt at rates of Better risk management Sensational tastes About two-thirds of Cargill’s U.S. farmer customers sell their grain in months when prices are historically lower. One of America’s hottest food cities, Determined to help turn that statistic Portland, Oregon, was the backdrop for a around, we developed a grain markettasting tour led by Cargill for Sonic and its ing contract that harnesses the power Collaborative Chefs’ Council. Experiences of diversification to improve farmers’ like this showcase our comprehensive profitability over time, without adding approach to serving our protein customcomplexity. Called Portfolio Builder, ers. We offer innovations prompted by it combines four risk management consumer insights, accompanied by smart strategies into one that automatically risk management solutions and supply executes during key times throughout chain expertise. The tour led to dozens of the year. This approach would have potential new menu ideas to help Sonic exceeded 85% of the traditional sales grow its business, similar to the successful farmers made to Cargill during the past Signature Slingers that we co-developed five years. In just seven weeks, about last year. 4,000 farmers enrolled part of their crop. Supply chain solutions Fieldale Farms, a poultry company in the southeastern U.S., wanted to offer fresh chicken products raised entirely without GMOs for supermarket shoppers seeking that option. With most of the available feed ingredients derived from GMO corn and soy, building a high-volume, non-GMO supply chain back to the farmer would be daunting. That’s when Fieldale called Cargill. We redesigned several of our facilities to separate the non-GMO ingredients and signed up large numbers of farmers to grow the corn and soy required. These farmers are earning more for their specialty crops, while consumers are responding enthusiastically to Fieldale’s new chicken products. 100M people will benefit from Hatching Hope by 2030 The power of poultry Protein is an important part of the human diet. We believe it also can help transform the lives of small-scale farmers and their neighbors. This year, we teamed up with Heifer International to launch the Hatching Hope Global Initiative, using poultry production to open up new opportunities for women farmers and strengthen their communities. We will use practical solutions to produce dramatic results in nutrition, economic livelihoods and animal productivity. Starting with work in India, Mexico and Kenya, Hatching Hope will offer training based on Cargill’s animal nutrition expertise to help farmers expand and improve their poultry production in a sustainable way. Programming will ensure farmers are connected to the products, services and markets they need to grow their businesses. All of this will move farmers toward living incomes and improve productivity, nutrition and resilience, while also increasing the amount of protein available to their families and communities. Additionally, the program will raise awareness of the value of protein in the diet through Heifer’s proven community development model. Connecting more in cocoa The digital systems we are implementing in Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana allow cocoa farmers to get paid immediately, transparently and securely when they sell us their beans. Plus, farmers can save more easily, increasing their access to credit. The data also will help farmer organizations make better business decisions so they can do more for their members and communities. And bean traceability back to individual farms is helping provide our customers – and their consumers – with greater confidence that our cocoa and chocolate products are made with respect for people and the planet. In Ghana, all of the cocoa farmers we buy from directly use our first-mile traceability system. We aim to achieve the same in Côte d’Ivoire during 2020. New livelihoods through seaweed Holistic Red seaweed is used to make a texturizer community that is added to many food, beverage and personal care products. About 1 million development people worldwide make a living growing Four years ago, we set out with and harvesting it. To help them, we partTechnoServe in southern India to reach nered with Proforest to create the Red 5,000 small-scale farming households Seaweed Promise™. This program shares across 27 villages with the tools to best practices for production and harvest raise their resilience. This has included while also increasing the amount of susagronomic training to increase crop tainable red seaweed – and productivity, homestead gardens for texturizers – available. better nutrition, water and sanitation It provides assurance upgrades at local schools, and entreto consumers and preneurial resources for women and improves the lives young people. Having reached its of seaweed targets, the project has connected producers. these villages to greater opportunities and a path forward. About Cargill Cargill’s 160,000 employees across 70 countries work relentlessly to achieve our purpose of nourishing the world in a safe, responsible and sustainable way. Every day, we connect farmers with markets, customers with ingredients, and people and animals with the food they need to thrive. We combine 154 years of experience with new technologies and insights to serve as a trusted partner for food, agriculture, financial and industrial customers in more than 125 countries. Side by side, we are building a stronger, sustainable future for agriculture. For more information, visit Cargill.com and our News Center. www.cargill.com P.O. Box 9300 © 2019 Cargill, Minneapolis, MN Incorporated 55440
