Table of Contents Brief description of nature of business 3 Statement of support 3 Bording’s view on Corporate Social Responsibility 4 The ethical guidelines of Bording 4 Global Compact 5 Principle one 5 Principle two 6 Global Compact Labour Rights 7 Principle three 7 Principle four 8 Principle five 9 Principle six 10 Global Compact Environment 11 Principle seven 11 Principle eight 12 Principle nine 14 Global Compact Anti-corruption 15 Principle ten 15 Future Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives in the Bording Group 16 Bording’s next Communication on Progress 16 Feel free to contact us 16 COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 2 Brief description of nature of business Bording Group The Bording Group was established in 1792 as a Danish printing company but has evolved into a Scandinavian business committed to marketing communication services. The transformation from historically being a printing house, to becoming a diverse company is the result of a clear strategy in order to adapt to technological developments and constantly changing customer needs, but also to stay innovative on a fast developing global market. Today we offer our customers a broad range of services within marketing communication. Statement of support At Bording Group, we take social responsibility seriously. Both the social responsibility for our employees and the impact we have on the environment and the local community. Bording Group is more than 200 years old which has led to a culture of constant development and improvements. This is something we are proud of, and every year we strive to provide positive changes through sustainability management. Bording Group has been part of the UN Global Compact since 2009. In the year to come, we will continue following the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. At Bording Group, we want to be known as a reliable partner who respects the Global Compact. This does not only apply to Bording Group and its associated companies, but also to suppliers and business partners. As a Scandinavian business with several suppliers both within and outside Europe, it is important for us to make sure that suppliers live up to certain standards. We will therefore continue to encourage that suppliers and business partners live up to our ethical guidelines presented in the Code of Conduct which can be found on our website through this link: https://cdn.bordinggroup.com/media/1161/code-og-conduct_bg.pdf Yours faithfully Hans Therp Chief Executive Officer COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 3 Bording Groups’s view on Corporate Social Responsibility Bording Group believes that a part of being responsible is making a difference both locally and globally, whenever we have the opportunity to do so. Being responsible also means that we are responsible not only for our employees, but also for our suppliers, our customers, people around us as well as the environment. Bording Group and the principles With a history as a Danish printing company, Bording Group has focused on environmental concerns and opportunities for a long time. We do our best to create and uphold working procedures that protect the environment. Our longtime focus on environmental issues has created a unique base for suggesting, and to some extent demanding, improvements from our suppliers. The Bording Group understands that we cannot change the whole world, but by utilizing the Global Compact as a strategic tool for our work with social, ethical and environmental responsibility and values, we believe that we have taken an important step in the right direction. We continue to see CSR and sustainability as an important opportunity to work constructively with the challenges that we come across in our business operations. This adds value to our employees, the society, the environment and our business. The strength of the UN’s Global Compact is that the 10 principles are built upon internationally recognized conventions. The principles help us match expectations of good behavior and ethics when we do business across national and cultural borders. Furthermore, it gives us a strategic tool when it comes to sending our customers a clear signal on corporate responsibility and human rights. To a division such as Bording Vista, which is based in Dhaka, Bangladesh, where many employees work under less fortunate conditions, we believe that it is important to send this clear signal in order to encourage other companies to treat the local employees with dignity and respect as well. For further information about UN’s work with Global Compact please visit: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ The ethical guidelines of Bording As a Scandinavian Group we see globalisation as an opportunity to expand our market and to participate in international projects. However, associated with these opportunities are the risks and challenges of doing business across different legal and cultural traditions. Bording Group has acknowledged these risks and challenges, which have led to a process of making our own set of ethical guidelines. These have become an integrated part of our daily operations. Bording Groups’s Code of Conduct (our ethical guidelines) is meant as a guide to our management team, employees, customers, suppliers and other cooperative partners about behavior and values in the Bording Group. Please visit our webpage, https://bordinggroup.com/about-us to read our Code of Conduct. In Bording Group we strive to achieve the goal of always following the highest ethical standards and reducing the environmental impact our business may have on its surroundings as much as possible. At the same time, we assign a high importance to responsibility, trustworthiness and honesty. COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 4 Global Compact Principle one Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Risk assessment: As we predominantly operate and employ people in Scandinavia, the risk of violation of human rights is considered low. At our office in Bangladesh, we make sure to have well defined procedures and policies as described below. Focus: ● We recognize the Rights of the Child and the child’s right to life, survival and development, and respect for the views of the child ● We respect the rights of our employees and support all of the international conventions ● We believe that all of our employees have the right to a safe and healthy workplace Systems: ● Bording Group provides teaching material with Hans Christian Andersen fairytales directly from our website to children in poverty all over the world ● Bording Group has made a set of ethical guidelines ● Bording Group provides all of its employees with contracts in order to ensure their rights ● Bording Vista in Bangladesh has a specific personnel policy ● Bording A/S and KLS have joined Grafisk CSR Kodeks, which is a Danish version of the 10 principles found in the UN Global Compact adapted to the graphical production industry Activities and results: ● At Bording Vista in Bangladesh, all employees have well defined contracts of employment, job description, job specifications, salary contracts, and an employee policy manual ● We have APV meetings and a plan of action. We carry out continuous reviews of conditions at our offices in Denmark, Sweden and Norway in order to ensure the rights and wellbeing of our employees ● Bording Danmark A/S visits the manufacturing facilities a few times a year to check up on the working conditions and job satisfaction among employees ● Bording Cognito sets requirements for ethics and corporate social responsibility for the suppliers. Regular check and follow-up are performed at the suppliers and their subcontractors where full openness is also required COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 5 Principle two Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Risk assessment: As we predominantly operate and engage with 3rd parties in Scandinavia, the risk of Bording being complicit in any human right abuse is considered low. Focus: ● We do our utmost to ensure that we do not enter into business with partners who breach the human rights Systems: ● Bording Group has made a set of ethical guidelines ● Bording Group has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh Activities: ● We do our best to ensure that our clients and distributors respect the human rights by continuously assessing our partnerships ● We strive to set a good example for our partners by acting responsibly ● Bording Cognito expects full transparency when working with suppliers and sub-suppliers. Furthermore, they do random checks among their sub-suppliers to make sure that the working conditions meet the requirements. For this reason, all suppliers are bound to provide names and contact information on all sub-suppliers. Results: ● There have been no issues in this area during 2018 COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 6 Global Compact Labour Rights Principle three Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Risk assessment: As we predominantly operate and employ people in Scandinavia, the risk of violation of freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining is considered low. At our office in Bangladesh, we make sure to have well defined procedures and policies to mitigate risks. Focus: ● We believe in the right to voluntary unionism and collective negotiations and do not enter into business with cooperative partners who do not accept these rights Systems: ● Bording Group has made a set of ethical guidelines ● Bording Group has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh Activities: ● Bording Group employees have the freedom to choose to be members of the union they want ● The political views and associations are diverse, and we do not try to influence their choice of affiliation Results: ● There have been no issues in this area during 2018 COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 7 Principle four Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Risk assessment: As we predominantly operate and employ people in Scandinavia, the risk of all forms of forced and compulsory labour is considered low. At our office in Bangladesh, we make sure to have well defined procedures and policies to mitigate risks. Focus: ● We do not tolerate oppression of minorities or any other human beings inside or outside the company Systems: ● Bording Group has made a set of ethical guidelines ● Bording Group has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh Activities: ● This year there has not been the need for activities Results: ● There have been no issues in this area during 2018 COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 8 Principle five Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Risk assessment: As we predominantly operate and employ people in Scandinavia, the risk of child labour is considered low. At our office in Bangladesh, we make sure to have well defined procedures and policies to mitigate risks. Focus: ● We respect the UN’s Right of the child ● We do not tolerate or accept child labour ● We do not cooperate with organizations that use child labour Systems: ● Bording Group has made a set of ethical guidelines ● Bording Group has a specific personnel policy in Bangladesh Activities: ● In 2017, Bording Group started to support PLAN Denmark ● All companies within the Bording Group collaborate with Goodwings, which is a CSR fundraising platform ● Bording Danmark A/S actively supports Gentofte Kommune as Unicefby2018 and their cause for making a better life for children in Greenland Results: ● In 2018, we donated through our Goodwings partnership to a certain PLAN Danmark project insuring girls in Kenya can go to school COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 9 Principle six Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Risk assessment: As we predominantly operate and employ people in Scandinavia, the risk of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation is considered low. At our office in Bangladesh, we make sure to have well defined procedures and policies to mitigate these risks. Focus: ● We see diversity as a resource and do not accept oppression of minorities Systems: ● We always encourage everybody to apply for our advertised vacant positions, no matter their sex, religion, disabilities, political views or ethnicity. We do not differentiate wages based in the before mentioned things. Activities: ● At Bording Vista in Bangladesh, the personnel handbook and the daily management place emphasis on the soft values such as diversity and recognition. Furthermore, Bording Vista actively encourage female workers to apply for positions ● In all divisions each employee is respected regardless of position, sex, disabilities, political views and religion ● Our management team is very focused on the well-being of all our employees by respecting and giving equal possibilities for developing talents ● Discrimination and bullying is not accepted inside or outside the company ● Bording Cognito strives to achieve gender equality in regards to work assignments and salary Results: ● Student employees get the opportunity to take extra courses in order to improve their skills and capabilities ● The combination of the genders is currently optimized to 7 women and 9 men in Bording Cognito COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 10 Global Compact Environment Principle seven Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Risk assessment: Our businesses consume energy, requires transport and use other natural resources, and as such there is a risk that we impact environmental challenges. Focus: ● The transformation and change of our core business have resulted in an environmental policy where our focus remains on reducing the impact we have on the environment Systems: ● We ensure the implementation of Bording Group’s environmental policy through structured work with recognized environmental standards, management systems and certifications. This means that whenever it is relevant, the Bording Group companies are certified with ISO 14001, environmental management system, has a Nordic Eco Label, Svanemærket license, and/or FSC license ● We encourage our suppliers to work methodically with environmental issues. ● At least once a year, all major suppliers are audited ● We encourage partners and customers to support CSR. We have a policy for economically supporting partner and customer CSR initiatives Activities: ● We focus on continuously reviewing our companies’ environmental policies and plans ● We make sure to comply with the standards of relevant licenses in order to take responsibility for the environment. ● We focus on being transparent to our clients and other stakeholders. ● Bording Link is certified to DS/OHSAS 18001. Occupational Health Assessment (OHSAS) is an ongoing requirement for a work environment management system to enable an organization to manage its occupational health risks and improve its work environment performance Results: ● Through focused efforts we have achieved to deliver and certify printed matter, by showing transparency and responsible consideration for the environment COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 11 Principle eight Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Risk assessment: Our businesses consume energy, requires transport and use other natural resources, and as such there is a risk that we impact environmental challenges. Focus: ● Bording Group places an immense focus on reducing the overall energy consumption in the different companies ● The Bording Group’s strategy is to participate in the consolidation of the graphic industry ● Bording is focusing on energy savings in connection to structural changes related to overcapacity in the graphic industry ● Bording strives to reduce pollution and act in an environmentally responsible way Systems: ● The environmental initiatives in the Bording Group are taken individually by each of our companies or by F. E. Bording Activities: ● Bording Cognito has switched to e-invoices and has been registered with EHF to reduce print outs ● Bording Vista has started a process to use dual monitor in order to use less printed paper ● We participated in the Danish initiative “We bike to work” ● We supported “Danmarks indsamlingen” in 2018 a national joint funds raiser for various CSR initiatives ● KLS PurePrint is Denmark’s most environmentally-friendly graphic company and has through its production methods of Pureprint® taken a huge responsibility as a first-mover in the business when it comes to promote sustainable production ● Most of our offices and buildings have motion sensors connected to the lightning to save electricity. We are also currently evaluating a shift from traditional fluorescent lamps to led. ● Nordlid only uses recycle paper for printing and copying, and always prints on both sides of the paper ● At Bording Mailit, all paper and sales material are environmentally friendly. ● Also Mailit has entered into agreement with relevant companies around recycle waste, also used materials from printers ● Nordlid employees are allowed to bring home leftover from the lunch buffet for minimize food waste ● Nordlid use only water carafes instead of plastic bottles. Results: ● More and more invoices are sent electronically which means less paper use COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 12 ● KLS PurePrint has implemented Pureprint®, which is a cradle-to-cradle print production that ensures that resources are recycled and used in a sustainable way by having promoted the concept KLS Pureprint In 2017, 46 percent of the production was cradle-2-cradle certified. This is expected to be 60-70 percent in 2019. ● In 2018 at the recertification process of Cradle to Cradle KLS PurePrint reached Platinum in the area “Renewable energy and carbon emission”. Amongst all more than 600 Cradle to Cradle certified companies in the world across all industries only two other companies have reached the highest level. ● The motion sensors controlling the lightning make sure that the lights turn off when people leave the room thus saving energy ● By shifting to led tubes we will save electricity ● The heating optimization at Bording Link, combined with the lightning changed to LED, have made an energy saving of around 8-10 percent COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 13 Principle nine Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Focus: ● We are committed to developing products within our product portfolio, which are environmental friendly/eco-friendly Systems: ● Here the focus is especially on the fact that the necessary knowledge is present, leaving the Bording Group to emphasize on where to contribute the most and best ● In this context we have formed an environment network across the group companies making sure that we provide knowledge about environmental considerations and make these available to each other Activities: ● Our associated company KLS PurePrint has a cradle-to-cradle production service through Pureprint®, which ensures that the production is sustainable, and resources aren’t wasted ● In 2017, Bording Instore insourced production of printing plates in order to ensure printing plate production with zero chemicals Results: ● On the product side, KLS PurePrint has an environmentally friendly print production, which results in less emissions of CO2 gas, recycling and reuse of production waste. For further information please visit: http://kls.dk/saa-er-kls-i-gang-med-cradle2cradle-produktion/ COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 14 Global Compact Anti-corruption Principle ten Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Risk assessment: As we predominantly operate and employ people in Scandinavia, the risk of child labour is considered low. At our office in Bangladesh, we make sure to have well defined procedures and policies to mitigate risks. Focus: ● Our mission in Bording has the clear goal that we must follow the highest ethical standards. Therefore, we put integrity and honesty above short-term profits ● In Bording we strive to comply with good ethical behavior and avoid corruption at all costs ● As an honest company we strive to be transparent for our employees and stakeholders in order to avoid corruption Systems: ● Our ethical guidelines about out behavior and values within the Bording Group serve as a behavioral guideline to our management team, employees, customers, suppliers, and other business partners. The ethical guideline can be found on https://bordinggroup.com/about-us Activities: ● If anyone inor outside the group hears, sees or meets corruption in any form, we encourage him/her to get in contact with us by sending an anonymous email to info@bordinggroup.com with the topic “Whistleblower” ● We strive to be transparent through sharing information with our employees, shareholders and stakeholders every year Results: ● None of our business activities have put us in a dilemma in relation to corruption ● Through our new whistleblower scheme we have made it possible for employees and stakeholders to report bribery and extortion anonymously ● Through our quarterly sharing of information with employees and stakeholders we ensure transparency and that employees understand our corporate values COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 15 Future Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives The Bording Group believes in the necessity of corporations acting responsibly in order to add value to the local and global societies. This is done by taking care of the earth and its inhabitants, while implementing CSR as an internal value enhancer within the company that can help create a sustainable culture, where employees feel proud of being a part of a company that respects human rights, labour rights, the environment, and doesn’t tolerate corruption. We therefore see CSR and sustainability as an integrated part of our daily operations and we continuously evaluate on our initiatives and performance in contributing value to the society, in order to improve. Therefore, we expect the amount of CSR related activities for 2019 to be at least, at the same level as in 2018. Economic supported in 2018: ● Bording Link: Kræftens bekæmpelse, Knæk Cancer, Lejrsponsorat Børnelejeren ● Bording Mailit: UNICEF ● Bording AB helps a Swedish family financially, who ideally runs a school in Kenya. The school is located in Nairobi's slum and offers extremely vulnerable children's schooling. ● Bording A/S supports NGOs and unions like: Team Rynkeby a cycling team raising funds for children with cancers Danish Muscular Dystrophy Foundation UNICEF City 2018 (Gentofte Municipality) In 2018 Bording Danmark supported four children in a PLAN program Local staff initiatives/offerings: ● Bording Cognito offers all employees subsidiary training ● Bording AB offers all employees wellness compensation ● Also Bording AB has given sponsorship to their own staff when they participate in arranged race competitions that donate money into good causes like environmental optimization and or supporting vulnerable people ● Bording AB works closely together with Social Insurance org. in the quest of helping or receiving people who need work experience, ending up with giving them a job assessment, which supports them in their further job hunting. ● Bording A/S encourages to a healthy and active lifestyle among employees by arranging health club, running club and weight loss club for employees both during and outside working hours Bording’s next Communication on Progress Our next Communication on Progress will be uploaded on the UN’s digital platform latest by May, 2020 Feel free to contact us If you have any questions to our work with CSR, this progress report or anything relating, please do not hesitate to contact us: info@bordinggroup.com COMPANY DETAILS Bording Group CVR. Nr.: 16229414 Ejby Industrivej 91 Established: April 12, 1918 2600 Glostrup Domicile: Ejby, Glostrup Phone: +45 7011 5011 Member of Global Compact since: www.bordinggroup.com September 9, 2009 info@bordinggroup.com 16
