MESA MAKINA DOKUM A.Ş COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT MESA MAKINA A.S. BRIEF Founded in 1979, Mesa Makina looks back on a long tradition of casting and today has become one of the prominent OEM part producer in providing machined castings. Mesa Makina has the vision of being a regional leader by making a difference in its field. Behind the success of Mesa Makina there lies a customer-focused production that exactly meets customer demands with an expert staff. Our business activities are beyond the production of high-quality and hard-to-do castings. Our Product R&D team provides comprehensive support to his customers from production development stage. Being a member of UN Global Compact, Mesa Makina seeks to maximize his market recognition not only in Turkey but also in the regional and global context. More than 120 skilled workers at Mesa Makina give detailed attention to their particular jobs as manual working man or expert technicians and engineers. Having the IATF 16949 quality management system, the range of casted materials offered by Mesa Makina varies from grey cast iron and spheroidal cast iron to SiMo and high nickel alloys and wear resistant high-chromium white iron. Machining is offered on all parts, and inspection and testing available includes Ultrasonic, X-ray, Magnetic particle inspection and others. With a production capacity of 12.000 tons of castings, we produce unit weigths of 3 – 60 kg of machine moulded castings with high-pressure vacuum technology. In addition to plant and machinery investments, Mesa Makina keeps his investments on quality and training of employees which he gives great importance. The IVECO (OTOYOL) quality award received in 2003 and ISO TS 16949 certificate gained in 2008 demonstrates the emphasis given on quality. Started production to OEM parts in 1984 with exhaust manifolds, today Mesa Makina enjoys exporting to 80 % of its production to automotive, agricultural machinery, construction machinery, defense, mining and energy industries in 3 continents, Europe is being in the first place. Mesa Makina’s aim for recognition is not only within the borders of Turkey, upgrades on a global scale export to 5 continents. 1 6500 m2 of machining indoor area investment has been completed in 2018. We became 783. R & D center in Turkey. In 2018, EFQM received the excellence award. EFQM has improved from 3 stars to 4 stars. 2 Employee manual ethical behavior training was provided. A notification line was established within the scope of the obligation of notification of violations. Mesa is a leading organization with environmental awareness. In 2018, the Company received the ISO 14001: 2015 environmental management system certification. OUR MISSION We are here to be a solution partner to your dreams by shaping the metal and directing the fluids. OUR VISSION As a strong and reliable family with its employees, it is to be a leading global company that renews itself with original projects and produces high added value. OUR VALUES Honest and Trusty Dynamic,Flexible and Agile Complementary Teamwork Creative and Innovative Effective and Efficient Internal and External Customer Satisfaction and Addiction Community-sensitive and Enviromentally OUR STRENGTS To produce OEM parts 37 years experience in sector Having IATF 16949 Give importance to education Flexible production capability Having R & D center Variety of customer portfolio. Strong image and organization awareness., Netsis EFQM 4 star A Class Supplier Export 80% of Our Products to the EU Countries 3 Co-design capability 'Market-oriented' global perspective ISO 18001:2008 ISO 14001:2018 MANAGING DIRECTOR MESSAGE We are very happy to be a member of Global Compact. Our company values and our vission are also support Global Compact Principles. We signed the UN Global Compact in June 2010 which is a strategic policy initiative for business that are committed to aligning their operations. Our company commit that we will carry out on implementing the ten principles of Global Compact and undertake a make clear statement of this commitment. Seyma AYHAN Managing Director 1. HUMAN RIGHTS and WORK STANDARTS 1.1 General Our organization protection of human rights policy and practice in this area performance supported importance. In the our business connection there is no difference between language, gender, political opinion, philosophical belief, religion and sect. If there is no obligation according to biological cause or works risk, workers safety, legal obligation, there is no application about making work contract, ending work about gender or pregnancy. Worker takes similar salary for same or similar works, there is no big differences between salaries for similar works. Value chain, which created by our organization, in ahead our workers and stakeholders you can see applications which are respectful sensitive to humans rights, for improving this senses we always work. According to this mentality we do not staff child worker, we do not staff under compulsion. For our organization our workers safety and health is so necessary. For this subject always we control and improve status. For this mentality we use occupational safety and health committee. This committee makes periodic meetings for seeing and following processes improving, and planning safety and health improvements. For prevent industrial accident committee makes risk appraisal, and take preventive measures according to this risk appraisal, technology and work applications are seeing and our workers takes trainings. In 2018 100 workers had 20 hours occupational safety and health training. We make table of statistic for industrial accident, and we compare with previous years. In starting to our organization we want health knowledge and report, which include that person is useful for this job according to health details, this report legal obligation. Pieces SHE Committee Pieces 1 Number of Employees Committee 10 SHE Team Pieces 9 Number of Employees SHE Team 40 4 We provide service for medical examination with our organizations doctor. In the same time we gave trainings to our workers about occupational and social, clash exposure negative influence, hygiene and occupational illness. We make periodical examinations and carrier examination test. For white collar offered the opportunity for group private health insurance. In 2018 periodic examination rate is %100. All workers had periodic examinations for two times in a year. In 2014 May Mesa started to works for OHSAS 18001, and in 2015 june we completed. We have OHSAS 18001 certificate. In 2018 for occupational safety and health we paid 138.500 TL. Mesa sees his workers as worthy capital, the factor, which bringing goals, is piecing differences of his workers perspective, experiences, effort. According to this mentality Mesa A.Ş. Goal is taking persons which is brilliant and competency. In 2018; Contract of employment distribution= Time limit %0, Indefinite period %100 Work type worker distribution= Full time %100 , Part time %0 Recruitment type worker distribution = White collar %20, Blue Collar %80 According to Gender of workers distribution; Women %6 Men %94 Continuous improvement is one of the most important factors are the employees feedback. Employee feedbacks are important guiding our target of continuous improvement in business processes as we see. Employees' opinions, ideas and our organization for receipt of requests for proposal system are effectively operated. Suggestions which our employee gave us evaluate according to procedures. Practicable suggestions are rewarding according to procedure criteria. In 2018 our employees gave 13 pieces suggestions. 1.2 Corporate Values Award: In terms of the interpretation of corporate values through applications and the realization of working environments in line with ethical values, corporate value awards are distributed in our company . Our corporate values are defined in parallel to 10 principles of global compact. 29 employees have been rewarded in 2018, in context of the values awards. 5 6 2018 Leadership, company representatives and internal auditor awards were found. Corporate Representation Award: Ali Osman Öztürk Leadership Award: Mehdi Alsaç Internal Auditor Awards: Burak Gündüz, Öztürk Sezgin, Mehdi Alsaç 2. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2.1 Forestation Through by Environmental protection organizations, we planted 100 cedar trees to Konya district's Ereğli. We were in a tree planting ceremony in Konya / Sarayönü for our nature conservation and greening policy. 2.2 Subscriptions Automotive Parts Manufacturers' Association (TAYSAD), Quality Association (KALDER), Turkey Personnel Management Association (PERYÖN), Turkey Casting Industry Association (TÜDÖKSAD), Konya Automotive Parts Industry Cluster (Konya CLUSTER), Konya Chamber of Industry (KSO), Konya Chamber of Commerce (KTO), the Central Anatolian Exporters Union (OAIB), Railway Industry Association (RAYDER), Easters Anatolian Exporters Association (DAİB), Anatolian Rail Transportation Cluster (ARUS) 2.3 Sponsorship 2.3.1 Peace Academy We sponsor the 2016 Peace Academy project, especially of families in rural areas (features women's and mothers') education of children and awareness creation on adolescent psychology, forgotten reminded again of our obsolescent value is intended to protect our national and spiritual values. In this context, making regular seminars, awareness raising, protective and preventive activities are carried out. 7 Konya Governorship Project, Academy for Peace Commission, Provincial Directorate of Family and Social Policies is working with Meram Municipality. 2.4. Conflict Minerals Conflict of minerals is one of the most problem of the companies. Tin, volfram, Tantalum, Gold such elements are produced in small and illegal mines of the Democratic Republic of Congo where the civil war is still continuing also in this places there is still child and forced labored. This is also an outcome of the civil war which ongoing 10 year civil war. After the shaping of the Dodd Frank code section 1502 in 2012 the conflict of minerals become importance. After shaping of this code the companies had to declare from where they did buy these materials. Are they using these materials from the Democratic Congo Republic or even from the neighbor countries? After this the companies had to declare from where they bought these materials while this is contributing for human rights violations. According to these new regulations Mesa Makina is working in cooperation with its suppliers that they are not using 3TG materials. First fully starting from our raw material suppliers and our sub suppliers we are taking and using Conflict of Minerals Reporting Templates (CMRT). 2.5. Prohibited Materials We are giving importance to the human health and environment according to that we are every time the materials which are produced in accordance to the prohibited materials list. We are also taking and giving declarations that we are not using and buying prohibited materials. 2.6. International Women's Day Celebration International women's day was celebrated with a dinner given to our female employees. 3. ENVIRONMENT While the responding growing needs and other side production processes, using product and services effects to environment must be decreased, todays primary liability of business world is solving environmental problems. Our organization keeps under control effects of environmental while we are manufacturing, and we make some improvements for decreasing of effects to environment. For achieving to our environment goal we allocate resources. 8 Waste management, waste disposal companies under the contaminated package, oil and coolant fluid, chips , carton, paper end electronic waste are given in waste recycling. The EIA report was taken in 2013. Cost (TL) In 2018 environmental protection cost 45000 In 2018 Cost of waste disposal 65000 Mesa is a leading organization with environmental awareness. In 2018, the Company received the ISO 14001: 2015 environmental management system certification. 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Rights and obligations of our employees publish a regulation. In this regulation; occupational safety and health, rules of attitude, confidentially, working times, overtime, national holiday, annual leave, ingress and egress to the workplace, cleaning work, work place general demeanor, performance consideration, repeal, social help subjects are explaining. 9
