MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Contents MTN’s digital connections transform how people live, work and play º About this report 1 Transforming economies and º Environmental responsibility 37 Who we are 2 º societies 13 Energy and climate 40 º Our sustainability approach 3 Digital access and inclusion 16 Environmental resources 45 Our vision, framework and focus areas 4 Mobile financial services 19 º Our workplace 47 Our strategy, stakeholders and governance 5 Corporate social investment 24 Our workplace 48 Materiality process 6 º Ethics and human rights 27 º Annual sustainability statements 53 Supporting the UN SDGs and UN Global Compact 8 Ethics 30 Sustainability performance in numbers 54 Group president and CEO on Digital human rights 33 UN Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) Standards 58 º sustainability 9 º About this report º º º º º º º About this report This sustainability report covers the activities of the MTN Group for This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. We the period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018, and complements the have also included the UNGC reporting requirements within this sustainability report in an integrated manner. We have further indicated how our activities support UN SDG goals integrated report for the same period. The report aims to provide and targets. a balanced, accurate and accessible overview of our strategy and performance relating to socio-economic, labour and environmental Data collection issues, and ethics and human rights. This year, the report aims to Reports are compiled using information sourced from a variety of internal reporting, data provide a more strategic view of our sustainability efforts and more management and storage systems. Oracle information systems, network management comprehensive information at a group level. systems, social and ethics, risk and other management and committee reports, and the results of annual surveys are some of our key sources of data. Secondary data is obtained from external sources including industry specific and sustainable business research Scope and boundaries reports, benchmark surveys and assessments of MTN’s sustainability performance Included in this report: This report covers operations in Afghanistan, Benin, Cameroon, undertaken by external organisations. Congo-Brazzaville, Cyprus (ending August 2018 following conclusion of the sale of MTN Cyprus), eSwatini, Guinea-Bissau, Guinea-Conakry, Ghana, Iran, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Sudan, South Sudan, Syria, Uganda, Yemen and Zambia, Exchange rate as well as MTN Enterprise operations in Kenya and Namibia. All financial expenditures are reported in South African rand (ZAR), using the average exchange rate across January to December 2018 of ZAR13,21 to US$1 (2017: ZAR13,35 Excluded from this report: Mascom Botswana is excluded from sustainability and Carbon to US$1). Disclosure Project (CDP) reporting on the basis of no control postings. For CDP reporting, MTN Yemen and MTN Syria have been excluded due to energy and greenhouse gas data Combined assurance collection challenges associated with network management in the context of the broader The group’s independent assurance report to the directors of MTN Group Limited macro-political situation. Some MTN Group head office services are undertaken in Dubai is available on our website . (United Arab Emirates) in leased office premises, and are deemed immaterial for CDP reporting. Directors’ responsibility The MTN Group board has overall accountability for sustainability. Responsibility for Sustainability reporting standards and guidelines oversight of MTN’s sustainability activities is delegated to the social and ethics committee. Disclosures in this report are primarily guided by the United Nations Global Reporting The social and ethics committee has read this report and considered the integrity and Initiative (GRI) Standards, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), United Nations completeness of the material aspects and information contained within it. Accordingly, the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the King Code of Governance committee is satisfied that the MTN Group sustainability, UN Global Reporting Initiative Principles (King IV™*) and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). (GRI) Standards and UN Global Compact Communication of Disclosure reports for 2018 are a fair representation of the material matters and provide a balanced view of MTN’s responsible business strategy and performance. IR Integrated report AFS Annual financial statements SE Social and ethics report LA Limited assurance obtained Online reports GR Governance report TAX Tax report For more information/web links *Copyright and trademarks are owned by the Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC and all of the rights are reserved. MTN Group Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 1 º About this report º º º º º º º Who we are MTN is an emerging market Our market segments mobile operator with a clear vision to lead the delivery of a bold, new digital world to our 233 million customers across 21 operations. We are inspired by our belief that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life. Consumer Enterprise Wholesale Ours is one of the most admired brands in Africa and is also among the most valuable African brands. MTN is one of the largest companies listed on the JSE in Johannesburg, MTN is transforming from a telecoms MTN is already the premiere voice MTN owns and runs the largest and had a market capitalisation of R168 billion at the end of provider into a digital services and data (fixed and mobile) fixed and mobile infrastructure 2018. provider which means we deliver not connectivity provider to small and network in our region. To provide a only connectivity (voice, data and large enterprises. We use this base high quality service to customers We were established in South Africa at the dawn of SMS) but also the digital services to offer enterprises a richer set of and to take advantage of our scale, democracy in 1994 as a leader in transformation. Since customers use over that connectivity. services including cloud and we have established a company We offer a full suite of mobile fintech unified communications. Security called MTN GlobalConnect to then, we have grown by investing in sophisticated products including mobile wallets, underpins all of this. We are also a run and procure the infrastructure communications infrastructure and by harnessing the payments, micro-loans and microleader in the Internet of Things (IoT). which is shared between our talent of our diverse team of people across Africa and the insurance that are universally We provide reliable, secure IoT markets and to route the traffic Middle East. accessible through our app or USSD. connectivity and have invested in between our markets. The creation We also offer mobile commerce state-of-the-art IoT platforms to of this company has enabled us to through our MTN marketplace and enhance our offering. Our fintech open up our infrastructure to third through our investments in other offering also extends into the parties, including other e-commerce platforms. We offer our enterprise space, particularly for telecommunications (telcos) and own digital lifestyle media services small and medium enterprises technology companies to resell including music, video and gaming (SMEs) and small offices and home excess capacity. (and soon messaging too), as well as offices (SOHOs). digital marketing services. 2 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Our sustainability approach MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 3 º º Our sustainability approach º º º º º º Our sustainability approach Our sustainability vision Our vision, framework and focus areas is to protect and create shared value for MTN and our stakeholders through responsible environmental and social practices. To realise our vision, our sustainability approach is categorised into three pillars that Sustainable Sustainable Eco-responsibility identify the areas we Economic value societies most focus on, to ensure we operate responsibly and sustainably. • Digital solutions to close • Energy use, greenhouse • Ethics the digital divide gas emissions and climate • Digital human rights • Internet of Things (IoT), change • Safe, healthy and inclusive smart and other • Network environmental workplaces enterprise solutions impacts including • Responsible procurement that address specific electromagnetic fields • Corporate social social and environmental • Natural and manufactured investment requirements in MTN’s resource use (water, paper, markets plastic, etc) and waste management 4 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º Our sustainability approach º º º º º º Our sustainability approach continued Our strategy Stakeholders We view our role in society as protecting and creating shared value for MTN and our To create a net positive impact and to be a responsible business partner, it is critical for stakeholders. This includes our ethical and legal responsibilities, as well as creating us to understand our stakeholders’ concerns and to address them appropriately. With the opportunities to transform lives. In this report, you will find information that describes the aim of being more responsive to our stakeholders’ concerns, a framework for stakeholder ways in which we use our assets and capabilities to respond to needs in the communities engagement was developed at a group level and cascaded to operating countries for in which we operate. You will also find information about how we manage ethics within customisation and implementation. Further information regarding MTN’s stakeholders our operational processes, address human rights and workplace issues, and manage and their concerns can be found in the group’s integrated report on page 28. environmental and social challenges. MTN is a market leader in 14 of the 21 markets in Africa and the Middle East, where we Governance operate. As a result, we can use our resources to make a sustainable difference to the lives MTN Group’s sustainability governance structure and reporting frequency is depicted of some of the world’s most marginalised countries through our core business activities. below. For a complete list of the group board committees please see page 52 of the Guided by macro-trends, materiality assessments and increasing bilateral and ongoing group’s integrated report. stakeholder dialogue, as well as through global sustainability codes and protocols, we have prioritised the material areas where we can best make a positive impact or mitigate our negative impacts. By overlaying our sustainability focus areas against our BRIGHT strategy, we remain focused on meeting our vision of making strides in the digital world responsibly and meaningfully. We are 18 months into our BRIGHT strategy, and have looked at how we can execute this strategy through a responsible business lens. This strategy is aimed at sustaining value Group social and ethics committee for MTN and our stakeholders through ensuring the best customer experiences, being more efficient and delivering financial returns, igniting our commercial performance, Reporting frequency: every three growing our business through offering data and digital services that meet the needs of our months customers, addressing the issues important in the hearts and minds of our stakeholders, and ensuring technology excellence. Group executive committee A description of our BRIGHT strategy and how we remain commercially viable and socially Group Reporting frequency: monthly relevant to our stakeholders is set out in detail in the section on how our strategy is sustaining value in our 2018 integrated report. MTN’s BRIGHT strategy is essentially our board Group president and CEO approach to ensuring that we operate sustainably. functional review Reporting frequency: every two months Group chief regulatory and corporate affairs review Reporting frequency: monthly MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 5 º º Our sustainability approach º º º º º º Our sustainability approach continued Materiality process The sustainability standards set out in the previous section, along with guidance from publications of organisations such as the United Nations, GSMA, International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and World Economic Forum (WEF) are used to structure our integrated reporting framework. The following sources are considered in our Materiality is determined by reviewing the materiality determination process: • Global  macroand hyper-trends, and industry and country developments. issues most important to our stakeholders, • Engagement  with stakeholders as indicated in the section on the relationships on which we rely to create value on page 28 of the integrated report. and assessing the impact of these issues • Feedback from stakeholders who review the annual sustainability report. •  Engagement with all stakeholders through the e-mail addresses on the achievement of our business sustainability@mtn.com; investor.relations@mtn.com; MTNGroup.PressOffice@mtn.com; csi@mtn.com; e-mails to executives and other addresses, calls and other forms of objectives. Material matters are then communication. • Information  gained through engagements with regulatory authorities, media prioritised according to the scale and organisations, civil rights groups, community-based organisations, our customers, and general members of the public. nature of impact on business operations, • Feedback  from engagements with the JSE FTSE4Good Africa Index series, the CDP, MTN’s investors, ratings agencies and analysts, civil rights groups and research economic performance and interests of organisations that assess our responsible business performance. • Information  from third-party questionnaires and assessments by universities, civil our stakeholder groups. rights groups and other independent third parties. • Results  determined from analysis, internal review and research processes including industry, peer and global developments, and reputational, regulatory issues, risk and This report contains information that we deem to be of material significance to our audit management processes. long-term social, socio-economic and environmental sustainability. The materiality • Assessment  of issues covered by MTN board committees. determination process and diagram below complements and provides more detail to some of the material issues set out in the section on our market context and how this Issues identified through this process are assessed during internal materiality reviews. impacts our material issues in the MTN Group integrated report ending 31 December These issues are reviewed by the group executive and the group social and ethics 2018. committees. We undertake this review periodically to ensure that we are responsive and can adapt to changing operating conditions. 6 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º Our sustainability approach º º º º º º Our sustainability approach continued Having considered this process, our material sustainability matters for 2018 are set out below: Where issue Material issues is covered Digital inclusion and affordable communications Sustainable economic value High Ethics Service quality and customer experience Digital inclusion and affordable SR, IR, UN GRI communication Digital human rights Economic performance Service quality and customer IR, SR experience Importance to stakeholders Economic performance IR EMF Energy and climate Internet of Things (IoT) SR Medium Eco-responsibility Internet of Things IR, SR, UN GRI, Energy and climate Talent UNGC, CDP Inclusive workplaces Electromagnetic fields (EMF) SR CSI Supply chain IR, SR, UN GRI, Healthy, safe working environments Environmental resources UNGC Environmental resources Sustainable societies Low IR, SR, UN GRI, Ethics UNGC Low Medium High IR, SR, UN GRI, Digital human rights UNGC Material impact on MTN’s objectives Talent IR, SR, UN GRI IR, SR, UN GRI, More information on MTN’s strategy and performance is located in the group’s integrated report (IR), this sustainability Inclusive workplaces UNGC report (SR), UN Global Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI), UN Global Compact Communication of Progress (UNGC) or Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) reports available on our website. Supply chain UN GRI Healthy, safe working environment SR, GRI, UNGC Corporate social investments (CSI) IR, SR, UN GRI MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 7 º º Our sustainability approach º º º º º º Supporting the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and UN Global Compact (UNGC) Principles The diagram below describes how our activities, as described in this report, complement broader global development goals. 1.4 3.2 3.8 4.1 4 a 4 b 5.5 6.4 • Digital • Corporate • Corporate • The inclusive • IoT access and social social workplace solutions inclusion investment investment • Green • Mobile office financial services Principle 6 Principle 8 and 9 7.1 8.7 8.8 9c 12.2 • Mobile financial • Our strategy • Digital access and • IoT services • Health and inclusion solutions • Environmental wellness • Mobile financial • Green office and impact services EMF • IoT solutions • Prepaid solar Principles 8 and 9 Principles 3 and 4 Principles 7 and 8 13.1 15.7 16.2 16.3 16.10 17.7 17.8 • Response to • Response to • Ethics • Digital access and environmental environmental strategy inclusion impact impact • Mobile financial • IoT • IoT services solutions solutions • Corporate social investments • Response to environmental impact • IoT Principles 8 and 9 Principle 9 Principles 1, 2 and 10 Principle 8 solutions 8 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º About this report º º º º º º º Group president and CEO on sustainability • Although the world faces a number of challenges that affect how organisations operate responsibly, these matters also provide great opportunities to shift the world towards a more sustainable future. • The kinds of products and services we offer help break down social and economic barriers. • We are changing our approach to sustainability, starting with how we live our values and extending our BRIGHT strategy to meet the needs of our stakeholders more effectively. Our shared values and mission of making lives BRIGHTer is a major source of continuity and renewal, uniting our efforts to lead sustainable change. • We are also guided by the UN SDGs and UN Global Compact in transitioning to an organisation that generates greater shared value. 9 º º º Group president and CEO on sustainability º º º º º Q&A with the Group president and CEO on sustainability MTN is an emerging market mobile operator with a clear vision to lead the delivery of a bold, new digital world to our 233 million customers across 21 operations. We are inspired by our belief that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life. Q In your view, what were the major global developments that affected how responsible businesses operated in 2018? A: As innovations such as artificial intelligence, the use of big data and automation continue to be showcased in real-world applications daily, we are excited by the ability for humanity to realise breakthrough solutions to improving our lives and resolving realworld challenges. Some of these challenges include fighting poverty and inequality, creating opportunities for income-generation and self-employment, and improving access to quality education and healthy food, among others. However, people remain concerned about their job security, how to maintain their rights, who governs and controls the consequences of some innovations, and what the state of the environment means for access to resources and for our collective futures. In 2018, there were even more ongoing movements around the world, with people demanding equity, transparency and responsible actions from governments and companies. Even young children are now actively making their voices heard. These concerns mean that ethics and values-based leadership are even more critical for Rob Shuter organisations to operate sustainability. We need to lead in a more transparent, responsible Group president and CEO and sustainable manner, and we must do so with greater urgency and impact. 10 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º Group president and CEO on sustainability º º º º º Q & A with the Group president and CEO on sustainability continued Q How did MTN respond to these changes? A: MTN serves close to 233 million people in emerging areas: we can therefore make a Q Is MTN making enough progress in addressing socioeconomic, ethical and environmental matters that affect its stakeholders? meaningful difference by shifting our markets towards a more sustainable future. For A: Everyone can always do more, more efficiently and with more impact. However, MTN, sustainability means three things: how our business can help our stakeholders meet we are pleased to have made good progress in some areas in 2018. their aspirations, how we conduct our operations in respectful and rights-driven ways that have the least harmful effects, and how we can reinvest some of the economic value We increased affordable communications. Great strides have been made to connect that we earn back into the communities that support us. people in rural areas in Afghanistan, Nigeria, South Africa, Zambia and in several more countries in which we operate. We fostered partnerships with multinational We are on a journey to better understand what this means for our organisation and we organisations and local authorities and communities, working together to achieve are gradually changing the way we approach sustainability. Our journey focuses on three shared-value outcomes. By truly focusing on solutions that close the digital divide, aspects: values-based leadership, using our resources to support the global development 401 more communities in rural areas have enjoyed digital access for the first time. agenda, and focusing strongly on enhancing inclusion to ensure our customers can more Effective data rates per megabyte across the group declined by 39%, increasing the easily and affordably reap the benefits of being online. affordability of communications. Our values of innovation, leadership, integrity, relationships and a can-do attitude in We are closing the fintech divide. This is one of our key strategic aims. We must meeting the needs of our stakeholders guide our business conduct. We have also started reduce the number of people that are still unable to access banking and other to map our key activities against some of the targets set out in the UN SDGs and continue financial services in sub-Saharan Africa and our other markets. To achieve this, to align our efforts to the principles of the UN Global Compact. we are leveraging the natural relationship between financial services and mobile telecommunications. This allows us to explore an eco-system of services through We are focused on solutions to enhance digital inclusion and transform societies. We partnerships with regulatory authorities, financial service organisations, merchants firmly believe that technology and connectivity can accelerate transformative solutions and other stakeholders. As a result of our efforts, over 27 million people now actively to some of the world’s complex challenges. We unpacked what it really means to connect enjoy the benefits of easy, cost-effective mobile financial services in 14 countries people digitally, developing a model to ensure basic coverage, handsets, affordability, where we operate. services and education to bring new opportunities to people that were previously excluded from the digital world. We actively set up partnerships with stakeholders who share our We are using our resources to mitigate environmental challenges. We believe that belief, which is that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life. we can contribute to a healthier state of the environment through, for example, solutions which predict the maintenance requirements of systems that deliver MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 11 º º º Group president and CEO on sustainability º º º º º Q & A with the Group president and CEO on sustainability continued energy, water and other critical utilities, or that enable animals to thrive freely both in people the opportunity to learn more about the digital world and to develop their future the wild and for agricultural purposes. We were proud to have played a role in the launch careers, we held our first Y’ello Global Career Day in 2018. Close to 7 500 young people of the first smart city in our operating footprint in 2017 in Anazli in Iran, and we are now learnt more about the world of work and what a digital future means for them. Attracting looking at extending this by offering digitally connected transport solutions that reduce young and talented people is crucial for MTN as a digital organisation: at the group head congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. Through these solutions, we contribute office, we recruited 100 Yes4Youth graduates, and we will be recruiting another 1 000 towards economic growth while responding to the need to mitigate negative climate young people in our South Africa operations. This complements our global graduate effects. development programme, which sources and accelerates the development of top graduates across Africa and the Middle East. We are focusing on career development for employees and for future leaders drawn from the communities in which we operate. Ensuring that our people are engaged, motivated and empowered is fundamental in helping us realise our goals. We champion a more diverse and inclusive workplace for talented people. In Ghana, we launched a threeyear programme to increase the number of women in technology, building readiness for Q How will MTN be creating enduring value for its stakeholders through sustainable business practices in 2019? A: We are confident that our products and services are breaking down social and female leaders in areas of the business where women are underrepresented. In Nigeria economic barriers. To achieve this, we are extending our BRIGHT strategy to better use our Women at Y’ello programme was enhanced to further promote gender equality, our abilities and resources to make a meaningful impact and ensure that more people facilitating networking and ensuring well-rounded female leaders. can realise the benefits of a modern connected life. Across the board, we are building a healthy pool of successors and future leaders with critical skills to meet the needs of our customers and other stakeholders. To give young 12 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Transforming economies and societies MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 13 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Transforming economies and societies We want to This section demonstrates how we commercially deploy digital solutions to reduce barriers faced by those communities that are traditionally unable to participate actively in the benefits of a modern, connected world. It includes an overview on our progress on matters such as connectivity, affordability ensure that and access to digital and financial services. It also includes information on how our corporate social investment strategy is helping address some of the major issues and needs in our markets, through philanthropic investments that supplement our commercial activities and enable us to further everyone enjoys support developmental outcomes. the benefits of a Contributing to the UN SDGs modern connected UN SDG indicators MTN’s contribution life. Our core 1.4 All men and women, particularly the poor and the vulnerable, have equal rights capabilities, to economic resources, access to basic services, appropriate new technology and • Digital access and inclusion • Mobile financial services products, social financial services including microfinance, etc investments 3.2 End preventable deaths of newborns and children under five • Corporate social investment and cooperative 3.8 Universal health coverage including access to quality essential healthcare services partnerships 4.4 Substantially increase number of youth and adults with relevant skills including are focused technical and vocational for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship 4a Build/upgrade education facilities for inclusive, effective learning environments • Corporate social investment 4b Scholarships in developing countries on enabling connectivity, 7.1 Access to affordable, reliable modern energy services • Mobile financial services inclusivity and socio-economic 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive transformation employment and decent work for all • Mobile financial services enabled by digital technologies in 9c Affordable, universal access to information and communication technology (ICT) • Digital access and inclusion • Mobile financial services our markets. • Digital access and inclusion 17.8 Enhance use of information and communication technologies • Mobile financial services 14 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Transforming economies and societies continued What we said we would do in 2018 Activity Progress Results Drive deeper access to and affordability of See digital access and inclusion mobile internet Ensure 60 million In 2018, we had 27 million active people actively use MTN Mobile Money subscribers, up MTN Mobile Money by from 21,8 million in 2017. See mobile 2023 financial services Roll out prepaid solar Prepaid solar solutions benefited power solutions to an estimated 2,3 million people (up enable access to from 1,3 million in 2017). Test results affordable, reliable, indicate an increase of 104% in MTN Nasonko and her family, including her six children, live in renewable energy and Mobile Money flows through bill Kanyanya, Uganda. She has been an MTN Uganda customer to enhance financial payment in the three months after the for 10 years. When her husband told her that he had lost inclusion acquisition of the solar system his job, and they no longer had money for school fees, she felt tremendous pressure for two weeks. She then decided to manage the situation by opening a small business. She Evolve MTN’s CSI now makes 50 000 shillings per day (about US$382 per We increased our focus on youth month). Nasonko uses MTN airtime to place orders with her approach to make empowerment, and will continue to suppliers, and MTN Mobile Money to pay them. She says that better use of MTN’s evaluate this approach in 2019 functional capabilities MTN Mobile Money saves her time and is easier than other payment methods. Her business has been so successful that she now dreams of transforming her small retail shop into a Legend wholesale business. Completed In progress: on schedule In progress: behind schedule Not achieved MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 15 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Digital access and inclusion Our strategy According to GSMA, at the end of 2017 only 30% of people CHASE Fulfilling the connectivity and communication needs of our customers in sub-Saharan Africa had access to mobile broadband connectivity. This is reflected in MTN’s markets: around 79 million of MTN’s 233 million subscribers have access to the internet. We are therefore driven to improve access to SERVICE affordable communications to ensure that people in our COVERAGE HANDSETS AFFORDABILITY BUNDLING EDUCATION markets can reap the social, economic and developmental Ensure sufficient and Increase affordability Increase data service Simplify bundling and selling of data Enhance digital literacy and affordable data and access to affordability and services to awareness of the dividends of being online. coverage in data-enabled ensure relevance potential of digital rural and lowdevices services Improving digital inclusion requires us to ensure that people have access to reliable income areas networks and affordable internet-enabled devices. It is also important that they understand how to use digital communications effectively to enhance their lives. Implementing and realising the shared benefits of CHASE is a medium to long-term MTN’s approach to enabling access and affordability is positioned within the growth goal, and we are pleased to report progress in some areas over 2018. We commenced through digital and data, and the technology excellence pillars of our BRIGHT strategy. implementation of programmes designed to improve network coverage in rural and lowMore details on this strategy is available in the group’s integrated report. income markets and identified ways to increase the affordability of mobile handsets and data services. We simplified how some of the services that we offer are bundled to enable To connect more people and achieve our objective of growth through data and digital customers to manage their costs and access their desired data services more easily. services, we adopt a dual data strategy. This strategy is aimed at reducing the digital Digital literacy, or the ability of our customers to find and effectively use the internet and divide between urban-based customers and those in rural areas more effectively. Highsocial media services, is key in closing the digital divide. While we commenced work on value customers, an established market predominantly in major cities, generally have this, more needs to be done. more disposable income to invest in smartphones and can access networks more easily than other customer segments. Reliability, network performance, 24/7 connectivity and Co-operative partnerships with vendors and other organisations that share our vision of speed are some of the critical aspects required by these customers. Customers who have digital inclusion as a means of driving social and economic transformation in our markets lower incomes or who may be based in rural areas (MTN’s volume segment) comprise are fundamental to the realisation of our CHASE objectives. approximately 70% of our market. These customers value basic affordable connectivity on internet-enabled phones. Attracting these customers requires MTN to offer the types Coverage of services and content that are most relevant to their needs. We aim to connect the unconnected. Some of the constraints that hamper connectivity include distant locations and scattered areas of settlements, the lack of energy, road What we did infrastructure and security in remote areas, the cost of civil engineering and radio and transmission equipment, and site maintenance access and costs. We developed the CHASE framework to address the needs of lower-income segments and customers based in rural areas. These customers generally face five key barriers to We partnered with Facebook on the Telecom Infra (TIP) OpenCellular Project and Rural internet access, namely coverage, handsets, affordability, service bundling and education. Africa programme to explore the application of cost-effective network technologies from 16 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Digital access and inclusion continued start-up vendors working to meet the connectivity and data coverage requirements of people in sparsely populated and low income areas. Laboratory trials with partners on 2G and low capacity infrastructure to address some constraints have proved promising. Technologies appear to deliver that which is required by rural customers reliably and affordably. In Nigeria and Zambia, 60 trial sites in each country testing 2G, 3G and 4G technologies are now in place. Piloting different models and technologies in rural areas will provide us with insights into technical feasibility, service performance and customer requirements. The objective of these trials is to determine if new networks can meet the requirements of customers in rural areas and can be rolled out commercially. We intend to extend similar solutions to seven additional countries in 2019. We implemented cost-effective, quick-deployment, solar-powered sites in remote rural areas in Ghana, Nigeria and South Africa. Anecdotal feedback from customers indicate their relief in no longer having to walk long distances to areas with network sites to make calls and access the internet. The president and CEO of MTN Group, CEO of KaiOS Technologies Inc., executive vice-president of China Mobile Communications Group Co. Ltd., and executive vice-president of UNISOC announced a partnership to launch the world’s first 3G smart feature phone in Africa, powered by KaiOS It is critical that the partners we work with ensure a lasting socio-economic impact on the communities where our solutions are implemented. This is achieved by training local people to build and maintain sites, and to manufacture some of the equipment or Affordability resources needed to operate sites. The reasons for the affordability challenges with the cost of data are complex and interrelated and include the cost of capital and other network investments, the availability of radio Internet-enabled affordable handsets frequency spectrum required for coverage and speed of connectivity, the need to ensure One of the achievements we were pleased to realise in 2018 was the development of a universal access to digital communications, and other aspects. Despite such challenges, 3G smart feature phone through a partnership with China Mobile, UNISOC and KaiOS we continue to actively seek ways to reduce costs and enhance access to data and related technology, for launch in 2019. For the majority of MTN’s customers, the cost of traditional mobile services. smartphones is out of reach. At US$20 (or approximately R265) the MTN Smart 3G feature phone offers several smartphone-type services and functions enabling internet connectivity, We are currently reviewing how we price and package our data services, especially on is more affordable than other smart feature phones and has a long battery life. entry-level data bundles. Our objective is to increase affordability of broadband access and facilitate access to content that is specific to the needs of our customers. For Combined with our coverage plan for rural areas, enabling people to use data services on instance, we now offer Facebook Flex, an entry-level service that allows people to browse affordable connected devices such as the MTN Smart 3G feature phone instead of relying Facebook for free, even if their data has been depleted. This allows people to tangibly and on handsets that allow voice and text services only can open a world of opportunities for affordably experience the benefits of connectivity. people to transform their daily lives. We aim to ensure that 10 million more people can use MTN’s smart feature phones to connect to the internet in the next three years. MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 17 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Digital access and inclusion continued Service bundling Our objective is to bring the most relevant content to the communities we serve in the most Our impact affordable manner. This includes simplification of how data and services are bundled. We 68,2% introduced app-specific bundles and time-based bundles that are easier to understand and use in several markets. Structuring access by listing the most popular social media services that people use makes it easier to understand communication costs (compared to selling data by describing & 33% the megabytes or gigabytes that people can purchase). Time-based data bundles allow 78,8 million customers to manage their budgets by purchasing access to services for defined time periods, eg one hour’s worth of access to Facebook and Instagram or WhatsApp. This also allows customers to only pay for the services they most wish to use. Education Digital literacy is an understanding of how to use computers, tablets and cellular phones effectively, improving how people connect, live and enhance their lives. In 2018, our focus active data on education included marketing campaigns, educational events and upskilling our onthe-ground sales force. We have more work to do on educating our connected customers and we intend to focus more closely on this aspect going forward. 3G and 4G site coverage subscribers respectively (434m people on 3G, 210m people on 4G) Looking forward 2018 focused on defining the CHASE framework and establishing it within the business, and we will continue this roll-out in 2019. This will include rolling out rural connectivity in seven more countries, launching the MTN Smart 3G T and S model feature phones in our markets and developing a cohesive digital literacy programme. 401 45,2% rural sites smartphone are now operational penetration 18 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Mobile financial services Our strategy Syria Afghanistan our partners to extend access to comprehensive Iran and affordable services, Latest World Bank research while ensuring attention is indicates that 66% of subpaid to protecting the system from fraudulent activity and ensuring that Saharan Africa remains trust is maintained. unbanked. The UN has Mobile financial services form a key stated that digital aspect of our BRIGHT strategy, enabling Nigeria financial services are Sudan Yemen growth through access to digital and data Benin essential to achieve GuineaBissau services by promoting financial inclusion in our markets. We can achieve growth by universal financial Guineatransforming our mobile money offering from Conakry South inclusion. In our bid to Sudan service-based products and basic transactions to advanced services where innovation is driven by close the financial and Liberia Ivory Ghana an ecosystem of partners, focusing on interrelated Cameroon Uganda technology (fintech) divide Coast transactions between consumers and businesses. in Africa and the Middle East, Rwanda Our objective to increase digitally enabled financial Congowe aim to be the largest mobile Brazzaville inclusion will be achieved by accelerating penetration financial services provider in Africa by of services, extending access to services in more markets and increasing usage rates. We will accelerate service offering services in 18 countries. penetration by taking mobile financial services to scale in Zambia existing smaller markets and increasing investments and Mobile money is a powerful enabler of socio-economic inclusion and improving distribution and customer engagement in medium development, creating employment for agents and distributors, enabling and larger markets. We aim to increase product usage by improved collection of tax revenues and utility payments, supporting the implementing additional services such as savings, lending sustainability of schools through fee payments, mitigating negative financial services, international remittances and insurance. impacts on families through micro-savings, loans and insurances and ensuring communities are not left behind by facilitating remittances between workers and Swaziland Trust is a fundamental requirement of ensuring consumer their families easily, instantaneously and affordably. Access to mobile financial uptake of mobile financial services and reducing losses services supports the cashless economy aims expressed by many countries in Africa, South experienced by organisations and customers. As the Countries where and digitising the large flows of informal cash transfers contributes to the integrity of Africa we offer MTN services offered by financial and ICT sectors converge, the financial markets (GSMA). Mobile Money risk of fraud also increases. Detecting, preventing and reducing such risks in the mobile money ecosystem requires collaboration The range of solutions to close the financial services gap in the markets in which we with competitors, the financial sector, regulators and other partners. operate requires cooperative partnerships with financial service providers, regulatory MTN has an integrated approach to risk management in mobile financial services authorities, other mobile network operators, merchants, distributors, innovators and which includes addressing fraud, security, privacy and transparency management. business associations. We have therefore worked on strengthening relationships with MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 19 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Mobile financial services continued What we did The Mobile Bank of Africa is our initiative to create a marketplace for financial products. We offer micro-savings and lending products with licensed organisations in several countries. Our mobile savings and loans will evolve to a multi-product financial marketplace, allowing Driving financial inclusion many types of financial service organisations to provide a comprehensive range of services We are focused on four strategic projects through collaborative partnerships to drive to our consumers. We engaged with new partners in several markets and commenced with financial inclusion. the integration of the MoMo financial marketplace in the open API programme. “We have spent 10 years building the issuing part of the business, and now we have to round out the ecosystem by building the merchant network on the other side and adding other money-in and money-out options: money coming in via salaries, casual wages, social grants and so on, and money going out for payments and remittances.” Rob Shuter, MTN Group president and CEO Financial Mobile Money Open API for Mobile Bank of inclusion through (MoMo) innovation Africa Mainstream insurance products in Africa have not always been structured around the interoperability Marketplace specific needs of low-income customer segments. The lack of access to insurance results in disproportionate economic and personal hardships to affected families when losses occur. We launched an open mobile money access programming interface (API) in Uganda. MTN’s network and competencies allows us to offer relevant, accessible and affordable Through free access to our proprietary software platform, the open API enables micro-insurance products for people who have previously been unable to benefit from developers and programmers to innovate on our platform. This platform will allow us traditional insurance schemes. Through aYo, our joint venture with MMI Holdings, the first to simplify complex integration and partnership requirements, while supporting startmicro-insurance products – Recharge with Care and Send with Care – were designed and up enterprises and innovators. Developers will now be able to offer products that ease made available in Uganda in 2016. Changes to the product and to customer processes payment options and other innovative solutions to enable a wider range of mobile wallet were made following testing and product sales in 2017. In 2018, our solutions were made services for our customers. We intend to extend the open API to other countries in future. more widely available to customers in Uganda and subsequently in Ghana. We are actively working to ensure financial inclusion through interoperability. We partnered with Orange Group to bring together over 100 million mobile money accounts Mobile financial services certification and risk management and mobile money operations in 22 countries in sub-Saharan Africa. This partnership GSMA’s Mobile Money certification was officially launched in April 2018. Eight principles enables money to circulate freely between mobile money accounts issued by any provider, with almost 300 required and 200 recommended indicators to ensure safer, more in real time and at low cost. We hope that mobile money will become a universal means of transparent and resilient financial services were set out. Certification is valid for three payment in Africa. We are working towards this by connecting financial service providers years and renewal requires demonstration that additional recommended indicators have and customers in one inclusive network and functioning as an industry utility open to any been successfully implemented. Following the official launch of this certification scheme, mobile money provider including banks, money transfer operators and other financial we are proud to report that our operation in Ivory Coast was the first mobile financial service providers. service to receive certification as a result of compliance with all required indicators related to protecting customers’ money, ensuring fraud is not prevalent, managing antiOur MoMo Marketplace is an initiative to transition from offering traditional mobile money laundering, protecting data and confidentiality and ensuring customer care and payment services to becoming a digital marketplace for e-commerce. Through MoMo Pay, transparency, among other indicators. More operations are currently being prepared for merchants will be able to use our platform to upload their product catalogues and enable certification. MTN has been a signatory to the GSMA Code of Conduct for mobile money purchases and online payment. We are currently defining our proposed solution, which operators since 2014, and we are a key member of the working group driving standards will be piloted in Ghana. and evolution of mobile money certification indicators to promote excellence in the provision of mobile money services globally. 20 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Mobile financial services continued In 2018, we assessed the range and types of risks faced in our operations and developed education to staff and engage with external regulators as required. We also engage solutions to both mitigate a number of these risks to our customers, our partners and partners on issues such as fraud management in the loans process and know-yourour business. The revenue assurance risk and control framework was revised to address customer (KYC) requirements. detective and preventative controls for over 105 activities directly related to mobile money fraud including anti-money laundering, and SIM swap, subscription, vendor and To contribute towards the industry’s learning and solution development on this issue, dealer fraud and systems manipulation, among others. The framework was revised to we developed and freely distributed eBooks and learning material on several aspects ensure consistency across our operations, and has been designed flexibly to ensure of enterprise risk and fraud management, including on a course on the mobile money some customisation by country operations based on the types of services they offer and ecosystem and the opportunities and risks to mobile network operators. to ensure compliance to local regulatory requirements. Regulatory developments in mobile financial services We are working towards the standardisation of primary and secondary mobile money There has been an evolution in regulatory approaches for mobile money in our markets. controls across our operations. Systems, processes and reporting mechanisms are now Sub-Saharan Africa is a leading market in mobile money transactions globally, and with in place to monitor and resolve fraudulent mobile money incidents in the markets in countries increasingly working towards financial inclusion and cashless economies, which we offer these services. One such example is our solution to combat mobile money financial and telecommunications regulators continue to work on ensuring the growth fraud through SIM swaps. Fraudsters sometimes act in groups to capitalise on mobile of these services. money transactions. They request a SIM swap by pretending to be a customer whose SIM card has been lost, damaged or may need to be upgraded. Through the SIM swap, they MTN has developed a holistic approach to regulatory changes regarding mobile financial can gain access to the information on the targeted customer’s SIM card, including their services. Within our product ecosystem, we have a variety of mobile money models that mobile money wallet. They then send money from the mobile wallet to others in the fraud require varying regulatory responses and services. These models range from exclusively group, who withdraw and spend the money immediately so that it cannot be recovered. bank-led models to telecommunications (telco) models, and hybrids of these. We envisage In response, we implemented a mechanism to detect potential fraudulent SIM swaps. A future regulations allowing teleco operators to become fully fledged licensed banking text message is now sent to customers stating that a swap is about to take place and and financial service providers and have been working towards structuring ourselves to requesting customers to contact MTN immediately if the transaction was not initiated leverage these opportunities in preparation for these changes. by themselves. The message contains information about how to stop the SIM swap and how to report it. We have also taken measures to educate customers about fraud and the In 2018, some countries, most notably Nigeria, enhanced their regulations to advance different ways it can happen. the country’s agenda on financial inclusion. According to the World Bank and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, there are more than 60 million unbanked people in Nigeria. We engaged with our peers, bank business partners and the GSMA Africa chapter (which By creating a payment service bank (PSB) licensing regime, the country has created a focuses on the features of fraud in mobile financial services in our markets) to address platform for accelerated economic growth. Under the bank-led model, MTN had applied fraud. We are increasingly building in “right to audit” terms in contracts with existing and for a super-agent licence, in terms of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) Framework, new vendor contracts, ensuring that the technical and business vendors with whom we which will allow mobile network operators to use their agency distribution network to partner implement anti-fraud controls. This allows us to harness the power of partnerships participate in offering limited mobile money services. We also applied for a PSB licence. to strengthen oversight, compliance, controls and mitigate issues. This permits mobile network operators to offer basic financial transactions including deposits and withdrawals. We have recently also applied for licensing as a micro-finance Education on mobile money services, how risks arise, and how to identify fraudulent bank under the CBN guidelines. Micro-finance services include loans, deposits, insurance, activity is critical. We engage the judiciary and police services to explain how mobile fund transfers and other non-financial products for low-income clients. Through our financial services work and what the potential risks are, including how customers may applications, we are hoping to actively reduce the number of unbanked adults. be defrauded. Anti-money laundering officers in each of our operations provide internal MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 21 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Mobile financial services What we did continued In total, 27 087 000 active customers now enjoy the benefits of easy, cost-effective mobile financial services in 14 countries of operation. 27m 376 000 570 Over-the-top (OTT) content providers, and social media and mobile money services also attracted regulatory attention in 2018, in several countries where we operate. Following an amendment to the Excise Duty Act in Uganda, a tax of 1% of the transaction value of mobile money sent, received and million airtime sales on payments made was introduced in July 2018. All mobile active through mobile 21,8m money service providers, including MTN, implemented the taxes as required by the prevailing regulations. Following agents financial concerns about the impact on financial inclusivity and the services potential negative impact on the national economy, the tax rate was amended to 0,5% in November 2018, and now, only cash withdrawals are taxed. MTN transparently lists the tax fee in customer notifications, for customers to easily identify the charge each transaction now attracts. The National Payments Systems Bill of 2018, a law that will regulate mobile 2017 2018 50 000 money in Uganda, is currently under development. There is no indication as to any future proposed levies on mobile money. Active mobile We will continue to monitor developments in this regard. money subscribers loans issued daily on We are also monitoring developments in other countries, specifically in Benin, Cameroon, Ghana and Nigeria where average tax legislation changes regarding mobile money are being $250 million considered. To effectively respond to regulatory and licencing changes, we constructively engaged with entities such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, African Development Bank (AfDB) and regional bodies such as ECOWAS, EAC and inbound mobile money remittances SADC to define an appropriate approach for MTN. We have also embarked on a research initiative into the implications of mobile financial services regulatory developments. Our 3 million 28 objective is to ensure that mobile network operators can remain innovative in meeting the demands for financial customers saving inclusion, support governments’ cashless economy drives, and offer services in an effective and commercially average of US$3 a month sustainable manner while ensuring regulators have sufficient room to set out governance and regulatory requirements and meet market needs. $400 million live remittance corridors in 15 outbound mobile money countries remittances 22 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Mobile financial services continued Looking forward Solar energy for digital and financial inclusion • Mobile financial inclusion: Against the backdrop of energy poverty and the cost of accessing digital >  We aim to offer mobile money services in many of our operating countries, MTN has partnered with leaseservices in Afghanistan, Nigeria, to-own solar product manufacturers to offer affordable, environmentally South Africa and Sudan. responsible and safe solutions that enable people to keep their phones and >  We will roll out micro-insurance services in additional countries. other electronic devices charged and connected to digital services. We first launched this solution in Uganda in 2014, and it is now available • Mobile financial services certification and risk management: in five markets, with plans to launch in Benin in 2019. We estimate that > More operations are currently we have positively impacted around 2,3 million lives, from children who being prepared for GSMA mobile are able to study for longer hours at night to small businesses able money certification in 2019, by to extend their trading hours and offer MTN Mobile Money services. ensuring all business processes, Families are now able to generate income from charging phones, controls and mitigations are fully implemented. LED lightbulbs and other devices, and can live safer, healthier lives by > We will continue to participate in reducing their use of kerosene, diesel generators, and other sources the working group of phase two of fossil fuel-based energy. Over 1,9 million kilowatt hours of energy of the GSMA Code of Conduct was produced in 2018 (assuming 1,5 charge cycles per day). We for more stringent mobile money estimate savings of between US$0.15 and US$0.48 per day in energy certification indicators. > We will develop educational costs for users, depending on the country in which they live. We material on events and examples, replaced more than 10 million litres of kerosene with safe, clean and to enhance understanding of renewable energy. fraud and mitigation by fraud management practitioners in all Prepaid solar systems have increased MTN Mobile Money usage, operations. enabling entrepreneurial revenue and financial inclusion. Test results > We will assess the use of a fraud in 2018 on a sample base of 20 000 customers showed an increase monitoring system incorporating of 104% in MTN Mobile Money flows through bill payment in the three artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning to identify months after the acquisition of the solar system. In addition, funds sent fraudulent activity and combat and received in mobile money transactions increased by 18,4%. irregularities, starting with research and vendor discussions Prepaid solar energy solutions increase affordability and access to digital in 2019. communications, enhances financial literacy and provides a revenue stream for entrepreneurs. It does so in a way that addresses energy and environmental challenges responsibly. This is one of the ways in which MTN is creating shared value in the countries in which we operate. MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 23 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Corporate social investment Our strategy that ensured the establishment of 53 multimedia centres, called Digital Schools or the School Connectivity project, in seven countries. This programme aims to provide students at schools or institutions of higher learning with computer and internet access through MTN’s corporate social investment (CSI) approach is a the installation of computer equipment and the provision of connectivity. The nature of the critical piece of the “hearts and minds” component of multimedia projects varied, depending on the needs of the areas in which we supported implementation. For instance, in Cameroon, we built 15 multimedia centres in secondary our BRIGHT strategy. As one of the largest operators in schools and universities across the country, aimed at offering support to at least 15 000 many of our markets, we can use our resources to make students. In South Africa, we ensured connectivity to meet the needs of nine schools educating close a difference to the communities in which we operate, to 15 330 special needs learners. both through MTN foundations and by encouraging our employees to volunteer their time, skills and services Digital education was also facilitated in other formats. In South Africa, we worked with the through our 21 Days of Y’ello Care programme. Department of Basic Education to facilitate the development of content for local information Over 2 000 Our social investments are made through MTN foundations and CSI functions in the technology textbooks, which will be made available countries in which we operate. We focus on four specific areas of critical social needs in print and interactive digital format. To support in our markets, namely education, health, enterprise development and national priority educators in incorporating digital solutions into requirements. To date, we have primarily invested in supporting education in our markets, their teaching methods and to enhance existing as we believe our expertise, reach and resources will enable us to make the greatest teaching methods, ICT training was provided for impact in this area. We are now beginning to shift our purpose towards enabling youth teachers in at least four of the countries in which scholarships empowerment in our markets. we operate. Over 1 700 teachers benefited from our were awarded in 2018 for investments. Provision of educational scholarships Our employees are also encouraged to make a visible and sustained contribution to the to support disadvantaged students is one of the science, technology and societies in which we operate. Our 21 Days of Y’ello Care volunteer programme offers most common ways in which MTN supports youth in an opportunity for our staff to actively contribute to community development and to be other fields of study communities to fulfil their education requirements. inspired by “giving back” through high-impact social projects, and to understand and appreciate the challenges faced. Priority is given to supporting rural or disadvantaged We maintained our support for access to health care, enterprise development and for communities. The key outcome must be a direct change to the lives of beneficiaries. areas of national priority. Through the Y’ello Hospital project in the Ivory Coast, we have Our goal is to ensure that the volunteering experience is mutually rewarding for our ensured the provision of vaccination rooms, and medical and computer equipment to employees, the company and the communities with whom we engage. seven community health centres. An electronic health solution which provides real-time health data and enables a digital medical filing system will benefit more than 20 000 What we did people. The SMS Printer for Life project in Cameroon, in partnership with the Clinton Health Access initiative, uses SMS printers to reduce the turnaround time for the return An overview of the group’s social and ethics committee’s monitoring of our CSI activities of early infant diagnosis of HIV. Through this initiative, 11 838 laboratory results have is available on page 57 of the intergrated report . been delivered and 633 new-born babies who had tested positive were enrolled in the programme. Health campaigns in Nigeria ensure that basic medical services are made available to rural areas. There was also a focus on supporting hospitals nationally. In total, MTN foundations 24 facilities received hospital beds, equipment and newly renovated maternity wards Our strategic intention is to drive the use of technology to enable access to education, with following our support for maternal health. In Ghana, we commissioned an ultra-modern the goal of promoting and enabling digital teaching and learning. We funded initiatives 40 bed maternity block in the Tema General Hospital. 24 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Corporate social investment continued Given the importance of emerging enterprises in the markets in which we operate, we supported programmes that provided entrepreneurial skills for SMMEs. This ranged from business and entrepreneurship support and the provision of micro-loans and equipment, to specific education programmes aimed at improving entrepreneurial skills and business management knowledge. In South Africa through our support for the Student for the We held our first group-wide Y’ello Global Career Day Advancement of Global Entrepreneurship start-up programme, a university-based to prepare close to 7 500 young people for employment partnership on entrepreneurial skills development and an SMME ICT skills development in a digital workplace. programme, over 25 000 learners are estimated to have benefited from our support for entrepreneur education. In Nigeria, we trained 100 entrepreneurs who face additional challenges due to their disabilities, ensuring they have access to opportunities for socioeconomic inclusion. The objective of our first Global Career Day was to provide youth with insights into the world of work, what employment could look like in a digital future, how data connects people to information and opportunities and how ICT and digital technologies are influencing the In eSwatini, the MTN Cija Ngebhizinisi entrepreneurship training radio world of work, employment and entrepreneurship. This flagship initiative was designed programme provides business and entrepreneurship training through the to ensure a single set of objectives was implemented and replicated in all MTN country country’s national broadcaster, reaching approximately 10 000 people. operations on the same day. Participants were selected from communities and education institutes that would not ordinarily have had the opportunity to attend such events. In recognition of the work of our volunteers, the group awards prizes to the most impactful projects delivered. In 2018, MTN Sudan claimed the coveted Group president and CEO The national priorities in each of the countries in which we operate vary, and we are prize of R1 321 000 (US$100 000). Three regional prizes of R396 300 (US$30 000) were keen to support such requirements. We generally also provide aid during times of natural awarded by the group vice-presidents. disasters, resource shortages and migrant population movements. Following the Adi Bududa landslides in Uganda, MTN donated school shoes and clothes to 1 000 children. In Afghanistan, the Returnee Support project assisted 500 people that had returned from neighbouring Pakistan. To solve water scarcity in West Darfur in Sudan, we provided facilities for about 450 homes, ensuring 2 250 people had access to drinking water. Given the food crisis in Yemen, our food aid support programme ensured over 20 000 people Our impact MTN foundations and CSI investment were able to overcome food insecurity and receive adequate nutrition. We invested R185m in the communities in (Rm) which we operate in 2018. 200 21 Days of Y’ello Care Our community investment in 2018 was 150 The 12th annual 21 Days of Y’ello Care campaign ran from 1 June to 21 June 2018. directed at supporting education in Africa Each year we strive to improve the effectiveness of the campaign. In 2018, more than 100 and the Middle East. 9 000 employees dedicated their time and efforts to uplifting local communities, guided by the theme of “Creating a Brighter Future”, which focused on education programmes 50 for youth empowerment. Each MTN operation developed a programme comprising three 0 components, namely a main educational campaign focused on youth empowerment, a 185 172 project aligning with the national priority of the country, and an educational career day. 2018 2017 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 25 º º º º Transforming economies and societies º º º º Corporate social investment continued MTN Foundation Employee volunteers MTN Sudan Wins 2018 Group president and CEO Number award for volunteerism 12 000 2018 Approximately 62% of the 42 million people in Sudan 10 000 are young people, many of whom are increasingly 8 000 struggling to sustain themselves due to a lack 6 000 of access to education or skills that can ensure 4 000 meaningful employment. Percentage spend 2 000 per focus area ◗ Education 69% ◗ Enterprise development 6% 0 MTN Sudan’s 21 Days of Y’ello Care programme 11 027 9 181 ◗ Health 17% ◗ National priority comprised three business clinics hosted by MTN 2018 2017 areas 8% employees. These included: • Business development and project management Close to 49% of our employees took time out of their work and personal schedules to training for youth who wish to start businesses directly support initiatives important to our communities. but were unsure about where to start. • A business mentoring clinic (one-to-one business coaching) for young people who have business ideas and need support in business-related Looking forward subjects such as marketing, sales, finance, etc. • A Do-It-Yourself (DIY) clinic for people living with With over 60% of Africans being under the age of 25, we aim to ensure maximum effectiveness and impact in our markets by supporting access to resources, capacity physical disabilities to learn more about accessing building and development of youth, ensuring their potential can be leveraged. and using recyclable materials, and how to convert these items into commercial products. We plan to reorient our CSI funding strategy towards youth empowerment. Our focus for the upcoming year is to finalise our group policy and strategy in this regard. The new MTN Sudan also ran a separate campaign to strategy will aim to deliver a more holistic ecosystem of solutions, including access to draw in multiple commercial partners, ensuring a digital education. Support is aimed at people aged between 15 and 24, including school more sustained impact beyond the 21-day period learners, students and young entrepreneurs, and youth who are unemployed and not of the Y’ello Care campaign. An agreement with undertaking tertiary education. Dukkansd.com, an online shopping and logistics site for businesses in Khartoum, now ensures a merchant account for the Disability Union, ensuring free access and services to people living with disabilities. Through a partnership with the New Horizon Centre, weekly discussions to enable entrepreneurs to raise business difficulties and to seek solutions are now being hosted. 26 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º Ethics and human rights º º º Ethics and human rights MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 27 º º º º º Ethics and human rights º º º Ethics and human rights The benefits of the rapidly evolving digital technology must be balanced with responsible application. It is our intention to always conduct our business ethically and in a legally compliant manner, acting to the best of our abilities for the greater good of our business and our stakeholders. Contributing to the UN SDGs and UN Global Compact UN Global Compact MTN’s UN SDG indicators Principles contributions 16. 2 End abuse, • 2: Ensure nonProtecting children exploitation, complicity in human online trafficking and rights abuses violence against MTN Sudan wins the Ethics Institute Initiative of the and torture of Year Award; MTN South Africa is a runner-up. children At the 2018 National Ethics Officers Learning Forum held by the 16. 5 Reduce corruption • 10: Work against Ethics strategy Ethics Institute, MTN’s group ethics office presented a paper and bribery in all corruption in all its on raising the profile and legitimacy of the ethics function in forms forms, including organisations. The 2018 ethics initiative of the year award was extortion and bribery also hosted at this event. Organisations from across Africa who are members of the Ethics Institute entered the competition. 16.10 Ensure public • 1: Support and Digital human rights Two of the three finalists were MTN operations who were access to respect protection strategy recognised for exceptional initiatives to make ethics real in their information and of internationally business environments. Finalists presented their initiatives and fundamental proclaimed human freedoms per shared the results of the impact of the initiative in their business rights national legislation • 2: Ensure nonenvironments. The winner was elected through voting by the and international complicity in human audience of ethics practitioners. MTN Sudan was the overall agreements rights abuses winner for 2018, with MTN South Africa and the City of Cape Town being runners-up. MTN Sudan’s winning initiative entailed a weekly forced policy quiz for all employees, in response to an identified ethics risk where there was deviance from policy and procedures. 28 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º Ethics and human rights º º º Ethics and human rights continued What we said we would do in 2018 Activity Progress Results This is an incremental process. New suppliers are automatically required to accept the code when registering on MTN’s procurement system, before a working relationship can commence. Existing suppliers will be reviewed Continue roll out of supplier code of conduct against an annual supplier “health” check, which will trigger them to accept the code. In total 1 022 partners have endorsed the code since 2017 Continue employee training and education on A total of 8 673 employees undertook training or participated in ethics awareness initiatives. See ethics awareness ethics and recognition Promote a shared meaning of ethics regarding More information on our 2018 activities, including enhancing internal capabilities, improving policies and guidelines leadership’s commitment to ethics across the and promoting corporate integrity internally and externally is available in the ethics section on what we did group and ensure primacy of ethics in MTN Improve focus on privacy management See more about what we did regarding privacy regulation and policy development in the section on privacy The policy was updated but not finalised as a few principles were dependent on the development of a new group Update digital human rights policy privacy policy (work in progress). Updates to the digital human rights policy will be finalised in 2019 once the new group privacy policy is complete We commenced discussions with Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) on the activities and solutions that we can Improve management of children’s human implement to enhance our current management of this issue. We implemented a system that increases oversight rights, specifically focused on prevention of and blocking of illicit traffic regarding sexual abuse of children on MTN.NET, an MTN internet service provider. More access to abusive content on children information is available in the section on protecting children online Legend Completed In progress: on schedule In progress: behind schedule Not achieved MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 29 º º º º º Ethics and human rights º º º Ethics Our strategy We commission an ethics risk assessment (ERA) by an independent organisation every three years. The last ERA was conducted in 2016. The results informed our three-year strategic plan on ethics management activities between 2016 and 2018. The ERA identifies We adhere to a culture of sound ethical business MTN’s opportunities or ethical behaviours, practices or beliefs that contribute to our ethical conduct that generates shared value for MTN and our culture. It also identifies those behaviours, practices or beliefs that could harm internal and external stakeholders and that should therefore be actively managed. In addition stakeholders. We do this through clearly defined policies, to a consolidated group ethics risk report, each MTN country of operation also receives strategies and management approaches, awareness and its own detailed ERA report and ethics risk profile with actionable recommendations. We monitor and track risks and actions using an ethics risk dashboard, and measure our education, and externally evaluated risk assessments. ethics management programme effectiveness, to determine the impact of our efforts. The next ERA will be conducted in 2019. Directors and employees are encouraged to be transparent with regard to any situation, which if not disclosed, could compromise the standards set out in our code of ethics. This More information on MTN’s ethics approach, policy positions, governance and management code includes our position on risks towards corporate governance, customer treatment is also available on our website . and service, employees, interactions with governments, communications, a commitment to communities, society and the environment, and employee conduct. MTN’s whistleblowing facility is operated independently by an accredited third-party organisation, and is available to employees, suppliers, customers and members of other stakeholder groups to What we did report their concerns anonymously. An internal ethics advice and helpline is also available This report complements and provides more detail to the social and ethics report in the to advise employees on ethical conduct. group’s integrated report. Our key activities for 2018 were to continue the implementation of our three-year combined compliance and integrity strategy following results indicated by the ERA process. Ethics capability • MTN has a zero-tolerance approach to fraud, bribery and corruption. We implemented a model of three lines of defence across our footprint. This was a major • All directors and employees are required to declare their interests annually. step towards MTN’s improving ethics management maturity. More information regarding • Employees are required to raise their concerns and report wrongdoing within our risk and compliance function can be found in our integrated report. the workplace. • MTN undertakes to protect employees against any operational detriment or The first line of defence resides with our operational management processes, which must reprisals resulting from whistleblowing in the workplace. ensure that adequate managerial and supervisory controls are in place for compliance and • MTN has a strict “no gifts” policy. All gifts, entertainment and hospitality, control. The second line of defence is required to ensure that risk oversight occurs through monitoring, identification of issues and risk appetite shifts. Significant changes were made whether offered, declined or accepted, must be declared via an online gift within our business risk management function concerning this line of defence, which now registry. includes an expanded focus on ethics risk management. The third line of defence includes • Particular care is taken in respect of any payments to or at the request of the use of existing audit controls and forensics functions to ensure compliance and identify public officials. areas for improvement. With the introduction of this new model, risk and compliance • MTN’s supplier code of conduct must be applied consistently to ensure activities in all operations now also include a dedicated ethics function. that suppliers, employees and subcontractors adhere to ethical and good governance practices. Appointed ethics functionaries are required to formally qualify as ethics officers. This is a • All directors and employees must be conversant with the group’s compliance critical step towards ensuring that each MTN operation develops its ethics office capability requirements. to the desired level. A total of 38 ethics officers certified by the Ethics Institute now ensure • Non-compliance with our ethics policies and instances of breaches will institutionalisation of MTN’s ethics management strategy. Additionally, ethics management be dealt with through disciplinary processes. tools were developed to assist operations that do not yet possess the requisite ethics office capability required by the group. 30 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º Ethics and human rights º º º Ethics continued Ethics guidelines On 17 October 2018, MTN joined the Global Ethics Day initiative to celebrate the contribution We developed and rolled out governance guidelines for ethics management committees in each of organisations to the upliftment of society, the protection of the planet, and to the UN operation. These guidelines outline the role of the country’s ethics management committee, its SDGs. A Global Ethics Day toolkit was developed to ensure that all our operating companies representation, constitution and how it should function, thus ensuring standardisation across were able to join in the celebrations. all our operations. In line with principle 2 of the King IV Report on Corporate Governance, our employees and other stakeholders are educated and familiarised with our ethical standards. For organisations such as MTN that operate across a diverse set of contexts, the question Our code of ethics and ethics position statements are shared on our website and are referenced of universal values and ethics are particularly important. An expert speaker from Ethics in employee and supplier contracts. Monitor provided guidance with the help of a presentation on whether there is such a concept as global ethics or set of universal values, and what these may be. The presentation We developed an employee conduct passport, which elaborates on the principles set out in the centred around values widely accepted, such as the Universal Declaration of Human code of ethics and provides more detail to enable our employees to align their conduct with our Rights, and how universal values can vary given that different people and countries can business strategy. The passport, to be rolled out in 2019, will reinforce the values that will lead to hold differing values. With massive technological advances in the world, the global case our corporate success and underpin how we can enhance trust in our stakeholder relationships. for ethics and the role of legislation and enforcement to prevent disastrous outcomes was also put forward. MTN shared lessons with various South African organisations on our experience in embedding ethics management practices. Anti-bribery and corruption policy MTN has a zero tolerance approach to fraud, bribery and corruption, and we are constantly All MTN operations conducted customised ethics awareness campaigns based on striving to improve our efforts to prevent these activities. We updated the group anti-bribery their objectives with respect to institutionalising ethics locally. MTN South Africa’s and corruption policy to ensure that our efforts against fraud, bribery and corruption continue extensive “Press Pause” campaign encourages employees to reflect on the ethical to align with the overall group ethics framework. dimensions of professional, business and personal decisions. Employees are advised on how to think about the appropriate behaviours and actions that they, Ethics management effectiveness and their colleagues, should exhibit and how to appropriately respond to observed In previous years we tracked ethics inputs. In 2018, we began to track outputs, to better unethical conduct. MTN Ghana’s efforts to deepen ethical values and awareness of integrity understand the effectiveness and impact of ethics management in our various operations. among all employees included general and CEO-led communications and a global ethics This was formalised in a dashboard and assessment process to establish whether each MTN workshop held in a number of business divisions. Close to 215 staff attended ethics lectures, country of operation has the required capabilities to manage ethics effectively, and to the where prizes were awarded for team members who demonstrated an understanding of desired effect. The dashboard and assessment process was approved in ethics issues and management in MTN. 2018, for implementation in 2019. Employee perception of Our employee recognition platform, MTN Shine, was expanded to recognise We conducted an annual audit of the group’s culture, to assess employees’ MTN’s corporate integrity and applaud desired ethical behaviours. This platform aims to promote perceptions of MTN. The group culture audit (GCA) dimension on MTN’s and reward behaviours that result in heightened corporate integrity that corporate integrity increased by 3%. This indicates that our employees believe exceed compliance requirements. The number of reported incidents of MTN is making progress in addressing issues of ethics and integrity across 78% recognition have more than doubled since the introduction of recognition our business. 75% for behaviours that promote corporate integrity, suggesting increased awareness of ethical behaviour and its importance. Ethics awareness and recognition Employee education and awareness of individual and corporate ethical External capacity building behaviours and decisions is an ongoing exercise for MTN. Digital and We held supplier and partner workshops to create awareness and facilitator-led training, campaigns and workshops and recognising understanding of our supplier code of conduct. This resulted in a 2018 instances of behaviour that promote corporate integrity are some of the significant increase in partner endorsements of the code, from 175 vendor tools we use to maintain awareness. 2017 endorsements in 2017 to 1 197 in 2018. MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 31 º º º º º Ethics and human rights º º º Ethics continued It is important to us to support meaningful efforts to improve the level of public trust and ethical practices globally. We therefore funded the release of the Ethics Office Handbook, Looking forward published by the Ethics Institute. The handbook will enable organisations to raise the • L aunch MTN conduct passport: For employees and entities engaged in business with standard of ethics management across the African continent and in the Middle East. The MTN, this is a single point of reference on our standards of ethics and conduct that outcomes from the implementation of recommended practices will increase the number must be met. We will ensure employees become familiar with the conduct passport by of companies that experience the interconnectedness between conducting business including it in induction programmes and employee training. ethically, building public trust, and improving their company’s performance. All MTN • Complete new ethics risk assessment: We will be revising our three-year strategy after ethics officers were issued with copies of the handbook. a new ethics risk assessment is completed in 2019. Ethics management initiatives will also be included in the new ethics management strategy, once the risk assessment identifies types of fraud, and harmful behaviours, beliefs and practices in our Our impact environment. • Continued focus on fraud management: Our 2019 to 2021 efforts will be focused on aspects such as the occurrence of fraud, the control environment, active communication of ethics codes and standards at all levels of the organisation, consistent tone at the Disciplinary sanctions enforced 2018 versus 2017 top, implementation in all operations and improved reporting. Number • Conduct annual conflict of interest disclosure process: All employees are required to declare if they have any relationships from which they or a person associated with them 150 120 may derive personal benefit because of their relationship with MTN. The declaration 90 process will be conducted in early 2019. 60 • Implement ethics management outputs: The ethics management outputs dashboard 30 and assessment process are the tools we will use to improve our understanding and 0 insights into the effectiveness of ethics management in our operations. This will be 10 4 22 8 70 76 120 87 54 131 10 52 22 42 5 0 implemented in our operations in 2019. Not guilty Counselling Verbal Written Final written Suspension Dismissal Pending ◗ 2017 More information on our key focus areas for 2019 may also be found in the social and ◗ 2018 warning warning ethics committee report . warning • A total of 8 673 employees undertook 100 401 training or participated in ethics awareness Employees initiatives. • 100 401 instances of employees promoting 30 178 corporate integrity were recorded. promoting corporate • 11 additional MTN ethics officers were certified by the Ethics Institute. • 1 197 suppliers and partners endorsed the integrity supplier code of conduct. • 94 calls were made to the tip-offs 2018 2017 anonymous whistleblower line. 32 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º Ethics and human rights º º º Digital human rights Operating context Our strategy MTN facilitates digital communications between people and organisations in multiple Digital human rights are the rights of people to freely, countries. These represent a diverse range of geographic, political, regulatory, sociosafely, privately and securely express themselves using economic and cultural environments. Through our operations, over 233 million people are connected, and have access to opportunities to transform their lives. However, these digital solutions. varying contexts add a significant degree of complexity to the provision of communication services. In recent years, peoples’ ability to freely, safely and securely express themselves online has become a global issue of concern for all stakeholders. We continue to observe several External developments over which MTN has little or no reasonable control often occur. In trends and incidents particularly with respect to access and use of personal information, such instances, we find that the interests of the multiple stakeholder groups with whom security breaches, content manipulation that can influence people’s opinions, restrictions we engage including authorities, regulators, customers and civil rights groups sometimes on freedom of online expression, and the misalignment between expectations of online contradict with each other. This places us in the challenging position of balancing the rights, offline rights and national laws. Recent developments have shone the spotlight on requirements of the licences and multiple laws in our operating countries with some of individuals’ online rights and have increased global awareness on the need to safeguard the basic rights and freedoms set out in the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. these rights. As cloud-based and other services are increasingly used to store, process These challenges do not negate MTN’s responsibilities: we are committed to conducting and manage data, the alignment between how prevailing national legislation regulates our business responsibly and ethically, and in compliance with all applicable laws, cross-border data flows and the security of data is also an area of concern. regulations and the terms of our operating licences. Ultimately, our decisions are aimed at ensuring the least possible negative impacts on our operations and our stakeholders. The UN General Assembly affirms that the rights held by people offline must also be protected online. As more people become aware that some of the rights they expect We have actively researched and implemented processes that help us balance several online may not always be consistently applied in the same way as their “real-world” rights, inter-related factors when making decisions on advancing peoples’ rights to online demands on regulators and companies to redress this have increased. These include the freedom of expression, privacy and security. The challenges posed by varying regulations right of customers to choose who can access their information and for what purposes. and stakeholder demands are mitigated by our reference to the global protocols, and The balance between companies’ use of data for legitimate purposes, service provision regulatory compliance, licence obligations, risk and issue management processes. We and regulatory compliance versus how and why data is shared with third parties must assess international conventions and how these are distilled into regional frameworks also be maintained. Issues also emerge as innovations – including the use of automated and national laws, which require MTN’s adherence. We are also informed by the principles decision-making tools and AI – are increasingly deployed worldwide. In some instances, set out in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We these developments have resulted in increasing regulatory oversight regarding innovation work with organisations such as the GSMA and the UN Global Compact to maintain an and internet usage. understanding of human rights developments and implications for MTN. We continually review the work of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and other organised These issues are complex, inter-related and fast-evolving. Solutions are often unclear groups and engage with stakeholders and independent human rights experts to assist and lag behind developments. We continue to see stakeholders at opposing ends of the in the development of business processes to help us improve how we manage peoples’ spectrum regarding how rights are enforced online. Innovation that is self-regulated or rights and mitigate negative impacts. unregulated can be most impactful, but may introduce risks that were not anticipated, resulting in calls for regulation. While regulation is often an enabler to innovation and MTN Group’s digital human rights policy sets out the principles which we apply to reinforces peoples’ rights, it too can have unintended consequences on the free-flowing safeguard the rights of our customers. It does this in a manner that is consistent with nature and open principles on which the internet was founded. Although digital innovation internationally recognised standards and regulatory requirements on freedom of has changed economies and improved access to opportunities, trust in the internet and expression, access to and security of information and privacy, while ensuring that we social media must be rebuilt. All stakeholders including the ICT industry, governments remain compliant with the terms of our licence conditions and prevailing sovereign laws and regulatory authorities, civil rights organisations and media need to work together to where we operate. The group’s policy further outlines measures to address any conflict ensure the benefits of connectivity are not undermined by activities that limit how people between the relevant national laws and MTN’s international obligations to ensure the can use digital technologies to enhance their lives. MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 33 º º º º º Ethics and human rights º º º Digital human rights continued protection of our customers’ rights to freedom of expression, privacy and security. All ICT organisations should expect increasing regulatory oversight. This includes the The group’s policy is informed by the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human strengthening of customers’ online rights and their ability to exercise choices, the use Rights and takes into consideration some of the recommendations expressed within the of customer data for product development and advertising, and controls over business United Nations Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework, the African Union Commission intelligence tools used for decision-making. MTN also expects, and has experienced, more personal data protection guidelines for Africa, and by various industry and civil rights regulation on information that is collected through basic activities and connected devices, groups working on this matter. cloud storage and cross-border data transfers. Our work on governance and operational processes to manage these matters is ongoing. The following principles underlie MTN’s position on human rights. The group’s What we did In 2018, we focused on improving governance, freedom of expression and privacy policy position is available on our website: management processes, customer controls in mobile advertising, ensuring customers are • We believe in the rights of all people to freely communicate and share treated fairly and preventing access to abusive content on children. information, and to enjoy the right to privacy and security in their use of digital communications. Privacy developments • While acting in accordance with prevailing laws and licence conditions, we Our primary responsibility is the confidentiality of customer data, and this is reinforced in will use our best endeavours and scope of influence to protect, respect and our operating licences. The group’s digital human rights policy sets out the principles by ensure these rights of all customers using our solutions where laws and licence which we respect our customers’ privacy, freedom of expression and security. conditions may not appropriately recognise the rights of our customers. • We will take reasonable steps to maintain data transmission and storage In 2018, we focused on the implications of the risk of data breaches, how to offer valueconfidentiality and security. added services and information to customers while empowering them on data rights and • We will only gather customer data for legitimate commercial business choices, the implications of European Union Global Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), purposes and as permitted by licencing and legal obligations. the requirements of the Public Access to Information Act (PAIA) and Protection of Personal Information (PoPI) regulation in South Africa, and the development of privacy bills or laws in Ghana, Kenya and Uganda. We actively monitor and participate in these legislative processes, and ensure compliance to laws. These issues also necessitated a review of the These principles lay the foundation for our digital human rights due diligence approach, existing group’s privacy policy to ensure that we promote responsible practices regarding which comprises the following steps: assessment of potential impact, development of policies, integration of policies into processes, tracking of impacts, and identification of the handling of data. This privacy policy complements and extends the privacy principles remedies. set out in the group’s digital human rights policy. It will be finalised in 2019. Governance of human rights in MTN is overseen by the social and ethics committee of The privacy policy is an integral aspect of good corporate governance, ensuring that we our board and our executive team. Non-crisis events and operational management of conduct our business in accordance with the letter and spirit of applicable regulatory human rights matters are delegated to legal, compliance and other senior officers in our requirements and protecting the personal information for which we are responsible in the operating countries. For MTN, crisis events are defined as instances that have a potential respective jurisdictions in which we carry out our operations. The policy will incorporate mass, wide-ranging and material impact on many of our stakeholders simultaneously, or commonalities across our operations without compromising MTN’s obligations in each that significantly impact our ability to offer our regular products and services. For such operating jurisdiction. The policy will specify how to ensure the privacy rights of natural crisis events, a core senior team in the affected MTN country of operation manages and and juristic persons about whom personal information is available to MTN. We also expect resolves each incident directly. This includes the country CEO and executive team, as well that third parties will respect MTN’s privacy principles. The policy will set out the types of as the regional vice-president and group executive management (including the officers personal information we collect from customers, how we will treat that information and the for regulatory and corporate affairs, risk, legal and where required, human resources). 34 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º Ethics and human rights º º º Digital human rights continued circumstances under which we share it with third parties. It provides for obtaining customer As a result of this focus and the indicators set out by RDR, MTN South Africa firmed consent and commits to maintaining the security of the personal information collected. up privacy governance through structures, policies and re-engineered processes. These include published notices and disclosures to customers, third parties and employees, We have taken guidance from legal and privacy experts in updating this policy. We intend refined processes to manage incidents and breaches, enhanced data protection security to finalise these amendments in 2019. Following this, the current principles related to safeguards, documentation of personal information data flows and remediation against privacy as stated in the digital human rights policy will also be aligned, and the updated control deficiencies, implementation of privacy controls into the supply chain enddigital human rights position will be published on our website. to-end process, and inclusion of privacy by design principles when implementing all transformational programmes of work. More information is also available at the MTN SA GDPR came into effect on 25 May 2018 for all European Union (EU) member states. Privacy Centre. Although MTN does not operate in the EU, some of our activities such as call and data traffic transmissions through the EU may be conducted through third-party arrangements. Empowering customers through fair treatment and mobile advertising We have researched GDPR requirements and implications on our business activities controls and on our customers. There remains some uncertainty about how GDPR is interpreted To ensure a comprehensive range of services to our customers, we partner with valueand applied by organisations worldwide and the territoriality scope of the GDPR. We are added service providers (VASPs) or wireless application service providers (WASPs) to offer reviewing these matters to determine applicability and compliance requirements for our value-added or premium services to customers, using MTN’s Service Delivery Platform operations in Africa and the Middle East. and the MTN Play platform. Examples of such services include basic text information such as news and weather alerts and more advanced content services available on Governance, freedom of expression and privacy processes mobile sites, apps and the internet. Ranking Digital Rights (RDR) is a US-based civil society organisation that assesses 22 global internet, mobile and telecommunications providers on their disclosed The way MTN and our partners treat our customers is an issue we take seriously. We commitments and policies affecting freedom of expression and privacy. MTN Group and ensure that our partners observe the same stringent obligations in meeting the needs our South African operations are assessed on an annual basis. Participating in the annual of our customers fairly and responsibly, as we do. As the number of services MTN offers RDR Corporate Accountability Index offers MTN a roadmap to operate services that subscribers continues to increase, it is important that customers are empowered by respect and protect human rights. We have begun to use the RDR index as a guideline to being aware of the costs they incur, the services they use and how to control and remove improve our internal and external processes and consider the index to be a relevant tool access to these services. To facilitate transparency and customer control, we developed for ongoing monitoring and enhancement of our activities. a framework to ensure that our customers are treated fairly (TCF). The framework sets the mandatory requirements for implementation in key customer service processes in Our objective is to improve our performance by addressing the issues raised through the all MTN operations. Implementation of TCF requires that customers authenticate their RDR report. This is a phased process, and where possible, RDR’s indicators were aligned to access to any third party platform and MTN service, confirmation is received about existing process enhancements already being undertaken by MTN South Africa. In 2018, the services customers wish to subscribe to by opting-in twice, ensuring users can set this included the implementation of a privacy compliance programme (to be completed “do not disturb” messages to restrict promotional or unsolicited messages, providing in 2019) and the establishment of an information privacy office to deliver sustainable subscription renewal notifications, and supporting users’ requests to unsubscribe from privacy compliance methods to all stakeholders including shareholders, customers, services using all reasonable terms such as “cancel”, “stop”, etc. Welcome messages are regulators, third parties and employees. Information officers have been appointed to sent for various activities including when SIM cards and subscriptions are activated, and ensure compliance with the conditions of lawful processing of personal information and when customers roam on other networks. This assures us that our customers are aware to maintain MTN’s pledge to collect, use and share information responsibly. of activities on their handsets and can notify MTN in the event of any concerns regarding possible fraudulent activity. Customers who accept free trials will have control of whether they want to subscribe to the services at the end of the trial period. Controls are also MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 35 º º º º º Ethics and human rights º º º Digital human rights continued defined for limiting the number of charge attempts per day per service for each customer. GSMA is a member of the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), which is dedicated to To ensure that our customers understand their rights and are treated fairly, each of our combating the availability of child sexual abuse content online. MTN commenced direct country operations can use market-relevant and widely understood words and language membership application discussions with IWF, subject to technical considerations, and while ensuring compliance with the overall framework. The framework is currently being we hope to conclude this process in 2019. In 2018, we participated in roundtables and implemented in our operations. reporting portal launches hosted by IWF and regulators and social service ministries in Liberia and Zambia, as part of our active support for solutions focused on reducing digital In the year under review, we have had to comply with stringent regulatory requirements access to abusive content on children. In Liberia in early 2019, we will support the work regarding mobile advertising and marketing in some of the countries in which we operate. of IWF and the Defence for Children International Liberia (DCI Liberia) by sending out Targeted advertising uses sophisticated methods to tailor advertising campaigns to text messages to all our customers alerting them of a new portal to anonymously report provide information that is helpful or relevant to customers’ interests. It is based on data online abuse of children. collected that provides insights into the personal traits of audiences, such as demographic characteristics, or their online behaviours, such as browsing or purchase history. Most targeted mobile advertising currently uses second-order proxies for targeting, such as Looking forward tracking the online or mobile web activities of consumers or using a search word as the • Group  privacy policy and digital human rights policy revisions: Updates to ensure basis for implied interest or contextual advertising. It therefore has significant implications the needs of our stakeholders with respect to privacy, freedom of expression and for the privacy of information of MTN customers. information security are met effectively will be finalised in 2019. • Digital human rights processes improvements: We will continue to improve our In response, we developed a Mobile Media Code of Conduct that binds MTN-accredited processes using the RDR Index in South Africa, and in other operations, over time. sales channels, advertisers and agencies to take the necessary steps to ensure that customers’ rights are respected in terms of advertising content and privacy. It also outlines specific principles for collecting data from individuals to ensure privacy. Those who collect information in connection with marketing communication activities must have a privacy policy providing a clear statement if collection of data is taking place. Several strict controls have been implemented to mitigate the risk of the code being breached. Some of these controls include the use of encryption and anonymisation, and ensuring that customers’ rights to opt out from receiving marketing material are codified. Protecting children online MTN is a signatory to the GSMA Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse, which works to create significant barriers to the misuse of mobile networks and services for hosting, accessing, or profiting from child sexual abuse content through a combination of technical measures, cooperation and information sharing. In 2018, we implemented a third-party software solution that enables us to block URLs hosting Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) blacklisted content across some of our internet service provider (ISP) networks. We will review and implement similar solutions that fit with our technical considerations to effectively block blacklisted URLs across our remaining networks and markets over the next few years. 36 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Environmental responsibility 37 º º º º º º Environmental responsibility º º Environmental responsibility Through the conservative use of resources and innovation, we will improve MTN’s resilience and mitigate negative environmental impacts. Contributing to the UN SDGs and UN Global Compact UN SDG Indicators UN Global Compact Principles MTN’s contribution 6.4 Water-use efficiency across all sectors • 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Green office operations • 9: Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly • IoT solutions technologies 7.1 Affordable, reliable modern energy services • 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Risk and climate change response • 9: Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly • IoT solutions technologies • Solar energy for digital and financial inclusion 12.2 Sustainable management and use of natural • 7: Support for a precautionary approach to environmental • IoT solutions resources challenges • Green office operations • 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • EMF management 13.1 Resilience and adaptive capacity to climate• 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Risk and climate change response related hazards and natural disasters • 9: Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly • IoT solutions technologies 15.7 Action to end poaching and trafficking • 9: Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly • Risk and climate change response technologies • IoT solutions 17.7 Environmentally sound technologies in • 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Risk and climate change response developing countries • IoT solutions 38 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º Environmental responsibility º º Environmental responsibility continued What we said we would do in 2018 Activity Progress Results Enable seamless deployment of IoT Examples of the solutions deployed on our solutions based on network are available in the section on IoT expansive network solutions for climate management infrastructure across operations We elected to continue applying existing Finalise group country policies, and instead increased our environmental policy focus on our most material environmental impact area, namely energy consumption Initiatives to manage the use of energy, Solar-powered rural sites Complete phase 2 of water, paper and waste outputs is now an green office programme ongoing operational aspect of in a number In Ghana, Nigeria and South Africa, the implementation of of countries. See Greening office operations Huawei’s RuralStar, an innovative solar-powered network solution for remote rural areas, has enabled MTN to avoid diesel use and GHG emissions while supporting our goals of digital inclusion and Legend BRIGHTer lives for our customers. Completed In progress: on schedule In progress: behind schedule Not achieved MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 39 º º º º º º Environmental responsibility º º Energy and climate Our strategy The top risks we face are: •• Severe and variable weather events which may impact our infrastructure. Events such as extreme variation in precipitation, water shortages, increased lightning severity and Climate change and the associated physical, regulatory, heatwaves can directly damage sensitive equipment and network sites. Such events economic and social impacts are already presenting can also disrupt our access to energy or prevent site access. Environmental events in other parts of the world may affect our suppliers, resulting in loss of production time or material risks and opportunities across the world. MTN equipment shortages. operates in emerging markets in Africa and the Middle East, •• Regulatory impacts result from the introduction of climate change-related legislation. The South African National GHG Emissions Reporting Regulations were several of which are also classified as least developed by published and promulgated in 2017, effective from 2018. This requires companies the UN. These countries traditionally have fewer economic which have operational control over certain activities which exceed specific thresholds and social support resources to build their resilience and to register their facilities and to report GHG emissions from those activities annually by 31 March for the preceding calendar year. MTN South Africa submitted its first report to mitigate the impacts of significant environmental events. the Department of Environmental Affairs. We therefore recognise the importance of reducing our •• Physical and regulatory and other risks may result in financial costs to MTN. The impact on the environment, and to develop solutions that finalisation of the Carbon Tax Bill in 2018, effective in mid-2019, will impact our South African operations. The impact is currently calculated as not material. This may change can reduce these challenges. as tax rates increase and incentives to power operations from renewable energy are reduced over time. Other MTN operations that report potential carbon tax regulations Energy sources and management include Cameroon and Guinea-Conakry. Global and national energy security and Our network infrastructure consumes approximately 96% of the total energy we use. We pricing dynamics also pose financial risks. Some loss of revenue may occur if technical consume energy from diesel, gas, coal and hydro-powered national grids, and directly sites affected by extreme weather events are not operational for a prolonged period, generate energy from solar and wind. and if other sites are unable to serve our customers. Our strategy to mitigate our climate impact is to continually seek opportunities to extract energy efficiencies where possible and to maintain investment in renewable sources of energy. Other initiatives such as those related to the IoT and prepaid solar energy systems What we did for customers also allow us to leverage digital technologies to support the growth of Risk and climate change response green economies. Our response to climate change mitigation, adaptation and resilience is twofold. First, we continually seek to mitigate the negative impacts associated with our business activities. Energy and climate risks Second, we aim to improve our adaptive capacity to climate change-related risks. Our business is affected by physical, financial and regulatory climate change-related risks that vary in form and severity. Risk monitoring is undertaken by energy and We mitigate our negative impacts by continually seeking efficiencies in our network carbon champions in each of our operations, and mitigation and adaptation solutions technologies, site construction and operations, replacing inefficient and old products with are identified through this process. Monthly reports on these risks and our energy more efficient equipment and solutions, and by investing in renewable energy sources consumption and GHG emissions are consolidated and reported using the group risk for sites owned and operated by MTN (CDP Scope 1 and 2 activity). Monitoring energy management framework. consumption on an ongoing basis and analysing consumption trends in each operation also 40 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º Environmental responsibility º º Energy and climate continued helps us identify any problems that may drive sudden increases in reported consumption. change management aspirations, and to assess the energy efficiency programmes To date, alternative energy and energy efficiency solutions have been implemented in more in place and scheduled for implementation. Our tower partners place considerable than 12 000 MTN-owned sites and in more than 6 000 leased sites. We undertook a number importance on energy efficiency as this can help reduce their operating costs, but several of impactful initiatives in 2018, some of which are described below. barriers may limit sites in remote areas from always using alternative energy options. Approximately 5 000 of sites leased by MTN are powered by renewable energy. In Nigeria, our high energy requirements coupled with a lack of reliable grid power drove us to seek access to alternative sources. One of our largest switches and data centres, in We have commenced exploratory discussions with more tower management companies Ojota, requires approximately 2 520 000 kWh of electricity each month. Working with an and equipment manufacturers and suppliers on ways of working together to enhance the independent power producer, we installed a 5,5 megawatt (MW) gas-powered generating efficiency of our sites and help us meet our objective of increasing the use of renewable system that now meets the total energy needs of this centre. This and low-carbon energy. This engagement forms part of our new saving accounts for approximately 17% of MTN-owned site emissions energy strategy, which we aim to finalise in 2019. in Nigeria. It also eliminates the use of about 500 000 litres of diesel per month, which accounts for approximately 20% of total MTN-owned site IoT solutions for climate management diesel consumption in Nigeria, on average. The cost per kWh for gas is According to the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), ICT can also less than that of diesel power generation. enable solutions to 21st century challenges. During the year under review, our key focus area was to develop a clear vision for MTN’s In many of the countries in which we operate, achieving universal The gas-powered system at our future participation in IoT and articulate a cohesive strategy to network coverage remains a problem. Several challenges result in this Ojota switch now helps us reduce achieve this vision. Our key priorities were to implement a proof of situation, including the cost of building towers in remote areas and concept solution, develop knowledge in predictive analytics, and show emissions by the lack of sufficient or reliable power. This prevents digital inclusivity 1 358 tCO2e customers that we are able to realise IoT use cases and to translate and socio-economic development. Solutions that are independent of these to their specific contexts. We also began to look for key partners grid and diesel power, that have a smaller physical footprint and quick to work with across the value chain and across various markets. deployment times, use low-power equipment, and require less capital investment enable us to meet this challenge. For example, in Ghana, per month We implemented small-scale projects in several countries. In South the implementation of Huawei’s RuralStar solar-powered masts have Africa, which is under constant threat of droughts, utility providers helped reduce operating costs by around 40% and avoid 71 tCO2e per year. In Nigeria have been facing infrastructure and other challenges such as unmonitored dam and RuralStar is being used to connect people in rural areas, eliminating the need for them to tank levels, leakages, inadequacy of supplies to meet demand and unlawful water usage. often walk to distant areas to make calls. Successful implementations have seen greater Monitoring these challenges at a large scale can significantly improve the water supply than anticipated increases in voice and data traffic. We aim to implement this initiative at conditions in the country. MTN South Africa is currently developing a monitoring solution, nine more sites. which will be deployed as a proof of concept solution initially. The solution which will provide dam and tank level monitoring and reporting in real time and will provide alerts Partner engagements on energy and climate and information for analytical purposes. We lease 26 768 base station sites from tower management companies in seven countries, representing 42% of our network. The most challenging aspect of reducing our Scope 3 In many countries in which MTN operates, animal theft and poaching are serious emissions (which are the Scope 1 and 2 emissions of our partners and suppliers) is the problems leading to increased costs of farm management, operational inefficiencies and limited influence we have on their adoption of energy efficiencies and renewable energy in the case of poaching, loss of life to endangered species. MTN Nigeria continues to interventions. We constantly engage with our tower management partners to set climate offer solutions for animal tracking and management. MTN South Africa is testing a proof of concept solution for livestock management encompassing geo-fencing of animals, MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 41 º º º º º º Environmental responsibility º º Energy and climate continued with near real-time visibility of each animal, health management and data analysis. This capability will mitigate stock losses, improve farm management and empower farmers with actionable insights for quicker responses. Electricity not purchased 38 250 MWh “We are only beginning to scratch the surface of the capabilities that IoT can deliver in nature conservation, and in preserving the lives of the custodians of our wildlife heritage.” Mariana Kruger, general manager: products and solutions at MTN Business Vehicle and fleet monitoring solutions are already offered in a number of our operations. 21 845 kl Diesel not used In 2018, a vehicle asset tracking solution was launched in Iran. Advanced GPS technology provides users with control of their fleets remotely. The system tracks features such as dispatch management, driver behaviour, axle load, fuel consumption, temperature management, repair and project scheduling, ensuring that fuel is utilised efficiently and the lifespan of vehicles is maintained. Our impact Our total GHG emissions amounted to 2 131 042 tCO2e in 2018 (up 6% from 2017). Energy consumption and emissions at head offices and regional buildings are comparatively low and not material to the group consolidated outputs, but are included in our CDP reports. GHG avoided Our cumulative savings since we first consolidated measurements of our investments in and reduced 71 772 tCO e energy efficiencies and alternative energy in 2011 are depicted alongside. 2 GJ energy savings 826 372 GJ 42 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º Environmental responsibility º º Energy and climate continued Information on our impact since 2014 is available in the sustainability performance section of this report. GJ energy and GHG emission by facility type GHG emissions GHG emissions avoided ◗ GJ ◗ tCO2e (tCO2e) (tCO2e) 20 000 000 2 500 000 2 500 2 000 000 15 000 000 2 000 1 500 000 10 000 000 1 500 1 000 000 1 000 5 000 000 500 000 500 0 0 16 745 130 1 738 666 2 011 642 290 135 0 2 131 042 2 006 248 2 188 1 529 Base stations Data centres, 2018 2017 switches and hubs 2018 2017 GHG intensity per subscriber Total energy consumption Total electricity consumption (tCO2e/ (GJ) (MWh) subscriber) 20 000 000 2 000 000 0,010 15 000 000 1 500 000 0,008 0,006 10 000 000 1 000 000 0,004 5 000 000 500 000 0,002 0 0 0,000 19 544 846 19 095 879 1 666 346 1 372 017 0,0091 0,0091 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 43 º º º º º º Environmental responsibility º º Energy and climate continued Total electricity saved (MWh) Total diesel consumption (kℓ) Total diesel reduced (kℓ) (Megawatt (Kilolitres) (Kilolitres) hour) 1 200 400 000 5 000 350 000 1 000 4 000 300 000 800 250 000 3 000 600 200 000 150 000 2 000 400 100 000 200 50 000 1 000 0 0 0 591 1 026 362 724 374 704 4 030 317 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number of new sites powered by renewable energy sources (solar, solar hybrid, and The reasons for increased energy consumption in 2018 include the following: natural gas) implemented • Annual Scope 1 emissions have decreased due to an overall decrease in diesel consumption in various countries where operations are replacing the use of diesel with grid electricity, as grid supplies become more stable. Scope 3 emissions have also increased as a result of our strategy to 500 outsource network sites and leasing sites from tower management companies. This has resulted in a general decrease in our Scope 1 emissions, and an associated increase in Scope 3 emissions. 400 • Scope 2 emissions have increased by approximately 17% due to increased energy requirements in 14 countries. This increase is mainly driven by the growing number of network sites and a general 300 increase in electricity requirements for both existing infrastructure and for ongoing investments in 200 4G sites, which are more power intensive. 100 Although the number of new renewable energy sites implemented in 2018 was less than the number of sites implemented in 2017, GHG savings/avoidance of 2 188 tCO2e was realised, compared to 0 1 529 tCO2e in 2017. Savings/avoidance depends on the type of site at which alternative energy is 64 459 used (eg larger savings are realised from initiatives at switches or hubs compared to base stations). 2018 2017 44 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º Environmental responsibility º º Environmental resources Our strategy targets and initiatives to undertake the most impactful projects (shown in the graph alongside). We apply the precautionary principle towards managing 2018 our environmental impacts. Environmental management In Guinea-Bissau, Cameroon and Ivory Coast, the construction of office policies in our various countries of operation ensure buildings using solutions that improve the that we remain compliant with national laws and environmental performance has enabled us to reduce our impact and improve resilience regulations. We also expect our suppliers to support our upfront. We continued to focus on ways to Green office initiatives environmental objectives, by conducting their business in reduce consumption of paper and toners, with savings identified in Afghanistan, ◗ Energy 18% ◗ Travel 4% a responsible manner. Our environmental positions and Cameroon, Cyprus, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, ◗ Waste 16% ◗ Green events 5% expectations of suppliers are available on our website . Iran, Kenya and Nigeria. Improvements in ◗ Paper and toner 19% ◗ Awareness 21% waste management practices by installing separation bins to facilitate recycling was ◗ Water 3% To ensure electromagnetic frequency (EMF) safety of our cellular masts and of the handsets we distribute, we monitor the latest international research and scientific implemented in Afghanistan, Ghana and publications on EMF. We require that our base station operations do not exceed the EMF Swaziland. We continue to make use of creative ways to increase awareness among staff on ways to reduce their consumption of exposure guidelines set out by the International Commission on Non-ionizing Radiation energy, paper, water, etc and increased the number of campaigns in 2018. Protection (ICNIRP). We only distribute mobile handsets approved for electrical and electromagnetic safety by the national communications authority of each country in Managing electronic and electrical waste (e-waste) in emerging markets is a challenge, which we operate. Authorities require these products to be compliant with Electrical as the ecosystem of handlers and recyclers, along with regulatory participation, is largely Safety Testing Standard EN50191 and the European Standard for Safety of Battery immature. Where possible, we ensure that e-waste is diverted to responsible handlers Chargers ENE03352-29 standard, international specifications and country-specific who either extract valuable components or dispose of it in accordance with standards regulations. MTN branded devices also undergo safety tests such as Electromagnetic such as ISO 14001, ISO 18001 or SERI R2. In 2018 we handed over 272 tonnes of e-waste Compatibility and Specific Absorption Rate (SAR) test which are based on the European for extraction, recycling or safe disposal. MTN South Africa worked with a specialist Telecommunication Standards Institutes (ETSI). organisation to assess the possibility of rejuvenating old lead acid batteries for reuse on the network, but test outcomes indicated this was not feasible. Our operations in GuineaWhat we did Bissau, Ivory Coast and Rwanda began an investigation into the feasibility of recycling e-waste within the country. Digitising airtime sales through customer self service and retail channels helped us reduce waste from physical card sales by 10%. Greening office operations Addressing the impacts from our use of water and of manufactured resources is managed Extended producer responsibility (EPR) is a strategy designed to hold producers liable for through implementation of the group green office toolkit, focused on internal initiatives the costs of managing their products at end of life. In Nigeria, EPR is based on Nigeria’s to conserve resources, reduce consumption, and ensure responsible recycling and waste National Environmental Standards and Regulations Enforcement Agency (NESREA) management practices. Electrical/Electronic Sector Regulation. In 2018, MTN Nigeria participated in a Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA) discussion on e-waste recycling. MTN We continued to implement activities to conserve use of energy and water in office Nigeria also provided financial support to LASEPA on e-waste policy implementation and operations, reduce the use of paper and toner, and manage the flow of waste outputs. plays an active role in industry advocacy. Based on local requirements, country operational challenges, constraints and resource availabilities, our operations set their own environmental resource management plans, MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 45 º º º º º º Environmental responsibility º º Environmental resources continued In Kenya our biodigester produces energy for catering training classes. Our impact MTN Ghana’s Y’ello goes green campaign saw staff clearing over 100 000 plastic bottles from the James Town Beach, for manufacturing into building 477 723 kWh 225 kilograms (kg) and pavement blocks. Supplier environmental impacts of electricity Our supplier code of conduct, available on our website, specifies that we expect our saved in offices of paper usage has suppliers to conduct their business activities in an environmentally responsible manner. been avoided along This includes requiring that they review the state of their workplace environments, ensuring and non-technical environmental authorisations and compliance with regulations, submitting copies of operations with associated permits and reports to MTN upon request, reducing resource consumption, preventing reductions in use of pollution and minimising waste outputs, and ensuring responsible management of print cartridges hazardous materials. To address the environmental impact of batteries used on our sites, we have now included 86 kilolitres 271,76 additional requirements in our requests for proposals from new vendors. This includes the requirement that they tightly control the levels of mercury, cadmium and lead in their products, assist with recycling through clear labelling, and ensure that on disposal, batteries are properly treated and recycled, rather than being sent for incineration or to landfill. EMF management tonnes e-waste of potable water In some of the countries in which we operate, EMF regulations are specified to ensure sent for compliance with the ICNIRP standard. In others, regulations may require compliance with usage has been recycling additional requirements. Given these regulatory variances, we wish to voluntarily comply reduced with the highest standard applicable in all our markets. We therefore commenced a review of our EMF management guidelines and application in all our operating countries. Our objective is to update internal guidelines with new, emerging and future network technologies and to ensure standardisation of compliance requirements across all operations. Looking forward •• Development of a group energy management strategy. Efficient energy use and increased use of renewable energy will reduce operating costs and our carbon footprint. This objective will be driven through the development of a group energy management strategy in 2019. •• Increase number of energy partner engagements. We aim to actively partner with companies that have technical solutions that can help us extract further energy efficiencies, or that offer innovative solutions to harnessing renewable energy for network sites. •• Update group EMF guidelines: The group EMF guideline review and compliance process will be completed in 2019. The outcomes will be used to inform the development of an EMF compliance policy. 46 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º Our workplace º Our workplace MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 47 º º º º º º º Our workplace º Our workplace Our people are at the heart of MTN’s BRIGHT strategy, What we said we would do in 2018 ensuring we maintain our innovative position. Supporting the UN SDGs and UN Global Compact We are making progress in supporting the UN SDGs and achieving the principles of the Activity Progress Results UN Global Compact. Address gender A gender diversity and inclusion UN Global Compact MTN’s representation at committee comprising executive UN SDG indicators Principles contributions various organisational management was set up. Read more levels in The inclusive workplace 5.5 Ensure women’s • 6: Elimination of • The full and effective discrimination in respect inclusive Promote employee participation and of employment and workplace We defined a holistic wellness wellbeing by creating equal opportunities occupation approach for our employees. Read practices that support for leadership at all more in Health and wellness this levels of decision making Legend 8.7 Effective measures • 3: Upholding freedom • Our to eradicate forced of expression and strategy Completed In progress: on schedule In progress: behind schedule Not achieved labour, modern recognition of right to slavery and worst collective bargaining forms of child labour • 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour • 5: Abolition of child labour 8.8 Protect labour rights • Not directly defined • Health and and promote safe wellness and secure working environments 48 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º Our workplace º Our workplace continued Our strategy Our people are at the heart of our BRIGHT strategy, ensuring that we maintain our innovative position and improve our external stakeholder relationships. MTN’s hearts and minds pillar of the BRIGHT strategy is supported by the four distinct focus areas shown MTN operates in 23 countries across Africa and the below. Middle East. We are a young, diverse company of Building a highEnabling high Embracing digital Innovative internal 18 835 people, of whom 43% are millennials. performance potential through employee-centric communications culture talent development solutions The telecommunications sector is one of the most dynamic and disruptive globally, and the ability of businesses to adapt is crucial to sustainability. Agile organisations that respond rapidly to transformative changes are the only ones that will sustain growth and ensure socio-economic development through employment. MTN has adopted an agile manifesto for our organisation, focusing on new ways of work, behaviours, employeecentric solutions and systems that ensure our resilience while offering new opportunities Ensuring that Ensuring our people Designing around Ensuring employees to our people. our employees have the correct skills employees’ are informed and are engaged and to serve the current requirements for a involved in business Ensuring that we operate an inclusive workplace reflects our support for global ethical supported to help us and future needs workplace that rewards plans and strategies imperatives. To ensure the solutions we offer meet the needs of our diverse customer realise our strategic of our customers them in a fair manner through impactful base, obtaining the perspectives of different age, gender and cultural groups is key. objectives and deliver effectively communications to stakeholders’ requirements To ensure that we understand the experiences people have while working for MTN, we assess the sustainability of our employees’ engagement annually by conducting a group MTN’s inclusive workplace standards and expectations: culture audit (GCA) survey. The survey measures 13 dimensions. These include sustainability •• MTN is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which includes the promotion of of employee engagement, understanding of MTN’s BRIGHT strategy, communications, equality and prevention of unfair discrimination. MTN’s image and competitive position, corporate integrity, direct supervisor assessments, •• In 2018, we committed to the articles of the Convention on the Elimination of all employee development, leadership, pay and benefits, retention, work organisation and forms of Discrimination against Women. efficiency, and whether employees are net promoters of MTN’s products. •• The employee conduct pledge, a part of each employee’s contract of Please also review the group’s remuneration report on page 66 of the integrated report . employment, requires employees to respect colleagues, suppliers and those we serve, regardless of gender, race, religion, culture, mental and physical abilities, and to treat them with dignity, respect and compassion. What we did Implementing focus areas of hearts and minds pillar of BRIGHT strategy In order to realise the objectives we set for enhancing the hearts and minds pillar of the BRIGHT strategy, we focused on developing a culture of high performance, enabling high potential through talent development and designing solutions centred around the needs of employees. MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 49 º º º º º º º Our workplace º Our workplace continued Our employee-centric solutions included digitisation in the workplace (eg digital onAs a digital organisation with a youthful employee base, we are keen to continue learning boarding and access to chatbot services), access to information and processes to enable from young and talented people who are our future leadership, and who will serve people to work productively (eg ensuring appropriate spans of control) and rewarding our youthful markets effectively. We recruited 33 graduates into our global graduate employees in a fair manner that is relevant to issues that they value (eg granting additional development programme, which is run across all the countries in which we operate. In South leave days). Africa, we supported the president’s call to address youth unemployment by recruiting 100 YES4Youth graduates at the group head office, and we are in the process of recruiting Assessing the culture within MTN is crucial for us to understand the sentiment around human an additional 1 000 young graduates in our local operations. resource management and to highlight areas where MTN can improve employees’ work lives. In 2018, the group recorded a 96% participation rate in the GCA. This high participation rate We identified the critical skills required to successfully meet the current and anticipated confirms that our employees value the opportunity to define their experiences of working needs of our customers. These include skills related to serving consumers, enterprise at MTN and serves as an acknowledgement that their voices matter. The results show that and wholesale customers, and developing mobile financial services and e-commerce MTN is closing the gap with the global performing norm for sustainable engagement in solutions. We began work on a detailed strategic workforce plan to address the skills telecommunications organisations, which is currently at 81%. requirements in these areas. One of the measures of GCA is that of work organisation and efficiency, which MTN is embracing the promise of AI and advanced automation solutions assesses whether our employees have a clear understanding of their job that will empower our employees in dealing with complex scenarios to responsibilities and whether the operating environment enables them to work better serve our customers and communities. Through our three-year rolling effectively. A 3% increase in employee assessments of MTN’s efforts indicates strategic workforce plan, we aim to improve the learning agility of our people that our employees believe we are increasingly structured towards enabling a and to develop staff in areas of higher cognitive, social and emotional high-performance culture. Our employee skillsets, including skills such as creativity, taking initiative, empathy, sustainable adaptability and complex information interpretation, that will complement AI We implemented an innovative internal communications strategy, using a engagement score and machine-learning capabilities. We have also focused on attracting and combination of digital and face-to-face engagements to facilitate easier retaining people and developing advanced technological skillsets to oversee increased to 78% connections between executives and employees. The GCA assessed if and manage complex systems to ensure proper use, maintain the required our BRIGHT strategy was understood and experienced in the day-to-day security considerations and comply with regulatory requirements. activities of staff. Over 75% of employees responded positively, illustrating the value of the time spent by our management in explaining and embedding Mastering the new skills required has, and will continue, to disrupt how our the strategy across MTN. Employee assessments of engagements with employees work. They need to be able to deliver solutions quickly, while leadership increased by 3% (2017: 61%) indicating our efforts to improve in 2018 taking into account ethical, regulatory and other possible consequences of internal communications had a positive impact. commercial business decisions. Employees need to undertake continuous (2017: 75%) and non-traditional forms of learning. In 2018, our employees invested Future-proofing our workplace 338 831 hours on enhancing their skills by leveraging learning and We are actively building a pool of talented employees to meet the needs of MTN and our development opportunities. Training was delivered through a combination of methods stakeholders more effectively. Our high-potential talent factory is focused on succession including web-based interfaces, classroom-based education, and on-the-job training. planning and development of existing employees, building a pipeline for future skills and Several new learning academies, focused on future technologies and their applications filling the gap of current skills requirements. We are building a healthy pool of successors for MTN, were also launched. These included training on customer value management, to support executive roles by implementing readiness succession plans. We also drove data analytics and digital solutions. awareness of the need for employees to have quality career conversations with their managers. 50 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º Our workplace º Our workplace continued based on feedback from female employees, taking into account local operating requirements. We established a data science academy to upskill existing staff and Initiatives included the commencement of a three-year women in technology programme, train new employees in leading advanced data analytics techniques appointing opinion leaders to work with human resource and management functions, a focus and disciplines. A customised and vocational course incorporates on improving leadership by women in areas in which they have traditionally been underreal MTN business objectives into the training agenda. represented and implementing female networking programmes. Health and wellness Our holistic employee wellness approach focuses on physical, emotional and spiritual health, At MTN, we foresee several new innovations and business opportunities that AI and financial wellness, and ensuring that our working environment and community engagements machine learning will bring, creating a host of new employment opportunities. We support create positive impacts for our employees. Our objectives for the year were to increase staff the increasing trend in our business for new types of teams to self-form and work together interest and participation in wellness initiatives conducted across the group and to establish on challenges and opportunities that may interest people beyond their traditional scopes a strategy for managing wellness. of work. Such activities also highlight new career paths for employees. We believe that our agile organisation initiatives will ensure that our people are at the forefront of this bold, new Across our operations, we continued to enable activities and offer services to support digital world. the wellbeing of our employees. Communication on health and wellness was conducted regularly, and included daily news, awareness of national and international wellness days, The inclusive workplace sporting events, leveraging social media hashtags with key themes on an ongoing basis MTN operates across 23 countries with varying contexts and labour laws. Improving equality (eg #FitnessFriday) and sharing advice and specialised content from our medical aid in a standard manner that is applicable locally in each of the countries in which we operate is service providers. We conducted on-site exercise classes and free annual health checka challenge that we have embraced. Gender diversity was one of our priorities in 2018, and ups, ran vaccination campaigns, offered first aid training, stress reduction and weight loss we plan to improve this on an ongoing basis. programmes, supplied ergonomic furniture and equipment and ensured healthier food options in canteens. We focused on education and support for lifestyle, communicable A gender diversity and inclusion committee, comprising several group and country and dreaded diseases, and workplace safety. In some countries we increased the types executives, was set up. The committee aims to ensure that MTN is a more inclusive place to of employee assistance services offered, eg offering financial wellness training, opening work, by advancing the representation of women, minorities and people with on-site clinics and increasing access to physiotherapy services and crèche disabilities in the workplace. facilities for working parents. At the group head office, a target of 40% of females to be recruited into We are gradually moving on from point-in-time or single interventions towards existing vacancies was set. This target was tied to executive employment ensuring our employees obtain a more holistic wellness experience, using our equity and diversity bonuses. In addition to vacancies being filled by females internal communications platforms to personalise and reinforce wellness at managerial and other levels, three female executives at the group were messages. recruited into the existing or new roles. One female was appointed as the In 2018 48% CEO of a country operation, and female candidates will now be more actively Operational health and safety is a fundamental aspect of our wellness approach. considered for other country CEO roles as these opportunities arise. In 2018, In 2018, we experienced one fatality due to a car accident and 14 workplace 48% of the graduates across our operations were female. We aim to increase injuries necessitating recovery of more than half a working day by each employee. this to 60% in 2019. Injuries were caused as a result of employees falling or slipping, being involved of the graduates across in road traffic accidents during working hours, one case of electrocution during In country operations, a number of initiatives to improve female representation our operations were maintenance, and one instance of an employee being harmed during a robbery in the workplace were implemented. Initiatives varied by country, and were female while stocks were being replenished. MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 51 º º º º º º º Our workplace º Our workplace continued Our impact We believe that our efforts to improve the workplace for our employees contributed to our award of the highest ranking in the category for Telcos to Work for in Africa, in the Employer of Choice survey in 2018. The survey, conducted by Careers in Africa and WillisTowersWatson, recognises those employers who have caught the attention of the African talent pool and that have a unique employee experience. Trends for the past five years on some of the indicators below may be reviewed in the quantitative sustainability statement of this report. •• Amount spent on employee learning and development: R270 million (2017: R252 million). •• Average training hours per employee: 17,92 (2017: 22,4). •• Percentage females: 37% (2017: 36,83%). •• Percentage females in management positions: 27,4%. •• Percentage females in succession pool: 16%. •• Percentage of females hired: 22,3%. •• Voluntary participation in employee recognition initiatives through MTN Shine programme: 57% (2017: 49%). •• Deaths: 1 (2017: 1). MTN Nigeria: The WAY •• Workplace-related injuries: 14 (2017: 34). To promote gender equality, the MTN Nigeria Y'ello Women Network Looking forward initiative, now called The WAY (Women At Y’ello), was established We will continue to drive our hearts and minds strategy, working towards organisational in 2018. This networking programme is aimed at developing wellagility, enhancing the employee experience, building a high-performance culture rounded women leaders and employees, to improve satisfaction and embracing digital employee-centric solutions. Other priorities include a focus on levels among female employees and strengthen MTN's gender workplace diversity and finalising our wellness strategy. diversity mix. The WAY also serves as a recruitment and retention tool. Indicators to assess the effectiveness of the programme include an improvement in satisfaction level among female employees (to be assessed through annual surveys), a 60:40 male to female employee ratio by 2020, while striving towards a 50:50 gender ratio in future and a 70:30 male to female employee ratio at senior management levels by 2020. A cross-functional team was established and executive sponsors nominated for programme implementation across all regions. 52 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Annual sustainability statements MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 53 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Sustainability performance in numbers The group’s business performance and plans are set out in the MTN Group Limited integrated report for the year ended 31 December 2018. The table set out below indicates MTN’s non-financial governance, environmental and social business performance in terms of South African and global protocols described in the sustainability reporting standards and guidelines at the beginning of this report. We set out our performance in terms of material indicators that provide a clear, comprehensive and useful measure of our progress quantitatively. This statement complements and extends the MTN Group statement on how we create and sustain value, as reported in the MTN Group Limited integrated report for 2018. LA indicates aspects that have been assured. The group’s limited assurance statement is available on our website . Indicator Notes Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 The workplace Total employees Number 18 835 18 931 19 989 21 804 22 204 Employee turnover % 4,53 7,9 7,2 7,8 8,3 Employees retrenched Number 151 337 330 335 752 Females •• Females % 37 37 37 37 37 •• Females at group board level Number 4 3 3 3 3 •• Females: management all levels % 27,4 Not previously Not previously Not previously Not previously reported reported reported reported •• Females in succession pool % 16 Not previously Not previously Not previously Not previously reported reported reported reported Employees unionised (South Africa) 1. % 22 22 22 16 Not previously reported Learning and development •• Spend R million 270 252 392 224 254 •• Hours per employee Hours 18 22 32 12,9 17,4 Employee culture survey results % LA 78 75 67 66 65 Employees receiving performance review % 96 95 95 100 100 54 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Sustainability performance in numbers continued Indicator Notes Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 The workplace continued Wellness and safety •• Deaths Number 1 1 3 – – •• Workplace-related serious injuries Number 14 34 22 17 12 Ethics Calls to tip-offs anonymous whistleblower line LA Number 94 119 120 128 260 Additional certified ethics officers Number 11 27 Not previously Not previously Not previously reported reported reported Disciplinary sanctions enforced Number 157 400 Not available Not available Not available •• Not guilty 9 4 Not available Not available Not available •• Counselling 4 8 Not available Not available Not available •• Verbal warning 35 76 Not available Not available Not available •• Written warning 61 87 Not available Not available Not available •• Final written warning 16 131 Not available Not available Not available •• Suspension 10 52 Not available Not available Not available •• Dismissal 20 42 Not available Not available Not available •• Pending 2 – Not available Not available Not available Supplier endorsement of supplier code of conduct Number 1 197 175 Not available Not available Not available Environment GHG emissions total Tonnes carbon 2 131 042 2 006 248 1 609 174 1 589 888 1 531 527 dioxide and equivalent (tCO2e) •• Scope 1: direct emissions 270 721 324 101 315 603 645 428 793 098 •• Scope 2: indirect emissions 973 465 806 339 755 109 651 233 595 177 •• Scope 3: indirect emissions 886 857 875 808 538 462 293 227 143 252 GHG intensity per subscriber tCO2e 0,0091 0,0091 0,0071 0,0072 0,0069 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 55 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Sustainability performance in numbers continued Indicator Notes Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Environment continued Energy savings: diesel kl 4 030 313 3 705 2 870 2 846 Alternative energy sites Number •• Cumulative to year under review 3 578 3 147 2 688 1 687 555 •• Current year under review 64 459 1 001 1 132 Included above GHG avoided tCO2e •• Cumulative to 2015 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable 29 034 •• Current year under review 2 188 1 529 833 7 947 Not applicable Green office •• E-waste Tonnes 272 216 537 535 236 •• Paper use avoided kg 225 1 617 685 15 646 15 271 Not available •• Electricity savings: non-technical operations kWh 477 723 807 181 518 023 Not available Not available •• Potable water savings kl 86 144 000 Not available Not available Not available •• General waste reduced kg 18 141 728 Not available Not available Not available •• Plastic, metal, drinks cartons avoided kg No reported 1 540 1 808 629 Not available savings Corporate social investment (CSI) and empowerment CSI (MTN foundations and CSI divisions) R million 185 172 294 335 283 Employee volunteers Number 9 181 11 027 10 459 8 209 11 562 Black economic empowerment (BEE) in South Africa Score out of 130 106,36 102,65 See “up to See “up to See “up to 2017 onwards 2016” below 2016” below 2016” below •• Ownership (20 base points; 3 bonus points) Score out of 25 25 25 See “up to See “up to See “up to 2016” below 2016” below 2016” below •• Management and control (10 base points; 1 bonus Score out of 23 15,39 13,71 See “up to See “up to See “up to point) 2016” below 2016” below 2016” below •• Skills development Score out of 20 11,73 11,87 See “up to See “up to See “up to 2016” below 2016” below 2016” below •• Enterprise and supplier development Score out of 50 42,25 40,07 See “up to See “up to See “up to 2016” below 2016” below 2016” below •• Socio-economic development Score out of 12 12 12 See “up to See “up to See “up to 2016” below 2016” below 2016” below 56 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Sustainability performance in numbers continued Indicator Notes Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Corporate social investment (CSI) and empowerment continued Black economic empowerment (BEE) South Africa up Score out of 100 See “2017 See “2017 87,83 76,6 85,72 to 2016 onwards above” onwards above” •• Ownership (20 base points; 3 bonus points) Score out of 23 See “2017 See “2017 21,28 20,7 21,34 onwards above” onwards above” •• Management and control (10 base points; 1 bonus Score out of 10 See “2017 See “2017 10,67 9,57 10,37 point) onwards above” onwards above” •• Employee equity Score out of 10 See “2017 See “2017 6,28 2,47 5,45 onwards above” onwards above” •• Skills development Score out of 17 See “2017 See “2017 5,8 3,24 8,39 onwards above” onwards above” •• Preferential procurement (20 base points; 6 bonus Score out of 20 See “2017 See “2017 20,28 20,91 19,66 points) onwards above” onwards above” •• Enterprise development Score out of 11 See “2017 See “2017 11 7,71 8,51 onwards above” onwards above” •• Socio-economic development Score out of 12 See “2017 See “2017 12 12 12 onwards above” onwards above” Notes 1. In 2017 we reported that 933 employees in MTN South Africa were unionised. This represented 22% of employees. MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 57 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 101: Foundation 1.1 Stakeholder inclusiveness •• IR: Relationships on which we rely p. 28 •• SR: Stakeholders p. 5 1.2 Sustainability context •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value p. 14 •• SR: Our sustainability approach p. 3 1.3 Materiality •• IR: About this report p. 1 •• SR: Our sustainability approach p. 6 1.4 Completeness •• IR: About this report – scope and boundaries p. 1 •• SR: About this report – scope and boundaries p. 2 1.5 Accuracy •• IR: •• SR: Sustainability performance in numbers (selected indicators are verified by external third-party organisations) p. 54 1.6 Balance •• This aspect is addressed in the integrated report in the following sections: our market context and material matters; p. 6; 8; 33; 39; what we are doing to address the opportunities; top risks to value creation; leadership and performance (chairman, 42; 44; 46 Group president and CEO and CFO statements) and key financial tables. p. 15; 16; 20; •• This aspect is also addressed in the sustainability report in the following sections: transforming economies and 24; 29; 30; 34; societies what we said we would do; what we did; ethics and human rights what we said we would do, operating 39; 40; 45; 48; context; what we did; environmental responsibility what we said we would do; energy and climate risks; what we did; 49 our workplace what we said we would do; what we did. 1.7 Clarity IR and SR: Stakeholders can find the information they require in both reports by accessing hyperlinked icons or report keys, cross-referenced tables and tables of content. Both reports avoid technical terms and where required, abbreviations, acronyms and jargon are first explained before being used in relevant sections 1.8 Comparability The group’s current and previous years’ qualitative and quantitative reports are available on www.mtn.com, allowing stakeholders to download and review reports for comparability, benchmarking against other organisations’ reports and to conduct trend analysis. Consistency in the methods used to calculate data is applied through reference to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and SAICA Financial Reporting Guides, and CDP guidelines, and emission methodologies including the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories, 2006 and The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition), among other protocols. Within the current year’s integrated and sustainability reports, any data restatements are indicated as notes to quantitative statements. 1.9 Reliability •• IR and SR: Certain quantitative aspects presented in both reports have been subject to a limited assurance review p. 1 as indicated in GRI 1.5 above •• SR: About this report – data collection 1.10 Timeliness •• IR and SR: The group’s annual reports, and interim and quarterly reports (financial) are published on the group’s website on a regular, scheduled basis •• SR: the group’s detailed CDP report is submitted to CDP each year within the timeframes set by CDP 58 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 102: General disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation MTN Group Limited 102-2 Activities, brands, products, https://www.mtn.com/what-we-do/ and services 102-3 Location of headquarters MTN Group Limited is located at 216 14th Avenue, Fairland, 2195, South Africa 102-4 Location of operations MTN operates in 23 countries in Africa and the Middle East. https://www.mtn.com/contact/#contact-countries 102-5 Ownership and legal form IR: How we manage our business. MTN Group Limited is publicly owned entity whose shared are listed on the p. 5 Johannesburg Stock Exchange 102-6 Markets served MTN operates in 23 countries in Africa and the Middle East. https://www.mtn.com/contact/#contact-countries 102-7 Scale of the organisation •• IR: Total number of employees: how our strategy is sustaining value; total number of operations: who we are; key p. 3; 15; 46; 4 financial tables net revenue and total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity; quantity of products or services provided (as MTN Group does not provides tertiary services, one customer can purchase multiple products and services, and this indicator is therefore described by the number of customers, rather than the number of products and services provided in the section on where we operate) 102-8 Information on employees •• IR: This information is included in various sections of the report including in the hearts and minds section on how p. 13; 15; 23; and other workers our strategy is creating value, relationships we on which we rely to create value and remuneration report 28; 59; 66 •• SR: Our workplace p. 48 102-9 Supply chain MTN’s suppliers are broadly categorised into three main areas: commercial and indirect (eg logistics, business consulting, device suppliers, etc), information technology (eg infrastructure and systems), and networks (eg core and transmission solutions, etc). We have approximately 160 group suppliers, with agreements to cover requirements for multiple locations across MTN’s footprint. Our local operations also contract local suppliers who offer products and services usually required for specific markets. In total, we have approximately 13 000 suppliers. MTN’s suppliers are located globally. Key network suppliers are located in Europe and China, while our local supplier base is spread across Africa and the Middle East Sector-specific characteristics include the fact that automation remains low and the use of labour therefore remains key to the operations of the supply chain, and that the telecommunications supply chain is subject to stringent custom regulations on imported items. Given the nature of network items required, we often procure products specifically for our requirements, and therefore these are not classified as off-the-shelf. MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 59 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 102: General disclosures continued 102-10 Significant changes to the From a supply chain perspective, we have strongly focused on the usage of aged inventory. Planning frameworks were organisation and its supply developed to enable improved collaboration between supply chain and business functions, allowing use of existing chain in-country inventory as a priority. We restructured our procurement teams to better serve our internal customers, separating the technology team into IT and network category management functions. This provides more focused expertise from a category management perspective. We made significant progress in the areas of digitalisation, with an increased emphasis on delivering data through dashboards, using supply chain control towers to deliver data immediately. From an organisation perspective, the group disposed of its operations in Cyprus in September 2018. 102-11 Precautionary principle or •• SR: Environmental resources p. 45 approach •• There has been a strong focus to reduce shipping costs and to improve on the environmental impacts on imported products. This driven by collaborating with major suppliers on planning initiatives which enable operations to shift from the use of air-based shipments to sea for large shipments. We have also started several initiatives through collaboration with strategic suppliers, mainly focused on innovation and joint go-to-market activities to develop products and services. 102-12 External initiatives •• IR: About this report: non-financial information p. 1 •• SR: About this report: reporting standards and guidelines p. 1 •• MTN Group is a member of the Chartered Institute of Procurement and Supply (CIPS) 102-13 Membership of associations The group is also a member of GSMA and the National Business Institute (NBI), and supports the work of the International Telecommunications Union 102-14 Statement from senior •• IR: The view of the chairman p. 40 decision-maker •• SR: Group president and CEO on sustainability p9 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and •• IR: Our market context and material matters; what we are doing to address the opportunities; top risks to value p. 6; 8; 33 opportunities creation p. 16; 30; 40; 49 •• SR: Key impacts, risks and opportunities are summarised in the strategy and context sections on how MTN is transforming economies and societies, ensuring ethics and supporting human rights, ensuring environmental responsibility and sustaining a productive workplace 102-16 Organisation’s values, •• https://www.mtn.com/who-we-are/about-us/values/ principles, standards, norms •• https://www.mtn.com/who-we-are/ethics/ethics-positions/ of behaviour and codes of conduct/ethics 60 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 102: General disclosures continued 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and •• SR: Ethics p. 30; 55 concerns about ethics The group’s whistleblower line (called tip-offs anonymous) is available to employees, suppliers and any external party wishing to report concerns safely and anonymously. Contact details for this service are located on the company’s websites, and internally, is communicated via a number of mechanisms including desktop screensavers, dedicated regular campaigns, newsletters, etc •• All ethics-related policies indicate the appropriate route to follow with regard to the reporting of ethics policy breaches by employees ie line manager/head of function/group chief officer or the whistleblowing line (anonymous@tip-offs.net) •• A dedicated mailbox (MTNGroupEthics@mtn.com) is available for all staff to raise issues of concern or ask advice privately and where engagement is managed confidentially. Issues raised are investigated and outcomes are reported •• Internal awareness and training initiatives are conducted in all operations 102-18 Governance structure IR: Governance (including committees) p. 52 102-19 Delegating authority SR: Governance p. 5 102-20 Executive-level responsibility SR: Governance p. 5 for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on •• IR: Relationships on which we rely to create value p. 28 economic, environmental, •• SR: Our sustainability approach p. 6 and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest IR: Governance (including committees) p. 52 governance body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest IR: Governance (including committees) p. 52 governance body 102-24 Nominating and selecting the IR: Governance (including committees) p. 52 highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest •• IR: Governance (including committees) directors’ dealings p. 52 •• SR: Ethics our strategy p. 50 •• https://www.mtn.com/who-we-are/ethics/ethics-positions/ 102-26 Role of highest governance IR: Governance (including committees) p. 52 body in setting purpose, values, and strategy MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 61 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 102: General disclosures continued 102-27 Collective knowledge of IR: Our board of directors p. 62 highest governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest IR: Governance (including committees) p. 52 governance body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing •• IR: Governance (including committees) social and ethics committee p. 57 economic, environmental, •• The committee considers sustainability matters including the group’s compliance with ISO 14001, safety, health and social impacts and environment, consumer protection laws and King IV Code, social, environmental and ethical recommendations, employment equity, the annual integrated business report and sustainability report, sponsorships, corporate social investment activities, and reviews social and ethics-related policies 102-30 Effectiveness of risk •• IR: Top risks to value creation; governance (including committees) – risk management, compliance and corporate p. 34; 56 management processes governance committee 102-31 Review of economic, •• IR: Governance (including committees) – social and ethics committee p. 57 environmental, and social •• See 102-29 above topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s •• SR: About this report – directors’ responsibility; our sustainability approach p. 1; 5 role in sustainability •• See 102-29 above reporting 102-33 Communicating critical •• See response for 102-17 p. 56 concerns •• IR: Risk management, compliance and corporate governance committee 102-34 Nature and total number of Due to sensitivities as a result of regulatory, legal or restrictions, the number and exact nature of critical concerns that p. 6; 28; 33 critical concerns were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanisms used to address and resolve critical concerns cannot be disclosed. Using the guidelines set out in GRI 101: Foundations, disclosure on critical concerns is included in the IR, in the sections on our market context and material matters, relationships on which we rely to create value and top risks to value creation 102-35 Remuneration policies IR: Remuneration – remuneration and human resources committee p. 59 102-36 Process for determining IR: Remuneration – remuneration and human resources committee p. 59 remuneration 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in IR: Remuneration – remuneration and human resources committee p. 59 remuneration 102-38 Annual total compensation Not available ratio 62 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 102: General disclosures continued 102-39 Percentage increase in IR: Remuneration – single figure disclosure p. 88 annual total compensation ratio 102-40 List of stakeholder groups IR: Relationships on which we rely to create value p. 28 102-41 Collective bargaining SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 54 agreements 102-42 Identifying and selecting IR: Relationships on which we rely to create value p. 28 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder IR: Relationships on which we rely to create value p. 28 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns IR: Relationships on which we rely to create value p. 28 raised 102-45 Entities included in the IR: How we manage our business p. 5 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and •• IR: Our market context and material matters p. 6 topic boundaries •• SR: Our sustainability approach p. 6 102-47 List of material topics •• IR: Our market context and material matters p. 6 •• SR: Our sustainability approach p. 6 102-48 Restatements of information Within the current year’s integrated and sustainability reports, any data restatements are indicated as notes to quantitative statements 102-49 Changes in reporting IR: About this report p. 1 102-50 Reporting period 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report 31 December 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions Investor.Relations@mtn.com and sustainability@mtn.com regarding the report MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 63 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 102: General disclosures continued 102-54 Claims of reporting in This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index The GRI context index is presented as a complete report within the group’s sustainability report. It is also presented as a PDF extract in the sustainability reports section on www.mtn.com. It includes each GRI standard and title referenced, and provides more information or references page number(s) or URL(s) where the required information can be found 102-56 External assurance See GRI 1.5 GRI 201: Economic performance 103-1 Explanation of the material •• IR: About this report; our market context and material matters; relationships on which we rely to create value p. 1; 6; 28 topic and its boundary •• SR: Our sustainability approach materiality p. 6 103-2 The management approach •• IR: What we are doing to address the opportunities; how our strategy is creating value; how our strategy is p. 8; 12; 14; 34 and its components sustaining value; top risks to value creation p. 14; 16; 28; •• SR: This aspect is addressed under the strategy and context descriptions of the sections on transforming economies 30; 38; 40; 48; and societies; ethics and human rights; environmental responsibility and our workplace 49 For compliance with international standards and widely recognised initiatives to topics, see GRI 101-1.8 above Where goals and targets are indicated in the IR and the SR, these are sometimes indicated as timebound (eg for the upcoming financial year) or time-range bound (eg medium or long term) Responsibility for managing the topic is indicated in the IR: how our strategy is creating value 103-3 Evaluation of the Mechanisms for monitoring the effectiveness of the management approach is undertaken using the following: monthly management approach MSR and risk and compliance or qualitative and quantitative dashboards for executive committee assessments, quarterly reports to board committees, annual external auditing of key selected material aspects, ongoing external performance ratings by the JSE, investors/shareholders/analysts/ratings organisations, participating in benchmarking programmes undertaken by independent third-party organisations and ongoing stakeholder engagement as indicated in GRI 101 1.1 201-1 Direct economic value IR: How our strategy is creating value; key financial tables p. 12; 46 generated and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and SR: Environmental responsibility – energy and climate risks p. 40 other risks and opportunities due to climate change 201-3 Defined benefit plan IR: Not available obligations and other retirement plans 64 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) 201-4 Financial assistance received In some countries, standard government rebates to encourage investment in national skills development and training from government is available to employers. In South Africa, for example, rebates at rates determined by the government are available on payments made in terms of the Skills Development Levies Act (where companies are registered with the South African Revenue Service, have a payroll above a government-determined threshold, and make payments of 1% of monthly payroll costs to the national skills development levy) GRI 202: Market presence 103-1 Explanation of the material See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above topic and its boundary 103-2 The management approach See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level Not available wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior Not available management hired from the local community GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 103-1 Explanation of the material See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above topic and its boundary 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above and its components •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above p. 14; 16; 18; 26 management approach •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value; best customer experience; returns and efficiency; technology excellence 203-1 Infrastructure investments •• See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above p. 14; 16; 18; 26 and services supported •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value; best customer experience; returns and efficiency; technology excellence 203-2 Significant indirect economic •• See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above p. 14; 16; 18; 26 impacts •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value; best customer experience; returns and efficiency; technology excellence MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 65 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 204: Procurement practices 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 29 topic and its boundary •• IR: Relationships on which we rely to create value 103-2 The management approach See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 204-1 Proportion of spending on This information is only available for MTN operations in South Africa. See SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 56 local suppliers GRI 205: Anti-corruption 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above topic and its boundary •• https://www.mtn.com/who-we-are/ethics/our-codes-of-ethics/ 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 15 and its components •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value (see hearts and minds pillar) p. 33 •• SR: Ethics •• https://www.mtn.com/who-we-are/ethics/ethics-positions/ 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above p. 56 management approach •• IR: Governance 205-1 Operations assessed for Not available risks related to corruption 205-2 Communication and training •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value (see hearts and minds pillar) p. 15 about anti-corruption •• SR: Ethics – what we did p. 30 policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of SR: Sustainability performance in numbers. Note that this includes all incidents classified as ethics issues, which p. 55 corruption and actions taken includes incidents of corruption and actions taken GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour 103-1 Explanation of the material See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above topic and its boundary 103-2 The management approach See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above and its components 66 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 206-1 Legal actions for antiIn the matter relating to Turkcell’s alleged grievances arising from its unsuccessful bid to obtain a mobile licence in competitive behaviour, Iran, and the awarding of that licence to MTN Irancell in 2005, MTN continues to be of the strong view that there is no anti-trust, and monopoly legal merit to Turkcell’s claim and MTN will continue to vigorously oppose it. Further developments on this matter are practices communicated in the recent press section of www.mtn.com GRI 301: Materials 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 38 topic and its boundary •• SR: Environmental responsibility 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 45 and its components •• SR: Environmental responsibility environmental resources •• The group’s position on networks and the environment is available on www.mtn.com 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 45 management approach SR: Environmental responsibility environmental resources 301-2 Materials used by weight or This information is only available for MTN’s use of energy. See SR: Energy and climate p. 43 volume 301-3 Recycled input materials MTN procures materials and does not manufacture materials. used GRI 302: Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 38 topic and its boundary •• SR: Environmental responsibility 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 40 and its components •• SR: Environmental responsibility – energy and climate •• The group’s position on networks and the environment is available on www.mtn.com •• The group’s activities on energy management is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 40 management approach •• SR: Environmental responsibility – energy and climate •• The group’s activities on energy management is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 302-1 Energy consumption within •• SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 55 the organisation •• The group’s activities on energy management is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 67 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) 302-2 Energy consumption outside •• SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 55 of the organisation •• The group’s activities on energy management is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 302-3 Energy intensity •• SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 55 •• The group’s activities on energy management is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 302-4 Reduction of energy •• SR: Environmental responsibility – energy and climate; sustainability performance in numbers p. 44; 55 consumption •• The group’s activities on energy management is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com GRI 305: Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 40 topic and its boundary •• SR: Environmental responsibility – energy and climate 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 40 and its components •• SR: Environmental responsibility – energy and climate •• The group’s position on networks and the environment is available on www.mtn.com •• The group’s activities on energy management is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 40 management approach •• SR: Environmental responsibility – energy and climate •• The group’s activities on emissions is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 305-1 Direct (scope 1) •• SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 55 GHG emissions •• The group’s activities on emissions is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) •• SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 55 GHG emissions •• The group’s activities on emissions is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) •• SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 55 GHG emissions •• The group’s activities on emissions is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 305-4 GHG emissions intensity •• SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 44; 55 •• The group’s activities on emissions is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions •• SR: Environmental responsibility – energy and climate; sustainability performance in numbers p. 44; 55 •• The group’s activities on emissions is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting •• This is included as reported for GRI 305-5 substances (ODS) •• The group’s activities on emissions is submitted to CDP and published on www.mtn.com GRI 306: Effluents and waste 103-1 Explanation of the material •• As a tertiary services organisation, MTN does not emit significant effluent. MTN’s main waste impacts are not p. 45 topic and its boundary deemed high impact (material). Waste results from the use of electronic and electrical equipment, and paper, plastic, water and tin/metals consumed in office operations •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above •• SR: Environmental responsibility – environmental resources 68 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 45 and its components •• SR: Environmental responsibility – energy and climate •• The group’s position on networks and the environment is available on www.mtn.com 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 45 management approach •• SR: Environmental responsibility – environmental resources 306-2 Waste by type and disposal •• SR: Environmental responsibility – environmental resources: greening operations p. 45 method 306-3 Significant spills While there have been some isolated instances of small diesel spillages, MTN did not experience any significant diesel spillages in 2018 306-4 Transport of hazardous The most material waste subject to this convention is electronic and electrical waste (e-waste or WEEE). In South waste Africa, e-waste is processed locally to the greatest possible extent, by MTN’s e-waste handlers. E-waste handed over by MTN for recycling or safe disposal is processed by handlers and recyclers that have been subject to due diligence, and/or are certified in terms of national regulations and/or global standards. Supplier take-back agreements are in place in Cameroon, and safe disposal guidelines for batteries have been implemented in Iran. A public-private partnership addressing extended producer responsibilities has been developed in Nigeria. A new programme for e-waste management in Ivory Coast has been announced in partnership with authorised handlers and recyclers 306-5 Water bodies affected by MTN predominantly draws water from local authority and municipal sources, for consumption in office and data water discharges and/or centre facilities. Grey water is used in some operations for bathroom facilities; in other instances water is discharged runoff back into municipal systems GRI 307: Environmental compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 45 topic and its boundary •• SR: Environmental responsibility – environmental resources 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 45 and its components •• SR: Environmental responsibility – energy and climate •• The group’s position on networks and the environment is available on www.mtn.com 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-1 above p. 45 management approach •• SR: Environmental responsibility – environmental resources •• Compliance is assessed by local regulatory authorities 307-1 Non-compliance with When cell masts are erected, communities may sometimes express concerns about potential effects from environmental laws and electromagnetic frequencies. While we ensure we remain compliant with local environmental laws and regulations, regulations there may be instances where communities may challenge such installations MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 69 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 401: Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above topic and its boundary 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 15; 28 and its components •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value (see hearts and minds pillar); relationships on which we rely to create value p. 49 •• SR: Our workplace 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach •• IR: Remuneration – remuneration and human resources committee, remuneration report p.59; 66 401-1 New employee hires and SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 54 employee turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Not available employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Maternity and paternity leave is available to employees in some of the countries in which we operate. In some instances, the amount of leave exceeds minimum statutory requirements GRI 402: Labour/management relations 103-1 Explanation of the material •• Employees are free to associate socially, politically, religiously or otherwise, as well as join any bargaining council topic and its boundary without fear of victimisation. Our code of conduct enables us to correctly manage situations where an employee may infringe on these rights. •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above •• SR: Our workplace – our strategy 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 15; 28 and its components •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value (see hearts and minds pillar); relationships on which we rely to create value p. 49 •• SR: Our workplace 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 402-1 Minimum notice periods Employees are notified as soon as possible of restructuring processes within the organisation if considered. This regarding operational follows a consultation processes. Once an employee has been confirmed for retrenchment, he/she is given at least changes one month’s notice. This notice period may even be longer than one month, as determined by the various labour laws (which always state the minimum notice period) applicable in the countries in which MTN operates 70 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 103-1 Explanation of the material See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above topic and its boundary 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 28 and its components •• IR: Relationships on which we rely to create value p. 49 •• SR: Our workplace 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 403-1 Workers’ representation in Not available p. 51 formal joint management– worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of SR: Our workplace health and wellness; sustainability performance in numbers p. 51; 55 injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and education 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above topic and its boundary •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value p. 14 •• SR: Our workplace – our strategy p. 49 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 15; 28 and its components •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value (see hearts and minds pillar); relationships on which we rely to create value p. 50 •• SR: Our workplace – future-proofing our workplace 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 404-1 Average hours of training per SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 54 year per employee 404-2 Programmes for upgrading SR: Our workplace – future-proofing our workplace p. 50 employee skills and transition assistance programmes MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 71 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) 404-3 Percentage of employees SR: Sustainability performance in numbers p. 54 receiving regular performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above topic and its boundary •• IR: How we create value; social and ethics committee p. 13; 57 •• SR: Our workplace – the inclusive workplace p. 49 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 15; 28 and its components •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value (see hearts and minds pillar); relationships on which we rely to create value p. 51 •• SR: Our workplace – future-proofing our workplace 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 405-1 Diversity of governance •• IR: Governance – board diversity p. 54 bodies and employees •• SR: Our workplace – future-proofing our workplace p. 51 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Not available remuneration of women to men GRI 406: Non-discrimination 103-1 Explanation of the material MTN believes that diversity and non-discrimination is both a moral imperative and a source of competitive advantage, topic and its boundary as it enables innovation and access to a wider range of experiences and skills. The group social and ethics committee’s terms of reference includes monitoring the company’s activities with respect to its standing in terms of the International Labour Organisation Protocol on decent work and working conditions See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 15; 28 and its components •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value (see hearts and minds pillar); relationships on which we rely to create value p. 51 •• SR: Our workplace – the inclusive workplace 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 406-1 Incidents of discrimination This information is not available separately: it is included in ethics data in the SR: Sustainability performance in p. 55 and corrective actions taken numbers 72 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 103-1 Explanation of the material •• Employees are free to associate socially, politically, religiously or otherwise, as well as join any bargaining council topic and its boundary without fear of victimisation. Our code of conduct enables us to correctly manage situations where an employee may infringe on these rights •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above •• SR: our workplace – our strategy 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 49 and its components •• SR: Our workplace – our strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 407-1 Operations and suppliers in Not available which the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 412: Human rights assessment 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 33 topic and its boundary •• SR: Digital human rights our context 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 33; 34 and its components •• SR: Digital human rights our strategy; what we did 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above p. 35 management approach •• SR: Digital human rights what we did governance, freedom of expression and privacy processes 412-2 Employee training on human Not available rights policies or procedures 412-3 Significant investment Not available agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 73 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) GRI 413: Local communities 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 15; 28 topic and its boundary •• IR: How our strategy is sustaining value (see hearts and minds pillar); relationships on which we rely to create value p. 24 •• SR: Corporate social investment – our strategy 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 24 and its components •• SR: Corporate social investment – our strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 413-1 Operations with local SR: Corporate social investment – what we did p. 24 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes GRI 415: Public policy 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above topic and its boundary •• SR: Corporate social investment – our strategy 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 28 and its components •• IR: Relationships on which we rely to create value p. 24 •• SR: Corporate social investment – our strategy 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 415-1 Political contributions In 2018, MTN South Africa donated R25 million to political parties in support of upcoming national elections in 2019. The amount was apportioned to parties based on the number of seats held in the national assembly, following the outcomes of the 2014 national elections. GRI 416: Customer health and safety 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 45 topic and its boundary •• SR: Environmental resources our strategy •• The group’s position on mobiles and health is available on www.mtn.com 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 46 and its components •• SR: Environmental resources what we did EMF management 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 74 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) 416-1 Assessment of the health •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 46 and safety impacts of •• SR: Environmental resources – what we did on EMF management product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance Not available concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services GRI 417: Marketing and labelling 103-1 Explanation of the material See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above topic and its boundary 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 14; 28 and its components •• IR: How our strategy is creating value best customer experience; relationships on which we rely to create value p. 35 •• SR: Digital human rights empowering customers through fair treatment and mobile advertising controls 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above p. 14 management approach •• IR: How our strategy is creating value best customer experience. The Net Promoter Score (NPS) is an externally assured figure 417-1 Requirements for product •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 35 and service information and •• SR: Digital human rights empowering customers through fair treatment and mobile advertising controls labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance Not available concerning marketing communications GRI 418: Customer privacy 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 33 topic and its boundary •• SR: Digital human rights – our context 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 28 and its components •• IR: Relationships on which we rely to create value p. 33; 34 •• SR: Digital human rights – our strategy; what we did 103-3 Evaluation of the •• See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above p. 35 management approach •• SR: Digital human rights – what we did governance, freedom of expression and privacy processes MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 75 º º º º º º º º Annual sustainability statements Global Reporting Initiatives Standards continued Indicator Disclosure Reference and information Page(s) 418-1 Substantiated complaints Not available concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socio-economic compliance 103-1 Explanation of the material •• See GRI 103-1 in economic performance above p. 6; 33 topic and its boundary •• IR: Our market context and material matters challenging political and regulatory environment; our top risks to value creation 103-2 The management approach •• See GRI 103-2 in economic performance above p. 13; 25; 29; 56 and its components •• IR: How our strategy is creating value (see hearts and minds pillar); how our strategy is sustaining value hearts and minds (see 2018 performance); relationships on which we rely to create value; governance risk management, compliance and corporate governance committee 103-3 Evaluation of the See GRI 103-3 in economic performance above management approach 419-1 Non-compliance with laws The value of major fines is described in the group’s annual results presentation available at and regulations in the social https://www.mtn.com/investors/ and economic area 76 MTN Group Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2018 www.mtn.com Tel: +27 83 912 3000/+27 83 869 3000/+27 11 912 3000 Innovation Centre 216 14th Avenue Fairland, 2195 South Africa
