ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY 5.0 6.0 REPORT 2018 CODE OF ETHICS ENVIRONMENTAL AND ANTIRESPONSIBILITY CORRUPTION MEASURES 24 28 INDEX 7.0 QUALITY OF LIFE FOR EMPLOYEES 8.0 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND SUPPORT 42 48 1.0 2.0 9.0 10.0 MESSAGE FROM COMPANY COMMITMENT TO EXTERNAL OUR CEO PROFILE HUMAN RIGHTS PROGRAMMES 4 6 52 56 3.0 4.0 11.0 12.0 REPORT CORPORATE GRI STANDARD APPENDIX PARAMETERS GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 14 18 60 66 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1.0 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO WELCOME TO ASUR’S ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR THE YEAR 2018. Principal U.N. Sustainable Development Goals addressed in The issue of climate change continues to be Alongside our consistently excellent health and at the top of the world sustainability agensafety record, which we have the dedication of this report: da, and in ASUR we have been working hard our staff to thank for, we continue to provide to find ways of further reducing our carbon a source of stable, decent employment for emissions. We are coming to the end of the the 1,057 people that work for us, and in process of obtaining LEED certification from 2018 achieved one of the lowest levels of GOOD HEALTH AND WELLBEING the U.S. Green Building Council for our new staff turnover in the company’s history. Our Terminal 4 at Cancún Airport, and we have community investments in 2018 were once been actively seeking solutions that will allow again for a record sum, of 79 million pesos, us to make the change to renewable energy in which was used to promote culture and the QUALITY EDUCATION all of our Mexican airports. arts both nationally and at the local level, as 4 well as for a wide range of community projects 5 2018 was the first full year of operations of mainly in the areas of health and education. DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Terminal 4, and as we expected the creation of the new infrastructure at Cancún Airport had Our vision is to create a lasting, mutually bea considerable effect on our electricity conneficial relationship with our local communisumption. Overall, consumption increased by ties, the people that work at our airports, and INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE 13% in all our airports, and on a per-passenger the people that travel through them, for many basis it went up by almost 6%. As our indirect years to come. emissions due to electricity use in our facilities REDUCED INEQUALITIES are the main source of our carbon footprint, it If you have any feedback on this report, or on is now among our top priorities to find cleaner how we can improve our reporting process, sources for this energy. we would be happy to hear from you (contactos@asur.com.mx). CLIMATE ACTION Adolfo Castro Rivas, Chief Executive Officer LIFE ON LAND ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY AS OF THE 31ST OF DECEMBER 2018, REPORT 2018 ASUR DIRECTLY EMPLOYS A TOTAL OF 1,057 PEOPLE. IN 2018, A TOTAL OF 2.0 33 PASSENGERS PASSED THROUGH ASUR’S MEXICAN AIRPORTS. 2018 WAS THE FIRST FULL YEAR OF OPERATION OF TERMINAL 4 AT CANCÚN AIRPORT 6 7 Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. operates a group of nine airports in the southeast region of Mexico under the brand name ASUR. These airports are located in the cities of Cancún, Cozumel, Huatulco, Mérida, COMPANY Minatitlán, Oaxaca, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa. The company’s headquarters are located in Mexico City. In February of 2013, the concession for the operation of Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport in San Juan, Puerto PROFILE Rico, was granted to Aerostar Airport Holdings, LLC, a company in which ASUR holds a 60% stake. Between October 2017 and May 2018, ASUR acquired 100% of the shares in Airplan, S.A., the company that holds the concessions to operate a group of six airports in Colombia, located in Rionegro, Medellín, Montería, Carepa, Quibdo, and Corozal. These are the only operations outside of Mexico in which ASUR currently has an interest. COMPANY PROFILE ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2.1 BUSINESS 2.2 COMPANY 2.3 SHAREHOLDER ACTIVITIES HISTORY STRUCTURE The company’s core activity is to administer FIGURE 1: ASUR’s nine Mexican airports are operated unIn June 2007, the strategic partner ITA reduand maintain the infrastructure of its airports SUMMARY OF OPERATIONAL der 50-year concessions that were granted to ced its shareholding in the company from 15% to ensure sufficient capacity for safe, efficient BOUNDARIES, ASUR AIRPORTS the company in 1998, as part of the Mexican goto 7.65%. As of the 31st of December 2018, ITA operations and a high standard of service. Bavernment’s plan to open up the country’s stais owned by Fernando Chico Pardo, a Mexican sic infrastructure includes that required for CONTROLLED DIRECTLY BY ASUR te-owned airport sector to private investment. investor, who has a 50% stake in the company; aircraft takeoff and landing operations and Directly Employed Staff: and by Inversiones Productivas Kierke, S.A. de for arriving and departing passenger flows, as • General administrative Under the privatisation scheme, an initial stake C.V., a subsidiary of the Mexican bus transport • Car-park attendants well as facilities for the authorities involved in • Airport Rescue & Fire Fighting personnel of 15% in the company’s capital stock (the BB company Grupo ADO, S.A. de C.V., which also airport operations (air-traffic controllers, cus• Hold-baggage-screening system operators series shares) was sold to a strategic partner, has a stake of 50%. • Surveillance-camera operators toms, immigration, etc.). Subcontracted Staff: Inversiones y Técnicas Aeroportuarias, S.A. de • Security guards C.V. (ITA), with expertise in Mexican business The 92.35% of ASUR’s shares that are not held • Passenger-inspection personnel In addition to the above, the company enters • Cleaning staff operations and in the international airport inby ITA are traded on the New York Stock Exinto agreements with external providers for a • Convenience-store staff dustry. The remaining 85% of the company’s change (NYSE: ASR) and the Mexico City Bolsa Facilities: range of additional services, which may inclu• Public-access areas in terminal buildings shares (the B series) began trading on the (BMV: ASUR). As of the 31st of December 2018, de complementary services for aircraft (such • Passenger-access areas in terminal buildings stock exchanges of Mexico City and New York Fernando Chico Pardo directly or indirectly • Airside and airfield facilities in two public offers in September 2000 and owns a stake of 16.41% in ASUR (including the as baggage handling and ramp services) and • Car parks and roadways commercial services for passengers (such as March 2005. ASUR is therefore a one-hunstake held via ITA); and Grupo ADO, S.A. de restaurants, shops and car rental, among other dred-per-cent privately owned company, subC.V. directly or indirectly owns a stake of 16.13% business lines). The company’s aeronautical, ject to a series of national and international in ASUR (including the stake held via ITA). 8 complementary and commercial activities reregulatory frameworks. 9 present its three revenue streams. Consequently, there are facilities and personnel WHERE ASUR HAS LIMITED INFLUENCE that, while located at ASUR’s airports, are not Staff and Facilities of: under the direct operational control of the com• Airlines, including check-in and boarding staff • Ground handlers and ramp-service providers, pany. These include all those corresponding to including baggage handlers, etc. the government agencies, complementary ser• Commercial concession holders, including restaurants, shops, car rental companies, taxis, vice providers and commercial concession holetc. ders mentioned above, as well as the facilities and staff members of the various airlines that operate out of the company’s airports. NOT CONTROLLED BY ASUR Staff and Facilities of: • DGAC (Mexican civil-aviation authority) • INM (immigration authority) • Customs • Law-enforcement agencies (airport police) • SENEAM (air-traffic controllers) • ASA (fuel services for aircraft) COMPANY PROFILE ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2.4 ORGANISATIONAL 2.5 OPERATING AND STRUCTURE FINANCIAL DATA As of the 31st of December 2018, ASUR directly In 2018, a total of 33,247,315 passengers passed In 2018, ASUR’s nine Mexican airports handled Together, the nine airports of ASUR serve pasemploys a total of 1,057 people. Our organisathrough ASUR’s Mexican airports (not inclua total of 342,052 air-traffic movements (lansengers arriving from every continent, althoutional structure may be summarised as follows: ding private aviation or transit passengers), of dings and takeoffs), of which 83% were comgh a considerable majority of passengers arrieach of the nine airports of ASUR is a subsidiary which 17,403,698 (52%) were international and mercial flights, 1% were charter flights, and ve from North American destinations: in 2018, of the holding company, Grupo Aeroportuario 15,843,617 (48%) were domestic passengers. 16% were general aviation (private) flights. passengers from the United States of America del Sureste, S.A.B. de C.V. In addition, there are and Canada accounted for 72% of internatiotwo subsidiary service companies, one that diThe total passenger figure for 2018 increased nal passengers. rectly employs the Group’s unionised staff (RH by 2,194,746 (7.1%) compared to the year 2017. FIGURE 4: ASUR, S.A. de C.V.) and another that directly emThe company’s largest airport is the one loBREAKDOWN OF AIR-TRAFFIC In 2018, the net income of the company was 5.1 ploys all the Group’s non-unionised staff (Servicated at Cancún, which accounted for 76% of MOVEMENTS BY AVIATION CATEGORY billion Mexican pesos (equivalent to approxicios Aeroportuarios del Sureste, S.A. de C.V.). total passenger traffic in 2018 (the same permately 266 million US dollars). The company centage as in 2017). Commercial aviation ended the year with total assets worth 56.2 FIGURE 2: General aviation billion pesos (approximately 2.9 billion US STRUCTURE, HOLDING COMPANY Charter aviation dollars), total liabilities of 19.5 billion pesos AND SUBSIDIARIES FIGURE 3: (approximately 1.0 billion US dollars) and total BREAKDOWN OF INTERNATIONAL AND 5.9 equity of 36.7 billion pesos (approximately 1.9 ONE HOLDING COMPANY DOMESTIC PASSENGER TRAFFIC THOUSANDS billion US dollars).* GRUPO AEROPORTUARIO 46.1 (MILLION PASSENGERS; NOT INCLUDING GENERAL OPERATIONS DEL SURESTE, S.A.B. DE C.V. THOUSANDS AVIATION AND TRANSIT PASSENGERS) * Figures in US dollars calculated at an exchange rate of 10 OPERATIONS 264.3 19.24 Mexican pesos per dollar (2018 average). 11 AEROPUERTO DE CANCÚN, International 2016 THOUSANDS S.A. DE C.V. Domestic OPERATIONS AEROPUERTO DE COZUMEL, FIGURE 5: S.A. DE C.V. SUMMARY OF P&L AND BALANCE SHEET 13.0 (FIGURES STATED IN MILLIONS OF MEXICAN PESOS) AEROPUERTO DE HUATULCO, MILLIONS 15.4 S.A. DE C.V. 2016 PASSANGERS MILLIONS 3.3 AEROPUERTO DE MÉRIDA, PASSANGERS THOUSANDS S.A. DE C.V. 48.0 OPERATIONS 2018 2017 AEROPUERTO DE MINATITLÁN, THOUSANDS Assets 56,182 56,614 S.A. DE C.V. OPERATIONS 277.5 Liabilities 19,500 22,926 11 SUBSIDIARIES 2017 THOUSANDS AEROPUERTO DE OAXACA, 14.3 Equity 36,681 33,688 S.A. DE C.V. OPERATIONS MILLIONS 2017 16.7 AEROPUERTO DE TAPACHULA, PASSANGERS Revenues 15,410 12,590 S.A. DE C.V. MILLIONS Operating costs 7,766 11,113 PASSANGERS AEROPUERTO DE VERACRUZ, Net income 5,120 6,750 S.A. DE C.V. 3.6 THOUSANDS AEROPUERTO DE VILLAHERMOSA, S.A. DE C.V. 53.3 OPERATIONS THOUSANDS RH ASUR, S.A. DE C.V. 15.8 OPERATIONS MILLIONS 2018 17.4 2018 285.2 SERVICIOS AEROPORTUARIOS PASSANGERS MILLIONS THOUSANDS DEL SURESTE, S.A. DE C.V. PASSANGERS OPERATIONS COMPANY PROFILE ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 2.6 SIGNIFICANT 2.7 SOCIAL 2.8 DESCRIPTION CHANGES IN RESPONSIBILITY OF COMPANY’S OPERATIONS DURING AWARDS AND EXTERNAL VALUE CHAIN REPORTING PERIOD PROGRAMMES 2018 was the first full year of operation of TerDuring 2018, ASUR maintained its status as an In the reporting period, ASUR received To maintain the facilities at its airports and minal 4 at Cancún Airport. This project, which active signatory of the United Nations Global Environmental Quality Assurance certificates a high standard of passenger service, ASUR involved a significant expansion of the builtCompact (UNGC) by complying with the UNfor five of its airports from the Mexican contracts goods and services with a wide ranup surface areas or “footprint” of the airport, GC’s reporting requirements. The Global ComEnvironmental Protection Agency, Profepa. ge of suppliers. Among the most important of is necessary to create sufficient capacity to pact is an initiative established by the United The certification in question represents official these are: contractors hired to carry out conshandle the increase in passenger traffic at that Nations to promote the values of social resconfirmation by the Mexican environmental truction work for the maintenance, extension destination. Initial earthmoving works and the ponsibility and respect for human rights in buauthorities that the recipient has complied or remodelling of airport infrastructure; teclearance of vegetation were undertaken in sinesses around the world. in full with all observations resulting from chnical supervision services to ensure that the year 2015, as previously reported. The mathe audits conducted by the authorities to construction work is completed on time and jor construction works relating to the terminal Additionally, for the eleventh year running, enforce Mexican environmental legislation. in accordance with specifications; suppliers of building itself and related infrastructure got we were awarded recognition as a Socially The airports certified were Cozumel, Huatulco, equipment for air-conditioning, security and under way in 2016 and concluded toward the Responsible Company by the Mexican Centre Oaxaca, Tapachula and Villahermosa. check-in systems, and so on; and the proviend of 2017. for Philanthropy, known by its Spanish initials Certificates are valid for a period of two years; ders of certain services, such as cleaning, seCEMEFI. CEMEFI bases its awards on self-asthe remaining airports in the Group—Cancún, curity and surveillance, passenger inspection, The requisite environmental-impact assesssessments of internal practices and programMérida, Minatitlán and Veracruz ––are due for and refuse collection. 12 ments were carried out and authorisation was mes carried out by the companies themselrecertification in 2019. 13 obtained from the Mexican environmental auves, which are required to submit adequate The vast majority of the companies in ASUR’s thorities before work began. The environmendocumentation of the corresponding activiAs of the 31st of December 2018, the environvalue chain are based in Mexico, with the notatal-impact-mitigation measures implemented ties. The assessments monitor performance mental management systems in place in all of ble exception of some suppliers of airport-speincluded the recovery and replanting of rare in four key areas: ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 certificific equipment such as boarding bridges, plant species, and the relocation of animals cation. The airports at Cozumel, Mérida, Minaspecialised vehicles, and baggage-handling from the areas in question. For a more detai• Quality of life for company employees. titlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa equipment. All contractors and subcontracled discussion of mitigation measures for in• Business ethics and anti-corruption were recertified for the period 2017-2020, and tors are required to adhere to ASUR’s Code frastructure expansion, please refer to section practices. those at Cancún, Huatulco and Oaxaca were of Ethics. Their employees have access to the 6.2.1 of this report. • Community support and relations. recertified for the period 2016-2019. company’s internal reporting system, and are • Environmental protection. encouraged to report any instances of unethical behaviour or violations of their fundamental rights. The company’s Internal Auditing Department also carries out random inspections to ensure that subcontractors adhere to the provisions of Mexican labour legislation, especially with regard to payment of social security contributions for their employees. During 2018, of the 20 biggest contracts for goods and services entered into by the company, 17 were for general services, and three were for the acquisition of equipment. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY THIS REPORT REPORT 2018 WILL FOCUS IN PARTICULAR ON SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 3.0 ASUR’S PRINCIPAL STAKEHOLDER GROUPS HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED BASED ON INTERNAL ASSESSMENTS AND EXTERNAL GUIDANCE 14 15 This Annual Sustainability Report relates to the company’s operations in the period between the 1st of January and the 31st of December 2018, and follows on from ASUR’s 2017 Annual Sustainability Report which can be consulted at www.asur.com.mx. Any queries relating to this report may be addressed to: Alistair McCreadie, tel. +52 55 5284 0488, e-mail: amccreadie@asur.com.mx. REPORT PARAMETERS REPORT PARAMETERS ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 3.1 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 3.2 SCOPE AND AND IDENTIFICATION OF LIMITATIONS OF REPORT MATERIAL ASPECTS One of the fundamental decision-making Below is a summary of the main stakeholderThe engagement activities described above This report is intended to complement ASUR’s tools used by ASUR is an assessment of the engagement activities carried out by ASUR have allowed us to identify a series of maAnnual Financial Statements for 2018, which risks inherent to its operations. This analysis is during 2018: terial aspects to be reported on. In selecting contain in-depth information on the financial prepared internally on an annual basis, and is the information to be included in this report, performance of ASUR during the period in presented to the company’s Audit Committee. FIGURE 6: ASUR has applied the four principles of maquestion. It will therefore focus in particular Further details regarding the company’s risk STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGED teriality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainaon social and environmental matters without analysis may be found in the reports submitted AND ENGAGEMENT METHOD bility context and completeness established including detailed financial data, except insofar to the stock-market authorities in Mexico and by the Global Reporting Initiative for defining as they relate to the standard disclosures the United States. The assessment in question report content. contained in the company profile (Section covers both risks for the company itself, and Stakeholder Principal Engagement 2) and to economic performance indicators those that might adversely affect stakeholder Group Method The material aspects identified, which are all (Section 8). groups. In accordance with the precautionary covered by this report, are listed in Figure 7 Internal communications and approach, one of the guiding principles for the below. The boundaries, both within and outThe environmental performance indicators Company campaigns; feedback and griecompany’s operations is that it should avoid side the organisation, regarding how each mentioned in Section 6 include data from the employees vances received via internal reor minimise any activities that have the potenaspect is reported on are discussed on a caGroup’s nine airports in Mexico only, as theporting system. tial to negatively impact its own operations or se-by-case basis in the relevant sections: se are considered to be the most relevant due the wellbeing of its stakeholders. Identification of priority issues to the nature of the company’s activities. All 16 through direct communicaFIGURE 7: other indicators refer to the nine airports, the 17 ASUR’s principal stakeholder groups have tions and in events organised MATERIAL ASPECTS FOR company’s head offices in Mexico City and Community been identified based on internal assessments by, among others, UN Global SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING other company subsidiaries, as described in groups and external guidance, such as that provided Compact and Mexico stock exSection 2.4. by reporting frameworks, best practices, and change; interaction with comMaterial Aspect Identified Refer to the standards adopted by initiatives such as munity groups at the local level. The report covers operations performed Environment: the United Nations Global Compact and the directly by the companies that form part Identification of priority issues Climate change; wildlife protecSection 6 Mexico Stock Exchange Sustainability Inof the ASUR business group. At this time, through direct communication; use of resources dex. ASUR’s internal stakeholders include the mechanisms are not in place to include the Business tions and in events organised company’s employees, shareholders, and the Anticorruption: activities of clients, suppliers or subcontractors groups and by, among others, UN Global members of the company’s corporate goverSystems in place to prevent cowithin the parameters of this report, unless associations Compact and Mexico stock nance bodies, and its main external stakeholrruption; company rules regarSection 5 otherwise stated. exchange; interaction with buders are local residents and business commuding facilitation payments and siness groups at the local level. nities, and the passengers that travel through bribes to government officials This report has been prepared on a consistent the airports. Airport-service-quality surveys; basis with ASUR’s Annual Sustainability Report Working conditions: feedback and grievances receifor 2017 in terms of measurement methods, Passengers Collective bargaining guaranved via direct communications Section 7 and contains no restatements or reinterpretatees; occupational safety; quaand internal reporting system. tions of data contained in that report. At this lity of life in the workplace time, it is not company policy to seek external Human rights: assurance of our Annual Sustainability Report. Gender equality; non-discrimiSection 9 nation; human trafficking involving minors ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY ASUR ADHERES TO A STRICT SET REPORT 2018 OF REGULATIONS IN ITS CORPORATE-GOVERNANCE PRACTICES ASUR’S SHAREHOLDERS REPRESENT THE HIGHEST AUTHORITY IN THE COMPANY 4.0 OUR AUDIT COMMITTEE IS MADE UP ENTIRELY OF INDEPENDENT MEMBERS 18 19 CORPORATE As a company that is publicly traded on the stock markets of both Mexico City and New York, ASUR adheres to a strict set of regulations in its corporateGOVERNANCE governance practices. Our Board of Directors is made up of a majority of independent members, our Audit Committee is made up entirely of independent members and our other corporate-governance bodies all have varying degrees of independent oversight. The term “independent” is defined in accordance with the Mexican Securities Market Law, and excludes any persons who are executive or non-executive employees of the company or its subsidiaries; shareholders that own a controlling share in the company; the company’s clients, service providers, suppliers, debtors, creditors and business partners, and their board members or employees; in general, any individuals who exert influence or authority over the company; and the relations by blood or marriage of any of the above. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 4.1 SHAREHOLDERS’ 4.2 DUTIES OF THE CORPORATE RIGHTS AND DUTIES GOVERNANCE COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS FIGURE 8: In accordance with Mexican law, ASUR’s sha4.2.1 AUDIT COMMITTEE 4.2.2 NOMINATIONS AND OVERVIEW OF CORPORATE reholders represent the highest authority in COMPENSATIONS COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF ASUR the company. Shareholders’ meetings are held The Audit Committee is responsible for veon at least an annual basis, in order to vote rifying that the company has sufficient inThe Nominations and Compensations CommiCOMPANY SHAREHOLDERS on the most important issues such as dividend ternal controls to ensure accurate financial ttee is mainly responsible for issuing propoULTIMATE AUTHORITY AT THE COMPANY payments and other matters that require shareporting. It also supervises the company’s sals for the appointment of new Board and reholder approval by law. In addition, accorrisk-management activities: on a regular basis Committee members, as well as new executiResponsible for: • Decision-making at the highest level ding to the company’s bylaws, any shareholrisk-mapping activities are carried out, coveve officers in the top level of management in • Due representation of minority shareholders der or group of shareholders representing at ring aspects such as risks relating to financial the company. It also determines the level of least 10% of the company’s capital stock has information, areas of the company that may compensation to be paid at these levels, bathe right to convene a shareholders’ meeting be vulnerable to fraud or other acts of corrupsed on performance assessments and market BOARD OF DIRECTORS at any time. tion, information technology, and environrates, and approves the performance parameResponsible for: mental and social issues. Once the company’s ters that will be used as the basis for assess• Strategic decision-making The Board of Directors reports to the comrisks have been mapped in detail, courses of ment in the subsequent twelve-month period. Number of members: 9 Independent members: 5 pany’s shareholders, and is in turn reported to action are determined for them to be mana20 by four different committees: the Audit Comged and the information is presented to the 4.2.3 OPERATIONS COMMITTEE 21 mittee, the Nominations and Compensations Audit Committee for discussion. Committee, the Operations Committee and The Operations Committee oversees key asAUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS AND the Acquisitions and Contracts Committee. The Audit Committee is also responsible for pects of ASUR’s day-to-day business activiResponsible for: COMPENSATIONS approval of ASUR’s Code of Ethics, which is ties, including compliance with the invest• Oversight of COMMITTEE The Board of Directors is responsible for madiscussed in more detail in Section 5 of this ments that the company is required to make operations to ensure appropriate standard Responsible for: king strategic decisions regarding the comreport. Pursuant to the Code of Ethics, ASUR by the Mexican federal government. It also isof business ethics • Proposals for pany’s business operations. To do so, it receives has an internal reporting system that may be sues proposals and recommendations to the Number of members: 3 appointment of board members; approval of reports from the company’s top management used by anyone to flag instances of abuse or Board of Directors in relation to such matters Independent members: 3 executive pay and corporate governance committees regarcorruption, or to report grievances relating to as the company’s budget, business plan, and Number of members: 3 dividends, among others. ding such matters as the company’s financial workplace matters. The system’s users have Independent members: 1 performance, passenger figures, operations, the option to submit reports anonymously compliance with investment commitments, or to confirm their identity. All such reports and other important matters. On a yearly baare completely confidential and are received sis, the Board submits a report regarding its directly by the Internal Auditing Department, own activities and performance for the evawhich has the duty to investigate them and OPERATIONS ACQUISITIONS luation of the company shareholders. to report to the Audit Committee. The Audit COMMITTEE AND CONTRACTS Committee ultimately reports to the Board of Responsible for: COMMITTEE Directors and the company shareholders re• Compliance Responsible for: garding the reports received and how the mawith investment commitments; • Oversight of tters raised were resolved. acquisitions to proposals to Board ensure appropriate for dividends, budget, ethical standards business plan, etc. Number of members: 3 Number of members: 4 Independent Independent members: 1 members: 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 4.3 COMPOSITION 4.4 FREQUENCY OF SESSIONS OF CORPORATE AND ATTENDANCE RATE GOVERNANCE BODIES AND REMUNERATION 4.2.4 ACQUISITIONS AND Board and Committee members are appoinAs mentioned above, shareholders’ meetings CONTRACTS COMMITTEE ted in accordance with proposals presented are held on at least an annual basis. The Board by the Nominations and Compensations Comof Directors and the committees that report The Acquisitions and Contracts Committee is mittee, whose job it is to identify potential to it all hold four ordinary sessions per year, responsible for ensuring that appropriate stancandidates, analyse their qualifications and with the exception of the Audit Committee, dards are adhered to in the process of acquiexpertise in the relevant strategic areas, and which holds five, and the Nominations and ring the goods and services that the company verify that they do not have any conflicts of Compensations Committee, which holds two. needs to carry out its operations successfuinterest with the company. Once a possible The Board and committees may also hold an lly. Specifically, approval is required from the candidate has been identified for each vacant extraordinary sessions that are needed. Committee for any acquisition or contract position, and this person has expressed his or with a total value in excess of 400,000 US doher agreement to be appointed, the proposal In 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors llars, in one or more years; for extensions to is submitted for approval by either the comheld four sessions, the Audit Committee held existing contracts that represent an increase pany shareholders or the Board of Directors, five sessions, the Operations Committee held of more than 25% of the originally agreed tias applicable. four sessions, the Acquisitions and Contracts meframe or value; when a contract is put up Committee held four sessions, and the Nomi22 for tender and a single bid is received, or when All Board and Committee members are paid a nations and Compensations Committee held 23 a contract is assigned directly and without fixed fee for each session they attend, which two sessions. There was a 93% attendance tender to a given supplier, regardless of the is proposed each year by the Nominations and rate at these meetings. contract value; and in cases when a contract Compensations Committee in line with market is renewed with the same supplier on expiry. standards and is submitted for the approval of the company shareholders. Compensation payable to the company’s executive officers is also analysed and approved by the Nominations and Compensations Committee, subject to ratification by the independent Audit Committee. This includes both base salary and the annual performance bonus, which is linked to a series of performance indicators, also determined annually by the Nominations and Compensations Committee in accordance with the process described in section 4.2.2 above. At this time, there are no female members on either the company’s Board of Directors or any of the corporate governance committees that report to it. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY THE COMPANY HAS REPORT 2018 AN INTERNAL REPORTING SYSTEM DURING 2018, 100% OF THE COMPANY’S EMPLOYEES WERE PROVIDED WITH TRAINING 5.0 RELATING TO THE CODE OF ETHICS 24 25 CODE OF ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES CODE OF ETHICS AND ANTI-CURRUPTION MEASURES ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 5.1 CODE OF 5.2 ANTICORRUPTION ETHICS MEASURES ASUR has a written Code of Ethics that sets forth the ethical standards As established in the Code of Ethics, the Among the other essential roles performed the company expects its employees, executives and corporate company has an internal reporting system by the Internal Auditing Department is the governance officials to adhere to. This Code of Ethics is provided to through which reports or complaints may be assessment of the risks inherent in the comeach new employee as part of the company’s induction procedures. On submitted directly to the Internal Auditing pany’s operations, which are prioritised acan annual basis, awareness campaigns are carried out for all employees; Department for investigation, by email or cording to their potential impact and the litogether with the members of the company’s Board of Directors and voicemail. Employees and other stakeholders kelihood that they will occur. The Department corporate governance committees, company employees are required are encouraged to use this system to report then establishes measures, such as increased to certify that they have not incurred any violations of the Code. The instances of corruption or abuse, and they frequency of internal audits, to focus on those Code of Ethics was most recently updated in November of 2017. may choose to submit reports anonymously operations where a higher risk of corruption or not. In the event that they do confirm their or fraud has been identified, and reports all identity, it is guaranteed that they will not findings to the Audit Committee. be penalised in any way, even if the reports submitted prove to be baseless. During 2018, 100% of the company’s employees were provided with training relating to The Internal Auditing Department reports dithe Code of Ethics. ASUR’s Internal Auditing 26 rectly to the Audit Committee, which is comDepartment carried out audits in all nine air27 posed entirely of independent members (that ports in the Group, as well as the airports lois, people who are not shareholders or execucated in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Colombia, tive officers in the company, or their related and several commercial concession holders parties). As well as investigating all reports reoperating at the airports. These audits resulceived, the Internal Auditing Department estated in a total of 7 relevant observations. A total blishes a quarterly programme of audits to be of 33 reports were submitted via the internal carried out in different business units. The Aureporting system during the year, of which 12 dit Committee approves the work programme were considered to be of critical importance, of the Internal Auditing Department and is in11 were of medium importance and 10 were of formed of the results of the audits performed. minor importance Of the critical matters that came to the attention of the Internal Auditing Department during the year, most were related to internal procedural concerns and no disciplinary action was taken. However, two staff members were disciplined and four staff members were dismissed for failure to adhere to the company’s policies on ethical conduct. The company incurred no fines or penalties in relation to instances of corruption. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY THE ELECTRICITY USED IN THE COMPANY’S AIRPORTS REPORT 2018 CONSTITUTES OUR MAIN SOURCE OF CARBON EMISSIONS IN 2018 ASUR’S TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION IN THE NINE AIRPORTS DECREASED BY 8.5% TERMINAL 4 IN CANCÚN AIRPORT 6.0 IS CURRENTLY IN THE PROCESS OF OBTAINING LEED SUSTAINABILITY CERTIFICATION 28 29 Principal U.N. Sustainable Development Goals addressed in this section: INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE CLIMATE ACTION LIFE ON LAND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 6.1 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES AND MANAGEMENT STRATEGY ASUR has a written policy that expressly and In compliance with the Mexican Law on ClimaSince ASUR’s business activities do not involEach of ASUR’s airports has an Environmental formally sets forth the commitment of the te Change, in 2018 ASUR produced a detaive the manufacture or creation of any kind of Management System that establishes detailed company and its subsidiaries to take positive led inventory of direct and indirect greenhouphysical product, the company’s consumpguidelines and procedures for aspects such as action in relation to the environment. This pose-gas (GHG) emissions in the nine Mexican tion of materials is relatively insignificant. The training, monitoring, emergency response, and licy contains the stated goals of reducing the airports that it operates for the previous year. principal consumable required on a consistent the environmental requirements for projects negative environmental effects of the comThis information was reported to the National basis for our airports’ day-to-day operations and contractors. Each airport’s Environmental pany’s operations and promoting environEmissions Register (Spanish initials RENE). In is fuel, which is discussed in greater detail in Management System is currently certified unmental protection and the economical use of 2017, ASUR’s nine Mexican airports produced a Section 6.2.5 of this report. Similarly, due to der the ISO 14001 programme. In addition to natural resources. total of 46,103 tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2) the nature of ASUR’s operations, the environISO 14001 certification, ASUR’s airports have or the equivalent of carbon dioxide in other mental aspects relating to products, services consistently been awarded Environmental Among the most significant environmental isgreenhouse gases. Indirect GHG emissions reand transport are considered immaterial for Quality Assurance certification, which represues identified by the company with the posulting from the airports’ electricity consumpthe purposes of this report. sents official confirmation by the Mexican entential to impact our operations negatively are tion constitute by far the largest source of vironmental authorities that the recipient has climate change, and the loss of natural habiemissions: 45,181 tonnes of CO2 in 2017 repreWithin the company’s overall strategic complied in full with all observations resulting tats and biodiversity. senting 98% of total emissions. The company’s approach to environmental matters, each of from the audits conducted by the authorities 30 direct GHG emissions were comparatively low; the nine airports in the Group establishes its to enforce Mexican environmental legislation. 31 ASUR is a company whose business depends emissions from facilities or equipment directly own specific goals in accordance with local largely on the tourism industry: our airports at operated by ASUR accounted for just 922 tonconditions. These environmental objectives For additional information relating to key Cancún, Cozumel and Huatulco serve primanes of CO2, or 2% of total emissions. The most are available for consultation in Appendix A environmental issues, such as performance rily tourist markets, and significant numbers significant sources of direct GHG emissions in of this report. against environmental objectives, specific risof tourists also travel through our airports at ASUR’s airports are vehicles such as airside ks and systems, and targeted strategies and Mérida, Oaxaca, Veracruz, and Villahermobuses and utility vehicles. Responsibility for environmental issues within procedures, please see the information consa. Together, these airports accounted for the organisation ultimately lies with our Chief tained in Section 6.2 of this report. 98% of our Mexican passenger traffic in 2018. Additionally, the company has instituted proInfrastructure and Compliance Officer, one of Therefore, it is clearly in the interests of the grammes intended to ensure that the airports’ the six executive officers at the top level of company to contribute to the preservation of water consumption does not put excessive management in the company. This position the natural beauty of these areas, in order for pressure on the water supplies for local habihas responsibility for the oversight of infrasthem to continue to be attractive to visitors. tats and populations; to protect and promote tructure management (including infrastructuplant and animal biodiversity in the undevere expansion), as well as all matters relating Any combination of the effects of climaloped areas surrounding the airports; and to to the company’s compliance with the various te change widely predicted by the scientific ensure that the waste water discharged and regulations it is subject to. ASUR’s Operational community, including rises in sea levels with storm water runoff do not constitute a source and Safety Compliance Manager works below the corresponding loss of beaches, an increaof pollution for local bodies of water. the Chief Infrastructure and Compliance Offised risk of extreme weather events such as cer and manages a team of environmental hurricanes and flooding, and the disappeacoordinators, with members based in each of rance of land and marine habitats such as the airports in the Group. mangroves and coral reefs, has the potential to significantly impact the airports in ASUR’s group located in beach destinations, as well as those serving low-lying or flood-prone areas. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 6.2 OVERVIEW OF PRINCIPAL MITIGATION MEASURES 6.2.1 MITIGATION OF 6.2.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY These figures state only the intermediate energy produced by Mexico’s Federal Electricity ComINFRASTRUCTURE EXPANSION mission and purchased by ASUR. At this time, data are not available that allow a calculation As mentioned above in Section 6.1, the electriof the amount of direct energy from primary sources consumed in order to produce this elecLarge-scale infrastructure expansion at any city used in the company’s airports constitutricity. ASUR does not generate any of the electricity it consumes; one hundred per cent of of ASUR’s airports, which tend to be surrountes our main source of carbon emissions. One the company’s electricity requirements are covered by purchasing from the Federal Electricity ded by undeveloped land, often necessitaof the most important ways that the company Commission. According to figures published by the International Energy Agency, in 2016 (the tes the modification or destruction of natumoderates electricity consumption is to caremost recent data available), 85% of the electricity generated in Mexico was produced from ral habitats. For this reason, projects of this fully monitor the capacity of our airport instanon-renewable sources (natural gas, oil, coal and nuclear energy) and 15% was produced from type are only undertaken following careful llations, and to undertake expansion projects renewable sources (hydroelectric, geothermal, biomass and wind power2). consideration and analysis of the mitigation only when it is necessary from an operational measures that can be applied, and when it is viewpoint; that is, when passenger figures indetermined that there is ample justification, crease to the extent that an expansion is neFIGURE 9: usually to eliminate operational hazards or cessary to ensure continued efficiency in airTOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION VS. PASSENGER GROWTH serious capacity constraints, which in turn port operations. may have negative consequences for local 32 economies and the environment. After several years of constant growth in the 33 numbers of passengers travelling through our During 2018, there were no major infrastrucairports, 2018 was the first year of operations ture-expansion projects that involved signifiof our most recent major infrastructure expan120 33 35 31 cant extensions to the built-up surface areas sion project: Terminal 4 at Cancún Airport, meELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (GWh) 29 30 or “footprint” of the airports. The recently asuring approximately 67,000 square metres. 100 26 PASSENGERS (MILLIONS) constructed Terminal 4 in Cancún Airport is The electricity required for lighting, air-condi23 25 currently in the process of obtaining LEED tioning, and so on, in the new terminal led to 80 21 19 sustainability certification under the standard an increase in total consumption for the year. 16 17 18 20 established by the U.S. Green Building Council The total amount of electricity consumed in all 60 112 (USGBC), which would make Cancún Airport airports in the Group increased year-over-year 99 GWh 15 91 GWh the first in Mexico to have certification of this by 13.1% from 2017 to 2018, while per-passen40 68 69 74 77 GWh 63 61 62 GWh GWh 10 nature for part of its infrastructure. ger consumption increased by 5.7% over the GWh GWh GWh GWh GWh same period1. 20 5 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total electricity consumption Passengers 1 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 2 Source: International Energy Agency website, at: Environmental Management System. https://www.iea.org/statistics/statisticssearch/report/?year=2014&country=MEXICO&product=ElectricityandHeat ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Overall, in 2018 ASUR’s total water consumption in the nine airports decreased by 8.5% from 825,475 to 755,612 cubic metres (m3), representing the third consecutive year of reduction. Water consumption on a per-passenger basis (measured in litres per passenger) decreased by 14.4%. The amount of metered discharge decreased by 1.2% in absolute terms (from 422,323 to 417,450 m3), and by 7.5% in litres per passenger1. FIGURE 10: TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION VS. PASSENGER GROWTH 1,000,000 33 35 31 900,000 29 30 800,000 26 WATER CONSUMPTION (m3) 23 PASSENGERS (MILLIONS) 700,000 25 21 600,000 19 18 20 17 500,000 16 15 400,000 569,624 555,939 596,197 701,660 717,969 909,949 927,038 870,931 825,475 755,612 300,000 10 34 6.2.3 WATER MANAGEMENT 35 200,000 5 In addition to reducing the company’s carbon The water that is recycled is mainly used for 100,000 footprint through energy efficiency, ASUR has watering green areas, which helps to reduce 0 0 also been focusing on improving its systems the demands placed by the airports on local 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 for managing both our water consumption resources. Any water that cannot be stored and the waste water and other effluents proand used for this purpose is released into eiduced in the airports. ther the subsoil or into local wetlands, in ac1 Source: Internal ASUR data Total water consumption cordance with the permits issued by Mexico’s See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. Passengers Eight of ASUR’s nine airports are equipped National Water Commission (CONAGUA). with treatment plants that receive all waste water from terminals and administrative builASUR also takes care to ensure that the quadings. In the case of Cozumel Airport, which lity of the storm water that runs off our airis located on an island, waste water is sent to port facilities is in full compliance with local the municipal drainage system and is treated regulations. Given the weather conditions in at the municipal plant. The airports’ plants use the southeast region of Mexico, no de-icing or biological, mechanical, and chemical treatanti-icing fluids are used in any of the airports ment processes to purify waste water to a in the group. Furthermore, the company has standard where it is clean enough to be either equipment in place on the aircraft aprons of reused or discharged without presenting a each of our airports to ensure that any spills risk to other water sources. of liquids such as fuels or oil are appropriately eliminated before they can be flushed into local water sources. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 6.2.4 WASTE MANAGEMENT The waste disposal companies, which are required to be licenced by the Mexican authoriAn important aspect in ensuring that our opeties, eliminate the hazardous waste using merations do not damage local environments thods that avoid pollution and provide ASUR and ecosystems is to make sure that all the with waste disposal certificates stating the waste materials generated in our airports are methods used. appropriately disposed of. Consequently, each airport has waste management facilities for Non-hazardous waste is handled in sepahazardous and non-hazardous waste. rate facilities at ASUR’s airports to avoid cross-contamination. Cancún Airport, which The waste materials that are classified as hacurrently generates approximately 90% of all zardous under Mexican legislation include a sethe non-hazardous waste in the Group, has a ries of toxic, inflammable and corrosive subsdedicated refuse-recycling plant, where matetances, as well as items of equipment that have rials such as glass, PET plastic, cardboard and come into contact and are contaminated with aluminium are sorted and sent for recycling. 36 these materials. In our airports, all substanAltogether, in 2018 Cancún Airport recycled Overall, in 2018 the nine airports produced However, due to the rise in passenger num37 ces and articles of this kind are safely stored, 16% of the refuse it produced. All the other 6,796 tonnes of non-hazardous waste, which bers over the same period, on a per-passenappropriately labelled and eventually handed airports in the Group have now established sirepresented an increase of 5.4% compared to ger basis this represented a decrease of 0.9%2. over to specialist waste disposal companies, in milar, smaller-scale recycling programmes. 2017. Of this total amount, 1,067 tonnes (16%) strict adherence to the applicable regulations. was recycled and the rest was sent for final The measurements of fuel consumption in disposal at municipal waste-handling facilities1. ASUR’s airports include only the fuel used in the facilities and the vehicles that are the pro6.2.5 FUEL CONSUMPTION perty of the airport company. They do not take into account fuel consumed by the airports’ Petrol (gasoline) and diesel fuels are consusubcontractors, or that consumed by aircraft med to operate a wide range of support vehifor takeoff and landing procedures. While cles, including shuttle buses for transporting ASUR recognises that this information may be passengers to various parts of the airports, of interest to our stakeholders, at this time no utility vehicles, and so on. The total amount of systems are in place for us to obtain these data. fuel consumed by ASUR’s airports increased from 2017 to 2018 by 5.9%, from 570,733 to 604,608 litres. 1 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. 2 Source: Internal ASUR data. See tables in Section 6.3 Environmental Management System. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 6.3 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 6.2.6 BIODIVERSITY ISSUES ASUR has an Environmental Management SysFIGURE 11: tem that is applied in all nine of the Mexican SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ASUR has several programmes in place that airports the company operates. The purpose FOR ALL AIRPORTS are intended to promote and protect the rich of the system is to establish environmental biodiversity in the areas that surround many objectives for each airport, as well as a fraTotal Figures Unit % change of our airports. Local species of plants and mework for the achievement of those objectiParameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) animals that are vulnerable or endangered ves. The system creates a series of parameters have been identified, along with natural habithat can be used to monitor and assess each Total water consumption m3 870,931 825,475 755,612 -8.5% tats that are of special value. In recent years, airport’s performance in relation to the enviTotal water discharged m 3 329,390 422,323 417,450 -1.2% the company has implemented projects to reronmental objectives established, providing Total electricity consumption kWh 91,293,333 98,843,472 111,744,821 13.1% locate endangered plant species during consthe company management with valuable inGJ 328,656 355,836 402,281 13.1% truction work and to carry out reforestation formation for the decision-making process. Total hazardous waste produced kg 15,399 17,319 15,655 -9.6% projects with local species. Total non-hazardous waste Environmental objectives are determined by t 6,194.7 6,450.6 6,796.3 5.4% produced The company also implements wildlife-maeach airport on an ad hoc basis, in order to 38 Non-hazardous waste recycled t 919.2 1,046.2 1,066.6 1.9% 39 nagement measures to reduce the risk of ensure that local conditions are taken into % non-hazardous waste recycled 15% 16% 16% impacts between animals and aircraft at our consideration in ASUR’s environmental proTotal fuel consumption l 541,449 570,733 604,608 5.9% airports, both on the ground and in the air. tection programme. The full details of the One of the most significant risks is that of bird environmental objectives established in 2018 strike, which may cause significant damage for the nine airports in the Group, as well as to aircraft1. ASUR counters this risk by using performance against those objectives, can be trained hawks to scare away other species of consulted in Appendix A. birds and prevent them from nesting on airPer-Passenger Basis Unit % change port grounds; the method causes no damage The Environmental Management Systems in Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) to the bird populations themselves, while guaeach of ASUR’s airports are certified accorranteeing aviation safety. ding to ISO 14001. The following tables proviWater consumption per passenger l/pax 30.4 26.4 22.6 -14.4% de an overview of the performance in all nine Water discharged per passenger l/pax 11.5 13.5 12.5 -7.5% of ASUR’s airports with regard to some of the Electricity consumption per kWh/ most relevant environmental parameters esta3.2 3.2 3.3 5.7% passenger pax blished by the System: MJ/pax 11.5 11.4 12.1 5.7% Hazardous waste produced per g/pax 0.5 0.6 0.5 -15.4% passenger Non-hazardous waste produced kg/pax 0.22 0.21 0.20 -1.5% per passenger Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 18.9 18.3 18.1 -0.9% 1 Bird-strike incidents that cause damage to aircraft are reported to the Mexican civil-aviation authorities by the airlines, as the directly affected parties. ASUR does not compile data on the numbers of bird strikes at or within the vicinity of its airports. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 6.4 ENVIRONMENTAL CERTIFICATION For a full breakdown of these performance indi3. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION: 5. NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED: As of the 31st of December 2018, the environcators for each of the nine airports operated by mental management systems in place in all of ASUR, please refer to Appendix B. This parameter refers to the total amount of This parameter refers to the total amount ASUR’s airports have valid ISO 14001 certifielectricity consumed by the airports from of waste classified as non-hazardous under cation. The airports at Cancún, Huatulco and The parameters measured are described in the national grid during the year. Data are Mexican law, which is produced by the airOaxaca were recertified for the period 2016more detail below: provided on total consumption (stated in kiports and disposed of in municipal landfills 2019, and those at Cozumel, Mérida, Minatitlowatt hours and the equivalent in gigajouduring the year. Recycled waste is not inlán, Tapachula, Veracruz and Villahermosa 1. WATER CONSUMPTION: les), as well as consumption on a per-passcluded in this figure. Data are provided on were recertified for the period 2017-2020. enger basis (kilowatt hours and megajoules total production (stated in tonnes), as well This parameter refers to the total amount of per passenger) to provide a more comparaas production on a per-passenger basis (kiMexico’s Environmental Protection Agency water consumed by the airports during the ble parameter from one airport to another lograms per passenger) to provide a more (Profepa) also performs audits once every year, whether taken from the municipal waand from one year to another. These figures comparable parameter from on airport to two years to ensure that ASUR’s airports are ter supply or extracted from underground state only the intermediate energy produanother and from one year to another. in full compliance with the country’s environaquifers. Water recycled from treatment ced by Mexico’s Federal Electricity Commismental legislation. Following the inspection plants is not included in this figure. Data are sion and purchased by ASUR. At this time, 6. FUEL CONSUMPTION: procedure, provided that no violations of en40 provided on total consumption (stated in data are not available that allow a calculavironmental legislation are identified, the in41 cubic metres), as well as consumption on a tion of the amount of direct energy consuThis parameter refers to the total amount dividual airports are issued certificates confirper-passenger basis (litres per passenger) med in order to produce the electricity. of petrol (gasoline) and diesel consumed ming their compliance with the law. All nine of to provide a more comparable parameter by the airports during the year, for examASUR’s airports currently have valid environfrom one airport to another and from one 4. HAZARDOUS WASTE PRODUCED: ple in utility vehicles and shuttle buses to mental compliance certification: the airports year to another. transport passengers for boarding. Data at Cozumel, Huatulco, Oaxaca, Tapachula and This parameter refers to the total amount of are provided on total consumption (staVillahermosa were recertified during 2018, 2. WATER DISCHARGED: waste classified as hazardous under Mexican ted in litres), as well as consumption on a and those at Cancún, Mérida, Minatitlán and law, which is produced by the airports and per-passenger basis (millilitres per passVeracruz are due to be audited during 2019. This parameter refers to the total amount appropriately disposed of during the year. enger) to provide a more comparable paof waste water discharged by the airports Data are provided on total production (starameter from one airport to another and To date, no administrative or judicial sanctions, during the year, in accordance with the perted in kilograms), as well as production on a from one year to another. including fines or non-monetary penalties, have mits obtained from the local authorities, foper-passenger basis (milligrams per passenbeen imposed on the company for failure to llowing the required treatment processes. ger) to provide a more comparable paramecomply with national, international or local enData are provided on total discharge (stater from on airport to another and from one vironmental laws or regulations. ted in cubic metres), as well as discharge year to another. on a per-passenger basis (litres per passenger) to provide a more comparable parameter from one airport to another and from one year to another. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY DURING THE PERIOD, REPORT 2018 WE ACHIEVED OUR LOWEST LEVEL OF STAFF TURNOVER AND AN EXCELLENT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY RECORD A TOTAL OF 127,019 MAN HOURS OF TRAINING WAS PROVIDED Principal U.N. Sustainable Development Goals addressed in 7.0 this section: DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH 42 43 REDUCED INEQUALITIES As a fundamental part of ASUR’s duty of care toward its employees, we aim to provide decent working conditions in all the subsidiaries that form part of the Group. The company’s main goal in relation to human resources is to ensure that our airports constitute a reliable source of safe employment for local populations. Between 2017 and 2018, the number of full-time employees in our organisation increased by 3.7% from 1,019 to 1,057, while our agency-hired employees increased by 11.3% from 240 to 267. During the period, we have achieved one QUALITY OF LIFE of our lowest levels of staff turnover and an excellent occupational health and safety record. Further information on these aspects is available in Sections 7.1 FOR EMPLOYEES and 7.2 of this report. QUALITY OF LIFE FOR EMPLOYEES ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7.1 DESCRIPTION OF WORKFORCE Positive relations between the company’s In addition to the professional development of As of the 31st of December 2018, the majority Of the 1,057 workers directly employed by the employees and management are also a priostaff members, the company plans a series of of ASUR’s workforce was employed on a percompany, 835 are male (79%) and 222 are ferity for ASUR. 35% of the company’s emploactivities, to provide an opportunity for emmanent, full-time basis; of a total workforce of male (21%). All of the company’s six executives yees are unionised, and the company enjoys ployees to socialise and to support local cul1,324 people, 1,057 (80%) had indefinite, writare male. Of the 64 employees in managerial a good working relationship with the union. tural traditions. Among the events organised ten labour contracts for full-time employment. positions, 55 are male (86%) and 9 are female The company has a written “open-doors” comin 2018 were celebrations of Children’s Day, Among full-time employees, a staff turnover (14%). Of the remaining 986 employees, 773 munication policy, according to which all staff Mothers’ Day, Father’s Day, Christmas, and the rate of 3.5% was achieved during the year; are male (77%) and 213 are female (23%). members are free to approach any member of traditional Mexican festivities of the Epiphany this is calculated on the basis of the number management with consultations or complaints (Día de Reyes) and the Day of the Dead (Día of people who left the company for whatever The following table shows a breakdown of the at any time. Employees are also given the opde Muertos). reason, including retirements, resignations, and 1,057 permanent employees of the company tion of submitting any grievances they have via dismissals, as a percentage of total employees. according to the location where they work: the company’s internal reporting system; these The company has a series of written policies reports are investigated confidentially by the covering different aspects that relate to its huInternal Auditing Department to identify any man resources, such as recruitment practices, FIGURE 12: instances of inappropriate behaviour on the holiday entitlements, work-life balance, and BREAKDOWN OF ASUR WORKFORCE ON GEOGRAPHIC BASIS 44 part of those involved and to reach amicable occupational health and safety. Additionally, (PERMANENT EMPLOYEES) 45 solutions whenever possible. company policy mandates the protection of employees’ human rights, such as the right to No. of NonThe company has a permanent training proequal opportunity and non-discrimination, the City State Unionised % % employees unionised gramme for employees in all ten locations right to personal and physical integrity, and Cancún Quintana Roo 542 155 29% 387 71% where we have operations in Mexico (the head the right to exercise fundamental liberties, inoffices in Mexico City and the nine airports). cluding freedom of association. Regular interMérida Yucatán 105 45 43% 60 57% During 2018, training was provided to staff nal campaigns are carried out to ensure that Villahermosa Tabasco 61 35 57% 26 43% members in a wide range of areas, covering all company employees are aware of these Cozumel Quintana Roo 61 27 44% 34 56% topics such as technical systems training, aviapolicies, as well as the provisions of ASUR’s Veracruz Veracruz 63 29 46% 34 54% tion security, fire safety, and first aid. A total of Code of Ethics, which include information on Cd. de México Cd. de México 48 24 50% 24 50% 127,019 man hours of training was provided for the internal reporting system for grievances. Tapachula Chiapas 50 0 0% 50 100% the company’s 1,057 employees and other key Oaxaca Oaxaca 48 23 48% 25 52% members of the airport communities during On a day-to-day basis, labour issues within Huatulco Oaxaca 42 20 48% 22 52% the year1. the organisation are the responsibility of the Minatitlán Veracruz 37 16 43% 21 57% company’s Human Resources Manager, who is Total 1,057 374 35% 683 65% based at the company’s headquarters in Mexico City and oversees the human resources team in each of the airports. Certain labour relations issues, such as the renegotiation of the collective bargaining agreement with the union, are handled directly by the Chief Exe1 Calculated on the basis of the total duration of training cutive Officer. courses, multiplied by the number of trainees. QUALITY OF LIFE FOR EMPLOYEES ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 7.2 SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE The remaining 267 workers (20% of total worThe company’s non-unionised workers are The right to physical integrity, and therefore a These data refer exclusively to the 1,057 direct, kforce) were employed on a temporary basis also offered a series of employment benesafe workplace that does not expose emplofull-time employees of ASUR as of the 31st via an employment agency. These temporary fits, such as health and life insurance, holiyees to unnecessary risks, is included in the of December 2018. At this time, there are no workers are distributed among the airports on day entitlements, Christmas bonuses, matcompany’s written policies. During 2018, the systems in place that require subcontractors, an ad hoc basis, as needed. As of the 31st of ching-funds savings accounts and, in some 1,057 permanent employees of ASUR worservice providers or other parties with emploDecember 2018, the geographic distribution of cases, performance bonuses, that are in exked a total of 2,978,832 hours, equivalent to yees working at the airport to provide ASUR ASUR’s 267 temporary workers was as follows: cess of the minimum benefits required under 372,354 days (eight-hour shifts). In the period with accident, injury and absenteeism data. 219 at Cancún Airport; 11 at Villahermosa AirMexican labour legislation. in question, there were in total thirteen cases port; 8 at Cozumel Airport; 8 at Mérida Airport; of accidents in the workplace, affecting 1.2% 8 at Veracruz Airport; 7 at Oaxaca Airport; 3 at In addition to the permanent employees and of staff members, with no cases of occupatioHuatulco Airport; and 3 at Tapachula Airport. the agency-hired personnel mentioned abonal disease and no fatalities. During the year, ve, there are significant numbers of workers the total number of lost days resulting from ASUR’s unionised workers all belong to the based at each of the company’s airports who these accidents was 310, equivalent to 0.08% National Airport Industry Workers Union (Sinare not directly employed by the company. of total days worked. dicato Nacional de Trabajadores de la Industria They may be broken down into a number of Aeroportuaria y de Servicios Similares y Codifferent categories, including: government In accordance with the system used by the nexos de la República Mexicana). Once every employees, such as those working for the air Mexican Social Security Institute, accidents in two years, the company management and the traffic control, immigration and customs serthe workplace are defined as incidents leaunion undertake a collective bargaining provices; the employees of ASUR’s commercial ding to an injury that requires the staff mem46 cedure to determine employment conditions concession holders, such as food and beveraber in question to miss one or more days of 47 for unionised employees and the benefits that ge or retail outlets and car rental offices; the work. The total number of lost days includes they are entitled to. The agreements reached employees of other businesses with a permaall calendar days between the initial accident in this negotiation are formalised in a written nent base at the airport, such as ramp service and the date on which the employee returns collective labour agreement that is signed by providers and the airlines; and the employees to work, even when these days are not worthe representatives of the company and the of those companies subcontracted by ASUR king days. The date on which the accident union. The renegotiation process was underto provide specific services in the airports. In occurs is counted as day one for this purpotaken during 2018, and the current collective the latter case, the most significant services se. Minor accidents requiring first-aid treatbargaining agreement will be valid until 2020. subcontracted by ASUR in all nine of its airment only are not included in the number of ports are cleaning services for terminal builaccidents in the workplace. Among the benefits negotiated with the dings, administrative offices, and so on; and union for the 2018-2020 period are: higher security services, including general surveillanIn the same period, the absentee rate (defirates of pay for special shifts or activities that ce staff and the personnel manning security ned as the total number of days that emploimply a higher level of risk; life and disability filters and passenger inspection points. yees were absent from work due to general, insurance; Christmas bonuses and holiday non-work-related illness or when no justificaentitlements; support for childcare; support At this time, data are not available in relation tion was presented for the absence) corresin the event of a death in the family; and to employment types, contract types or coponded to a total of 1,659 days, or 0.45% of scholarships to enable employees and their llective bargaining agreements for the aforetotal days worked. children to complete their basic education, mentioned workers. as well as an allowance for their books, stationery, and other school equipment. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY WE ARE AWARE THAT THE AIRPORTS WE OPERATE REPORT 2018 ARE IMPORTANT FOR THE PROMOTION OF REGIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 8.0 THE TOTAL VALUE OF DONATIONS FOR SOCIAL PROJECTS IN 2018 IS ESTIMATED AT $79.6 MILLION PESOS Principal U.N. Sustainable Development Goals addressed in this section: GOOD HEALTH AND WELLBEING 48 49 QUALITY EDUCATION COMMUNITY The contribution that ASUR makes towards creating decent living standards INVOLVEMENT for its employees and their families is one of the most significant ways in which the company provides support for local communities. The basis for this is the financial success of our business, and we are therefore constantly AND SUPPORT seeking ways in which we can increase value for both our shareholders and other stakeholders. We are also aware that the airports we operate play a significant role in facilitating business for other companies and individuals in the regions where they are located; our airports form a key part of local transport networks, and are therefore important for the promotion of regional economic development. COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND SUPPORT ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 8.1 DIRECT ECONOMIC BENEFITS As a matter of policy, ASUR undertakes a seThe table below provides a breakdown of the DURING THE YEAR 2018, ries of activities intended to raise the profieconomic value generated, distributed and reASUR DID NOT RECEIVE ANY le of the destinations where we operate. We tained by ASUR in 2018. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FROM have a dedicated Route Development team, THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT. whose job it is to promote our destinations FIGURE 13: with the world’s airlines. The goal of this is to ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED, bring in more flights to our destinations, and DISTRIBUTED AND RETAINED more visitors mean increased revenues for local businesses as well as our airports. We also (FIGURES STATED IN MILLIONS OF MEXICAN PESOS) 8.2 COMMUNITY participate in networking conventions and Economic value generated INVOLVEMENT congresses around the world relating to the Total economic value generated 15,410.2 airport and tourism industries, often in coordination with the Mexican federal and state Economic value distributed tourism authorities and local business groups. The nine airports of ASUR are involved in vaIn relation to education, the various airports Operating costs 7,091.9 rious community projects at the local level. in the group continued to organise guided In addition to any direct or indirect economic Employee wages & benefits 594.7 These projects are selected and administered tours of their facilities for local educational impacts created by our operations, however, by each airport individually, to respond to loestablishments, as well as children’s workshops Payments to providers of we recognise that the success of our business 2,482.5 cal needs and to promote a sense of ownerson a range of subjects such as environmental capital also depends on establishing good relations hip and greater commitment. Support is proprotection. In Mexico City, a donation was 50 with our local communities, and on ensuring Payments to governments 2,346.7 vided monetarily and in the form of donations made of computer equipment to a local 51 that our operations are of mutual benefit to of goods and services, as well as volunteering. primary school and another to an orphanage. Community investments 79.3 both the company and all its stakeholders. To The total value of cash donations, donations In the field of culture, ASUR provided funding this end, each of our airports provides support Total economic value distributed 12,595.1 in kind and man hours in 2018 is estimated at for a range of film and theatre projects, and at the local level for a wide range of commuapproximately $79.6 million pesos. During the several airports in the Group hosted art Economic value retained nity projects. Our corporate policies also inperiod, the projects supported fell under four exhibitions in their terminal buildings. clude stated commitments to run our business Total economic value retained 2,815.1 main categories: public health services, care ethically and to avoid practices that promote for people with disabilities, education and culSeveral of the group’s airports also particicorruption or are harmful to fair trade. SecAs per the methodology established in the ture, and the environment. pated in different ways to support environtions 8.2 and 5.2 of this report contain more Global Reporting Initiative’s sustainability remental initiatives in their local communities. detailed information on ASUR’s community porting guidelines, the figures in this table are The organisations that received support from Among the projects were donations and voinvolvement and anticorruption measures. based on ASUR’s audited financial statements ASUR in the healthcare sector included the lunteering for local beach-cleaning and refofor the year 2018, which are prepared in accorMexican Red Cross. Awareness campaigns restation initiatives. Finally, after the earthdance with Mexican financial reporting stanwere implemented throughout the company to quakes that took place in Mexico toward the dards. The item “Total economic value generapromote healthy eating and a healthier lifestyle. end of 2017, in 2018 a donation was made to ted” corresponds to the company’s revenues. a non-governmental organisation in Oaxaca Under “Economic value distributed”, the item In the field of assistance for people with disabithat provides support in the form of reconsof “Payments to providers of capital” includes lities, upgrades were made and equipment actruction of housing for local people who lost interests on loans and dividends paid to shaquired to continue to improve disabled accestheir homes. reholders. “Payments to governments” corressibility in several of the group’s airports, and an pond to taxes, and the figure for community awareness campaign was provided throughout investments includes all cash donations, as well the year for all company employees. as the estimated values of donations in kind and man hours used for volunteer projects. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY ASUR HAS A WRITTEN POLICY IN WHICH REPORT 2018 THE COMPANY FORMALLY SETS FORTH ITS COMMITMENT TO UPHOLDING AND PROMOTING 9.0 HUMAN RIGHTS THE COMPANY GUARANTEES ITS EMPLOYEES THE RIGHT TO PERSONAL INTEGRITY ASUR DOES NOT USE OR BENEFIT FROM FORCED LABOUR OR CHILD LABOUR OF ANY KIND 52 53 COMMITMENT TO The goal of ASUR’s management in relation to human rights is to ensure that HUMAN RIGHTS the company and its employees do not incur any human rights violations, and that in those cases where possible abuses are detected, the corresponding steps are taken to resolve them quickly, efficiently and transparently. COMMITMENT TO HUMAN RIGHTS ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 The Internal Auditing Department is entrusted During 2018, two complaints of sexual harassAccording to the company’s policy on human with investigating any potential human rights ment in the workplace were received, leading rights, ASUR does not use or benefit from abuses. The head of this Department reports to one dismissal; the second case was still unforced labour or child labour of any kind. directly to the Audit Committee, which is ulder investigation at yearend. Five reports of All working agreements are governed by timately responsible for enforcement of the non-sexual harassment were also received; consensual, written employment contracts, company’s policies on human rights. Internal one report was dismissed as unfounded, in and the company’s policy is not to employ campaigns are carried out on at least an antwo cases disciplinary proceedings were unanyone who is under 15 years of age. Currently, nual basis, in which employees are encouradertaken and the final two cases were still unno one under the age of 18 is employed by ged to use the company’s reporting system der investigation at yearend. ASUR and no situations involving forced to notify the Internal Auditing Department of labour have been identified. any rights abuses. The company has assumed the obligation to protect its employees’ right to freedom of asFinally, the company has the obligation to ASUR has a written policy in which the comsociation. As mentioned in Section 7.1 of this avoid any situations in which it might be pany formally sets forth its commitment to report, the company management and the complicit in human rights abuses; in practical upholding and promoting human rights. This airport workers’ union adhere to a regular coterms this means that no investments should 54 policy expressly states that the company will llective bargaining procedure to establish embe made in, or products and services procured 55 guarantee its employees the right to personal ployment conditions and benefits for unionised from, other companies that incur human-rights integrity, which means that workers may not employees. During 2018, no threats were identiviolations. During the period, no instances of be subjected to corporal punishment or verbal fied to the freedom of association or collective human rights violations have been identified abuse of any nature, and that sexual harassbargaining rights of the company’s employees. in the company’s supply chain. ment of any kind is strictly forbidden. The policy also represents a statement of the company’s position on gender equality and non-discrimination: it contains a clause that guarantees equal opportunity for all in hirings, promotions, salary levels, training and day-today treatment, regardless of ethnicity, nationality, gender, marital status, physical ability, religion, sexual orientation, social circumstances or political affiliation. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY ASUR WAS SELECTED AS REPORT 2018 ONE OF THE FIRST GROUP OF COMPANIES TO BE PART OF THE MEXICO STOCK EXCHANGE SUSTAINABILITY INDEX ASUR BECAME A SIGNATORY OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) IN 2005 10.0 56 57 EXTERNAL PROGRAMMES EXTERNAL PROGRAMMES ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 10.1 SUSTAINABILITY 10.1 UNITED NATIONS INDICES GLOBAL COMPACT In 2011, ASUR was selected as one of the first The Global Compact is a voluntary initiative FIGURE 14: group of companies to be part of the Mexiestablished by the United Nations to promote UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES co Stock Exchange Sustainability Index. To the values of social responsibility and respect be considered for inclusion in the index, comfor human rights in businesses around the panies’ practices and procedures in the areas world. ASUR became a signatory of the Uniof environment, governance and stakeholder ted Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2005, Principle Refer to issues are subject to a rigorous evaluation and the Chairman of ASUR’s Board of Direc1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of Section 8.0: Commitment to process, with the intention that the index can tors, Fernando Chico Pardo, held a position on internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights be used as a responsible-investment guide the UNGC’s Board of Directors between 2009 for ethical investors. As of the 31st of Decemand 2012. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit Section 8.0: Commitment to ber 2018, ASUR continues to form part of the in human rights abuses Human Rights Mexico Stock Exchange Sustainability Index. ASUR currently has a representative on the Section 6.1: Description of Steering Committee of the local network of 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Workforce the UNGC in Mexico. The company provides and the effective recognition of the right to collective Section 8.0: Commitment to funding for the activities of the UNGC at both bargaining 58 the national and international levels. Human Rights 59 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms Section 8.0: Commitment to The UNGC asks companies to embrace, suof forced and compulsory labour Human Rights pport and enact, within their sphere of in5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of Section 8.0: Commitment to fluence, a set of core values in the areas of child labour Human Rights human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption; these core values 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of Section 8.0: Commitment to are the Ten Principles. Below is a table that discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Human Rights states what the Ten Principles are and where 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach Section 5.0: Environmental they are addressed in the text of this report. to environmental challenges Responsibility 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Section 5.0: Environmental greater environmental responsibility Responsibility 9. Businesses should encourage the development and Section 5.0: Environmental diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Responsibility 10.Businesses should work against corruption in all its Section 7.3: Anticorruption forms, including extortion and bribery Measures ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 11.0 60 61 This report has been prepared in accordance with the G4 sustainability reporting guidelines and the Airport Operator Sector Supplement (AOSS) published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The Global Reporting Initiative is a network-based organisation that promotes the use of a standardised framework for sustainability reporting. In 2009 and 2010, ASUR participated in the GRI multidisciplinary working GRI STANDARD group that brought together representatives of airports from around the world and their stakeholders, and which produced the aforementioned sector DISCLOSURES supplement for the airport industry, published in 2011. AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Externally developed initiatives to which the Section 11.0: GRI Standard Disclosures G4-15 organisation subscribes or which it endorses and Performance Indicators Memberships of associations in which the organisation G4-16 holds a position on the governance body Section 10.0: External Programmes List of entities included in the organisation’s financial G4-17 statements or equivalent documents Section 2.4: Organisational Structure Below is an index of the GRI Standard Disclosures and Performance Indicators that are addressed in this report, and where the relevant information can be found in this document. Process for defining report content and aspect Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement G4-18 boundaries, and how the organisation has implemented and Identification of Material Aspects the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content FIGURE 15: G4-19 List of all material aspects identified in the process for Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement defining report content and Identification of Material Aspects INDEX OF GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS For each material aspect, aspect boundary within the Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement G4-20 organisation and Identification of Material Aspects For each material aspect, aspect boundary outside the Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement G4-21 organisation and Identification of Material Aspects GRI Reporting Description Refer to Parameter Effects of any restatements of information provided in Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations G4-22 previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements of Report STANDARD DISCLOSURES Significant changes from previous reporting periods in Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the G4-23 the scope and aspect boundaries of Report G4-1 organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the Section 2.0: Company Profile 62 organisation and its strategy 63 Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation and Identification of Material Aspects G4-3 Name of the organisation Section 2.1: Business Activities Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Section 2.0: Company Profile G4-25 with whom to engage and Identification of Material Aspects G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters Section 2.0: Company Profile Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement and Identification of Material Aspects Number and names of countries where the organisation G4-6 operates Section 2.3: Shareholder Structure Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement G4-27 stakeholder engagement and Identification of Material Aspects G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Section 2.5: Operating and Financial Data G4-28 Reporting period Section 3.0: Report Parameters G4-8 Markets served Section 2.4: Organisational Structure G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Section 3.0: Report Parameters G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation Section 2.5: Operating and Financial Data G4-30 Reporting cycle Section 3.0: Report Parameters Total workforce by employment type, employment G4-10 contract, and region Section 7.1: Description of Workforce Contact point for questions regarding the report or its G4-31 contents Section 3.0: Report Parameters Percentage of employees covered by collection G4-11 bargaining agreements Section 7.1: Description of Workforce Table identifying the location of the Standard Section 11.0: GRI Standard Disclosures G4-32 Disclosures in the report and Performance Indicators Section 2.8: Description of G4-12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain Company’s Value Chain Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Section 3.2: Scope and Limitations G4-33 external assurance for the report of Report Significant changes during the reporting period Section 2.6: Significant Changes in G4-13 regarding size, structure, or ownership Operations during Reporting Period G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation Section 4.0: Corporate Governance Section 3.1: Stakeholder Engagement Description of the organisation’s values, principles, G4-14 Precautionary principle and Identification of Material Aspects G4-56 standards and norms of behaviour, such as codes of Section 4.4: Code of Ethics conduct and codes of ethics GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI Reporting GRI Reporting Description Refer to Description Refer to Parameter Parameter DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Section 8.1: Direct and Indirect Economic Benefits Section 6.1: Significant Issues and DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Environment Management Strategy Significant financial assistance received from Section 8.1: Direct and Indirect G4-EC4 government Economic Benefits DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Labour Section 7.0: Quality of Life for Employees Total number and percentage of operations assessed Section 8.0: Community Involvement G4-SO3 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks Section 5.2: Anticorruption Measures DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Economic and Support identified Communication and training on anti-corruption policies Section 8.0: Community Involvement G4-SO4 Section 5.2: Anticorruption Measures DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Society and Support and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Section 5.2: Anticorruption Measures DMA Disclosure on Management Approach; Human Rights Section 9.0: Commitment to Human Rights G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Section 9.0: Commitment to Human Rights PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Operations and suppliers identified in which the right G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Section 6.2.5: Fuel Consumption to exercise freedom of association and collective G4-HR4 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and Section 9.0: Commitment to Human Rights Percentage of materials used that are recycled input measures taken to support these rights G4-EN2 materials Section 6.2.5: Fuel Consumption Operations and suppliers identified as having significant G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Section 6.2.2: Energy Efficiency G4-HR5 risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to Section 9.0: Commitment to Human Rights Section 6.2.5: Fuel Consumption contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Section 6.2.2: Energy Efficiency Operations and suppliers identified as having significant G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 64 Section 6.2.5: Fuel Consumption G4-HR6 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and Section 9.0: Commitment to Human Rights 65 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Section 6.2.3: Water Management Total number of passengers annually, broken down by Section 6.1: Significant Issues and G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse-gas emissions (Scope 1) passengers on international and domestic flights and Management Strategy AO1 broken down by origin-and-destination passengers and Section 2.5: Operating and Financial Data transfer, including transit, passengers Section 6.1: Significant Issues and G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse-gas emissions (Scope 2) Management Strategy Annual total number of aircraft movements by day and by AO2 night, broken down by commercial passenger, commercial Section 2.5: Operating and Financial Data G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Section 6.2.4: Waste Management cargo, general aviation and state aviation flights Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts of Section 2.6 Significant Changes in Quality of storm water by applicable regulatory G4-EN27 AO4 standards Section 6.2.3: Water Management products and services Operations during Reporting Period Aircraft and pavement de-icing / anti-icing fluid used AO6 and treated by m3 and/or tonnes Section 6.2.3: Water Management G4-EN29 Section 6.2.1: Mitigation of Infrastructure Expansion Section 6.4: Environmental Certification Total annual number of wildlife strikes per 10,000 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, AO9 aircraft movements Section 6.2.6: Biodiversity Issues G4-LA6 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of workSection 7.2: Safety in the Workplace related fatalities, by region ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY APPENDIX A REPORT 2018 ASUR ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE APPENDIX B 12.0 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 66 67 APPENDIX APPENDIX ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANEXO A: ASUR ENVIRONMENTAL Airport Objective Activities Measurement Progress / OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE Parameter Result Reforestation of green Planting of 230 local species of trees in forest Number of Oaxaca areas close to the airport trees planted 230 Percent Improve monitoring of Acquisition of scale for weighing hazardous Oaxaca waste generated and non-hazardous waste conclusion 100% of project Percent of Reduce generation of Recycling of ink and toner cartridges used in Oaxaca hazardous waste the airport cartridges 100% Measurement Progress / recycled Airport Objective Activities Parameter Result Improve quality Installation of specialised equipment for Percent Oaxaca of discharged treatment of sewage discharged by terminal conclusion 100% Reduce environmental Percent wastewater building of project LEED platinum level certification for buildings Cancún footprint of airport and facilities of new Terminal 4 conclusion 80% Removal of illegal rubbish dump outside the facilities of project Percent Protect nature zones perimeter fence of the airport, in coordination Oaxaca close to the airport with local authorities of neighbouring conclusion 100% Improve quality Percent of project Upgrades to improve filtering and purification community Cancún of discharged of wastewater treated at plant in Terminal 2 conclusion 100% wastewater of project Treatment of trees on airport property Percent Protect nature zones Improve quality Percent Oaxaca close to the airport to eliminate blight that might spread to conclusion 100% Upgrades to improve filtering and purification neighbouring areas of project Cancún of discharged of wastewater treated at plant in Terminal 3 conclusion 100% wastewater of project Improve quality Installation of specialised equipment for Percent Replacement of incandescent bulbs with Percent Tapachula of discharged treatment of sewage discharged by terminal conclusion 100% Reduce consumption wastewater building of project Cozumel of electricity light fixtures using LED technology in airside conclusion 100% arrivals and departures areas of project Improve nonImplementation of various measures to Percent Programmed replacement of air conditioning Tapachula hazardous waste strengthen processes for sorting and recycling conclusion 100% Reduce harmful Percent handling system non-hazardous solid waste of project equipment that uses R22 gas and/or Cozumel emissions into the conclusion 100% 68 atmosphere replacement of this gas with other more of project Reduce or Implementation of various measures to 69 environmentally friendly refrigerants Percent change Veracruz maintain electricity maintain electricity consumption at the same in consumption -6.3% Installation of 11 additional valves to better Percent consumption level as previous year, or reduce it further Improve measurement Huatulco of water use monitor in which areas of the airport water is conclusion 100% used of project Avoid environmental Fortnightly site inspections throughout Number of Veracruz contamination with airfield to ensure compliance with operational inspections 24 Installation of 6 additional meters to better Percent harmful substances controls carried out Improve measurement Huatulco of water use monitor in which areas of the airport water is conclusion 100% used of project Percent Reduce consumption Awareness campaign to achieve a rational use Veracruz of paper of paper in administrative tasks conclusion 100% Installation of specialised equipment for Percent of project Improve hazardous Huatulco waste handling system treatment of blue water discharged from conclusion 100% aircraft of project Reduce consumption Percent Awareness campaign to dissuade airport Veracruz of polystyrene community from using polystyrene articles conclusion 100% Installation of specialised equipment for Percent (Styrofoam) of project Improve wastewater Huatulco handling system treatment of sewage discharged by terminal conclusion 100% building of project Promote Number of environmental Five presentations to students at local schools Implementation of various measures to Percent Veracruz awareness in on the theme of environmental protection presentations 5 Increase amount of given Mérida recycled waste reinforce processes for sorting and recycling increase in 66.5% community of non-hazardous solid waste waste recycled Promote environmental Number of One event with members of local communities Replacement of incandescent bulbs with light Percent Veracruz awareness in on the theme of environmental protection events carried 1 Reduce consumption community out Mérida of electricity fixtures using LED technology in baggage conclusion 100% reclaim area of project Percent Recycling of nonRecycle 3% more non-hazardous waste Improve hazardous Installation of bins for disposal of Percent Villahermosa hazardous waste compared to previous year increase in 9.5% Mérida waste handling system alkali batteries in terminal building and conclusion 100% waste recycled administrative offices of project Percent Programme to give away 1,200 small fruit trees Number of Reduce consumption Replacement of 20% of existing lighting with Reforestation of green Villahermosa of electricity LED technology conclusion 100% Minatitlán areas to employees, airport community and general plants give 1,464 of project public for planting away Installation of solar water heater for showers Percent Recycling of nonTons of waste Reduce consumption Minatitlán Recycling of 2.5 tons of non-hazardous waste 2.5 Villahermosa of fossil fuels and bathrooms in Airport Rescue and Fire conclusion 100% hazardous waste recycled Fighting facility of project APPENDIX ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANEXO B: CANCÚN AIRPORT ENVIRONMENTAL TOTAL FIGURES Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 INDICATORS (‘18 vs ‘17) Total water consumption m 3 549,002 503,963 438,499 -13.0% Total water discharged m 3 255,304 337,384 342,860 1.6% Total electricity consumption kWh 65,092,173 71,235,808 84,460,554 18.6% GJ 234,332 256,449 304,058 18.6% ASUR ALL AIRPORTS Total hazardous waste produced kg 5,229 3,166 5,138 62.3% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 5,544.5 5,817.8 6,142.6 5.6% Non-hazardous waste recycled 865.9 987.6 993.7 0.6% % non-hazardous waste recycled 16% 17% 16% TOTAL FIGURES Total fuel consumption l 293,793 319,670 336,906 5.4% Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Total water consumption m 3 870,931 825,475 755,612 -8.5% PER-PASSENGER BASIS Unit % change Total water discharged m3 329,390 422,323 417,450 -1.2% Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Total electricity consumption kWh 91,293,333 98,843,472 111,744,821 13.1% Water consumption per passenger l/pax 25.5 21.3 17.4 -18.5% GJ 328,656 355,836 402,281 13.1% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 11.9 14.2 13.6 -4.8% Total hazardous waste produced kg 15,399 17,319 15,655 -9.6% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 3.0 3.0 3.3 11.1% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 6,194.7 6,450.6 6,796.3 5.4% MJ/pax 10.9 10.8 12.0 11.1% Non-hazardous waste recycled 919.2 1,046.2 1,066.6 1.9% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.2 0.1 0.2 52.1% % non-hazardous waste recycled 15% 16% 16% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.26 0.25 0.24 -1.1% 70 71 Total fuel consumption l 541,449 570,733 604,608 5.9% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 13.7 13.5 13.3 -1.2% COZUMEL AIRPORT PER-PASSENGER BASIS TOTAL FIGURES Unit % change Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Total water consumption m 3 32,421 33,058 24,417 -26.1% Water consumption per passenger l/pax 30.4 26.4 22.6 -14.4% Total water discharged m 3 18,223 27,155 15,764 -41.9% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 11.5 13.5 12.5 -7.5% Total electricity consumption kWh 2,624,894 2,528,402 2,484,775 -1.7% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 3.2 3.2 3.3 5.7% GJ 9,450 9,102 8,945 -1.7% MJ/pax 11.5 11.4 12.1 5.7% Total hazardous waste produced kg 4,185 5,349 2,879 -46.2% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.5 0.6 0.5 -15.4% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 42 40 48 21.3% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.22 0.21 0.20 -1.5% Non-hazardous waste recycled 13 16 19 18.7% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 18.9 18.3 18.1 -0.9% % non-hazardous waste recycled 32% 41% 40% Total fuel consumption l 20,573 19,520 17,150 -12.1% PER-PASSENGER BASIS Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 59.4 60.3 41.6 -31.0% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 33.4 49.5 26.9 -45.8% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 4.8 4.6 4.2 -8.3% MJ/pax 17.3 16.6 15.2 -8.3% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 7.7 9.8 4.9 -49.8% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.08 0.07 0.08 13.3% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 37.7 35.6 29.2 -18.0% APPENDIX ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 HUATULCO AIRPORT MINATITLÁN AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES Unit % change TOTAL FIGURES Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Total water consumption m 3 19,850 19,851 15,436 -22.2% Total water consumption m 3 10,348 10,233 10,803 5.6% Total water discharged m 3 8,677 8,937 8,304 -7.1% Total water discharged m 3 5,225 5,490 6,402 16.6% Total electricity consumption kWh 1,694,420 1,698,210 1,732,165 2.0% Total electricity consumption kWh 642,288 653,376 698,899 7.0% GJ 6,100 6,114 6,236 2.0% GJ 2,312 2,352 2,516 7.0% Total hazardous waste produced kg 881 1,146 1,860 62.3% Total hazardous waste produced kg 773 697 436 -37.4% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 65 62 70 11.8% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 6 5 5 -13.2% Non-hazardous waste recycled 5 5 7 58.9% Non-hazardous waste recycled 3 3 3 -17.4% % non-hazardous waste recycled 7% 8% 11% % non-hazardous waste recycled 54% 58% 56% Total fuel consumption l 23,383 37,870 27,744 -26.7% Total fuel consumption l 34,132 20,062 30,940 54.2% PER-PASSENGER BASIS Unit % change PER-PASSENGER BASIS Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 29.8 25.5 18.8 -26.3% Water consumption per passenger l/pax 43.8 50.4 60.4 19.9% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 13.0 11.5 10.1 -11.9% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 22.1 27.0 32.3 19.5% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 2.5 2.2 2.1 -3.3% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 2.7 3.2 3.5 9.6% MJ/pax 9.1 7.8 7.6 -3.3% MJ/pax 9.8 11.6 12.7 9.6% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.3 1.5 2.3 53.9% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 3.3 3.4 2.2 -35.8% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.10 0.08 0.08 6.0% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.02 0.03 0.02 -11.1% 72 73 Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 35.1 48.6 33.8 -30.5% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 144.5 98.8 156.1 58.1% MÉRIDA AIRPORT OAXACA AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES Unit % change TOTAL FIGURES Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Total water consumption m 3 149,353 148,022 148,895 0.6% Total water consumption m 3 18,079 20,156 27,958 38.7% Total water discharged m 3 1,884 1,240 1,755 41.5% Total water discharged m 3 11,475 12,340 12,133 -1.7% Total electricity consumption kWh 8,040,489 9,881,368 10,058,008 1.8% Total electricity consumption kWh 1,270,864 1,350,779 1,327,879 -1.7% GJ 28,946 35,573 36,209 1.8% GJ 4,575 4,863 4,780 -1.7% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,631 1,488 2,878 93.4% Total hazardous waste produced kg 440 1,026 731 -28.8% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 66 68 92 35.0% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 99 115 118 2.2% Non-hazardous waste recycled 0 2 4 66.5% Non-hazardous waste recycled 4 4 8 81.8% % non-hazardous waste recycled 0% 3% 4% % non-hazardous waste recycled 4% 4% 7% Total fuel consumption l 37,667 43,058 45,020 4.6% Total fuel consumption l 28,055 26,263 30,546 16.3% PER-PASSENGER BASIS Unit % change PER-PASSENGER BASIS Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 75.6 68.2 60.4 -11.4% Water consumption per passenger l/pax 23.6 22.9 29.0 26.9% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 1.0 0.6 0.7 24.7% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 15.0 14.0 12.6 -10.0% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 4.1 4.6 4.1 -10.3% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 1.7 1.5 1.4 -10.0% MJ/pax 14.6 16.4 14.7 -10.3% MJ/pax 6.0 5.5 5.0 -10.0% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.8 0.7 1.2 70.4% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.6 1.2 0.8 -34.8% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.03 0.03 0.04 18.9% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.13 0.13 0.12 -6.4% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 19.1 19.8 18.3 -7.9% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 36.6 29.8 31.7 6.4% APPENDIX TAPACHULA AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Total water consumption m 3 17,565 14,905 11,771 -21.0% Total water discharged m 3 10,121 4,816 6,056 25.7% Total electricity consumption kWh 1,550,558 1,543,765 1,633,051 5.8% GJ 5,582 5,558 5,879 5.8% Total hazardous waste produced kg 360 1,202 423 -64.8% VILLAHERMOSA AIRPORT Total non-hazardous waste produced t 43 48 46 -5.8% Non-hazardous waste recycled 0 2 2 -22.3% % non-hazardous waste recycled 0% 5% 4% Total fuel consumption l 23,340 18,511 28,702 55.1% TOTAL FIGURES Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) PER-PASSENGER BASIS Unit % change Total water consumption m 3 37,566 36,643 38,143 4.1% Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Total water discharged m 3 11,480 14,200 13,706 -3.5% Water consumption per passenger l/pax 55.8 49.9 34.9 -30.0% Total electricity consumption kWh 4,234,642 3,990,117 3,761,522 -5.7% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 32.2 16.1 18.0 11.4% GJ 15,245 14,364 13,541 -5.7% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 4.9 5.2 4.8 -6.3% Total hazardous waste produced kg 1,292 2,036 854 -58.1% MJ/pax 17.7 18.6 17.4 -6.3% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 161 148 126 -14.6% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.1 4.0 1.3 -68.8% Non-hazardous waste recycled 6 12 13 9.5% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.14 0.16 0.14 -16.6% % non-hazardous waste recycled 4% 8% 11% 74 Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 74.2 62.0 85.2 37.4% Total fuel consumption l 29,987 31,306 35,709 14.1% VERACRUZ AIRPORT TOTAL FIGURES Unit % change PER-PASSENGER BASIS Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Total water consumption m3 36,747 38,644 39,690 2.7% Water consumption per passenger l/pax 29.7 28.7 30.8 7.5% Total water discharged m3 7,001 10,761 10,470 -2.7% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 9.1 11.1 11.1 -0.3% Total electricity consumption kWh 6,143,005 5,961,647 5,587,968 -6.3% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 3.3 3.1 3.0 -2.6% GJ 22,115 21,462 20,117 -6.3% MJ/pax 12.1 11.2 10.9 -2.6% Total hazardous waste produced kg 608 1,210 457 -62.2% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 1.0 1.6 0.7 -56.7% Total non-hazardous waste produced t 167 146 150 2.6% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.13 0.12 0.10 -11.8% Non-hazardous waste recycled 22 13 17 24.9% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 23.7 24.5 28.9 17.8% % non-hazardous waste recycled 13% 9% 11% Total fuel consumption l 50,519 54,474 51,891 -4.7% PER-PASSENGER BASIS Unit % change Parameter mmt 2016 2017 2018 (‘18 vs ‘17) Water consumption per passenger l/pax 27.5 27.8 26.3 -5.4% Water discharged per passenger l/pax 5.2 7.8 6.9 -10.4% Electricity consumption per passenger kWh/pax 4.6 4.3 3.7 -13.7% MJ/pax 16.5 15.5 13.4 -13.7% Hazardous waste produced per passenger g/pax 0.5 0.9 0.3 -65.2% Non-hazardous waste produced per passenger kg/pax 0.13 0.11 0.10 -5.5% Fuel consumption per passenger ml/pax 37.8 39.2 34.4 -12.3%
