FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 bility si uct ronment rod respon P Envi ec my society ono CONTENT Franke Group Sustainability report 2018 4 CEO statement 6 Group profile 8 UN Sustainability Goals: Our contribution 10 Strategy and value chain 12 Sustainability management 17 Environmental Responsibility 20 Energy efficiency in production 22 Water, waste water 23 Materials efficiency in production 25 Resource-efficient products 27 Story: Reduction in waste volume 29 Social Responsibility 34 Leadership development 35 Occupational health and safety 37 Story: Local initiatives internally and externally 39 Economical Responsibility 41 Profitability 42 Business integrity 43 Human rights 44 Story: Supporting Switzerland as a research hub 47 Product Responsibility 49 Product reliability and longevity 50 Product safety 51 Product innovation 52 Story: Energy consumption reduced by one third 55 Annex 57 Reporting parameters 59 GRI content index 63 Contact 3 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONTENT CEO STATEMENT and anti-corruption have been an essential foundation Other highlights from the reporting period include the has only been possible by working together. We would for our corporate practices. In 2017, we added another new global leadership development programs for our like to thank all our employees and partners for their item to the list and also assigned our sustainability managers. We launched these programs in 2018 together daily commitment and the many measures they have report to the United Nations’ sustainable development with an external partner the aim being to ensure all implemented. goals. Out of the total 17 Sustainable Development our leaders complete a course from the program offering Goals (SDGs), we focus, in particular, on eleven goals. depending on their organizational level. Our managers Kind regards, We have focused this selection based on the question of are a crucial component for improving the employee where we can make a maximum contribution based on engagement rate: They are key multipliers for conveying Patrik Wohlhauser our business activities. our corporate strategy and business goals. Therefore, President/CEO Franke Group they must be able to communicate skillfully, align a team with common goals and customer needs, and support For the third year in a row, on-the-job development. we have been able to reduce On the product side, we also made progress within Dear Readers, the framework of our sustainability efforts. A very good our CO2 emissions example is the Mythos 2gether induction hob with an Make It Wonderful – this is our brand promise to cusintegrated extractor hood launched at the international tomers, business partners and employees. For over EuroCucina 2018 trade fair. It achieves the highest four years, it has shaped the corporate culture of Franke As a world-leading supplier of products and solutions energy efficiency class A+++. Our KWC Monta tap line is Group both internally and externally. Together with for foodservice systems, equipping household kitchens, also very sustainable, enabling a smart use of resources: Franke’s value “Be Accountable” and as an international private bathrooms, semi-public and public washrooms Thanks to the CoolFix setting, cold water flows in the manufacturing company, Make It Wonderful also repand for professional coffee preparation, energy and remost frequently used middle position of the operating resents our commitment to taking responsibility for our source consumption is a key topic for us. After all, food lever. Hot water only flows when the lever is turned global value chain. As a family business, thinking across preparation and housing are, alongside mobility, the to the left. This allows a very sparing use of hot water. generations has been another important pillar of our ultimate consumers of resources and as a globally acting efforts to achieve sustainability for 108 years. industrial company, we therefore use our influence on these areas in terms of ecological, social and economic aspects. In addition, our commitment is towards the We will not stay complacent As an international development, manufacturing and use of our products. In order to live up to this claim, we took actions on a with our achievements to manufacturing company, variety of measures in the period under review. date and will continue to work we are committed to The significantly improved CO2 footprint at Franke is consistently on further driving taking responsibility for very positive. For the third year in a row, we have been able to reduce our CO2 emissions. Since 2015, they our sustainability efforts our global value chain have fallen by almost one third (32 %). The figure again dropped by 7.3 percent in the year under review. This success is primarily attributable to the switch to renewAs in previous years, we achieved a great deal in the able or low-carbon energy sources for new buildings year under review. However, there is always room for Since 2011, we have systematically expanded and and conversions, e.g. heat pumps, recovered heat from improvement. We invite you to get your own impression intensified our numerous sustainability activities. Back production processes, district heating or energy-saving of our numerous achievements and activities in the then, we joined the United Nations Global Compact LED technology. Further, the consolidation of the global past financial year. One thing is certain: We will not stay (UNGC). Ever since, the ten principles for sustainable synthetic sink production of Franke Kitchen Systems complacent with our achievements to date and will conand responsible corporate management relating to at a new plant in Slovakia generates significantly lower tinue to work consistently and systematically on further human rights, labor standards, environmental protection emissions. driving our sustainability efforts. The progress to date 4 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CEO STATEMENT 5 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CEO STATEMENT GROUP PROFILE Franke Group is comprised of Franke Kitchen Systems, Faber Hoods & Net Sales 2018 Locations worldwide Organization Cooking Systems, Franke Foodservice Systems, Franke Water Systems and BY DIVISION Franke Group has production Board of Directors Franke Coffee Systems divisions. The Group employs over 9,000 people sites and/or its own companies in 40 countries. Christian Mäder, Chairman Alexander Pieper, Vice Chairman worldwide and achieved consolidated net sales of CHF 2.1 billion in 2018. Patrick Naef The head office is in Aarburg, Michael Pieper Switzerland. Dr. Michael Reinhard Divisions Figures IN MIO CHF Europe (22 countries) Management Board – 7.3% Franke Kitchen Systems 687 Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Patrik Wohlhauser, President/CEO Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Franke Kitchen Systems Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems 341 Greece, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Integrated systems for food preparation Franke Foodservice Systems 671 Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Group Functions and cooking, including sinks, taps, Franke Water Systems 237 Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Finance Jürg Fischer worktops, hoods and cooking appliances Franke Coffee Systems 246 Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom Human Resources Beat Sigrist Operations Gianluca Mapelli Reduction in CO2 emissions Corporate/Consolidation Total –65 2,117 Information Services Markus Bierl 2018 vs. 2017 Americas (5 countries) Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Legal & Compliance Martin Wyser – 31.4% Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems BY REGION Mexico, USA Expert in exhaust air cleaning, extractor Divisions hoods and cooking technology Franke Kitchen Systems Asia/Oceania (8 countries) Barbara Borra Australia, China/Hong Kong, India, Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems Japan, Kazakhstan, Philippines, Singapore, Ettore Zoboli Thailand Franke Foodservice Systems Reduction in lost days due Christian Mathesius Franke Foodservice Systems to occupational diseases and IN % Africa/Middle East (5 countries) Franke Water Systems Roger Basler Kitchen appliances, accessories and spare parts as well as a wide range of accidents 2018 vs. 2017 Europe 58.3 Egypt, Morocco, South Africa, Tunisia, Franke Coffee Systems Americas 25.5 + 2.0% United Arab Emirates Patrik Wohlhauser (ad interim) services for leading restaurant chains Asia/Oceania 10.1 Africa/Middle East 6.1 Employees by Brands Franke Water Systems region 2018 Integrated systems for private, semipublic and public washrooms, including Increase in net sales 2018 vs. 2017 Franke bkon Carron Chain Link Services Dart Valley Systems taps, showers, sinks, accessories and 91.9% water management systems Dominox Elikor Easi Serv Franke Coffee Systems Eurodomo Faber Facility Solutions A comprehensive range of coffee machines for making coffee outside Production sites with quality IN % Europe 60.7 Inc FIFO Kindred KWC Mamoli the home, including fully automatic and traditional coffee machines management certification Americas 16.4 Mepamsa Newair Nokite Roblin S2K Sertek Spar Asia/Oceania 17.1 and coffee brewers in 2018 Africa/Middle East 5.8 6 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GROUP PROFILE 7 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GROUP PROFILE UN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: OUR CONTRIBUTION Since 2017, Franke Group has focused its sustainability efforts on OVERVIEW OF THE ELEVEN SDGS AFFECTED the 17 Global Sustainability Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations (UN). We believe that, as a company, we can make a substantial Environmental Responsibility contribution to achieving eleven of these goals. Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. In 2015, the UN member states formulated a series of goals to protect the Earth, reduce poverty and ensure prosperity for as many people as possible. With their Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. global orientation, these 17 SDGs serve as a guideline for jointly tackling the most urgent challenges on this way, we were able to make our contribution to the Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat the planet within the international community. Achieving SDGs more concrete. desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. these goals by 2030 also depends to a large extent on the actions of global companies. Franke Group (Franke) In a next step, the identified SDGs were embedded into Social Responsibility accepts this responsibility and wants to play its part in our four reporting areas (Ecology, Social Responsibility, sustainable development. Economy and Product Responsibility). Specific activities Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. were therefore allocated to the SDGs. This systematic development helps us to identify our risks and opportuni­We are committed to finding ties in relation to the SDGs and to better define corresponding indicators, measures and targets. Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. future-looking solutions Franke sees sustainability not only as a social obliAchieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. gation, but also as an essential component of its longIntegration of the SDGs into Franke’s term corporate success. In recent years, we have sustainability ambitions already achieved a great deal in this area and are com­Economical Responsibility Based on the materiality analysis according to the mitted to consistently improving our activities for the GRI standard, Franke has identified twelve key topics it benefit of our numerous stakeholders and the environ­ Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. focuses on in its sustainability management. We have ment, increasing our efficiency and finding new, forwardexamined the extent to which these issues support the looking solutions. UN sustainability goals. Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. Kirill Bourovoi The analysis results in a list of eleven SDGs (see chart Manager Sustainability Franke Group on the right) localized along our value-added chain. In Head of Learning & Development Franke Group Product Responsibility Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. 8 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 UN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: OUR CONTRIBUTION 9 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 UN SUSTAINABILITY GOALS: OUR CONTRIBUTION STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN Our strategic business areas have one thing in common: They are resourceTHE FRANKE VALUE CHAIN intensive and have a significant impact on the environment. After all, food preparation and housing are, along with mobility, the most important areas Supply chain Locations Products of mankind’s resource consumption. Our business model Longevity of our products Raw materials Components Manufacturing Sales User Recycling Franke’s five divisions operate in four business segFood preparation, sanitary and hygiene technology as ments and are divided into two areas: Kitchen & Sanitary well as accommodation are essential aspects of everySystems and Water Management & Hygiene, providing day living. As a result, our products correspond with solutions in both commercial and private sectors. In the intensity of use and the associated resources required commercial segment, everything revolves around equipare considerable. To counteract energy and resource our products are designed for long-term use, reliability health and safety of all people who come into contact ping kitchens for the food service sector and semi-public consumption in both private and commercial sectors and and repairability: For example, the recommended service with our products in our area of responsibility. and public washrooms with integrated systems, as well protect our brand, Franke’s products are designed to life of a private kitchen in Switzerland is 20 to 25 years. as coffee preparation outside the home. In the private make a difference in the environment and communities. Baths, showers and toilets must be designed for a con­ This means the health of our employees, work-life balance segment, the main focus is on equipping household sumer life of 30 years. Therefore, compared to other as well as the safety of our products throughout their kitchens with integrated kitchen systems for food prepaAs our products are used for a comparatively long time, areas of the consumer goods industry (e.g. household service life. This is because our products influence food ration, cooking and exhaust air cleaning, as well as private this has a positive impact on the energy and raw mategoods, cosmetics, electronics), kitchen and sanitary during food preparation (e.g. ovens and hobs) and the bathrooms with taps and accessories. rial footprint over a product’s entire life cycle. Many of technology has long life cycles. cleanliness of the water (e.g. taps and filters) or the air (e.g. extractor hoods). Gastronomy, for example, is an important Sustainability along our value chain consumer of resources. In addition to our customers, such The sustainable consumption of resources in the develas fast-food chains, DIY stores or kitchen and bathroom OUR STRATEGIC AREAS opment and production of our products and the effects dealerships, other major customers also rely on our prodon climate change are central themes of our strategy. As ucts: As a globally active original equipment manufacturer, Commercial Residential a manufacturing company, we have a great responsibility we are partners of global companies and our actions towards the environment but also towards our employcan have a positive impact on their resource efficiency. Restaurant Kitchen ees and our owners. Outlook We influence people and the environment along our We take a long-term perspective beyond our products: Food and beverage entire value-added chain and product life cycle. BeginSustainability is a central pillar of our business strategy. preparation LANDLORD BUSINESS OWNER HOME OWNER LANDLORD ning with the mining and production of raw materials, to Franke has set itself the goal of being the world’s leading Franke Foodservice Systems Franke Kitchen Systems transport and logistics, the countless suppliers of semisupplier of systems for food & beverage preparation and Franke Coffee Systems Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems finished products and components for our products, water management & hygiene, to grow organically and production and distribution, to actual use and disposal through acquisitions and to continuously improve profWashroom Bath or recycling. Across all levels, we work hard to optimize itability. Franke’s management and the company owner processes and all resources involved in producing and build on a long-term approach and are aware of their distributing our products. responsibility towards the environment, society and the Water management economy. “For me, sustainability means fairness towards and hygiene LANDLORD BUSINESS OWNER HOME OWNER LANDLORD In addition, the upstream and downstream processes, future generations,” says Michael Pieper, owner of Franke. from maintenance to kitchen accessories and, ultimately, “In everything we do, we should be able to look our Franke Water Systems Franke Water Systems the type of food used or the way it is prepared, have an children and grandchildren in the eye with a clear conimpact. At Franke, we also include topics such as the science. Acting sustainably is therefore a must.” 10 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN 11 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN the Management Board of Franke. Specific concerns  Code of conduct: Legislation, occupational safety, SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT can be brought to the attention of the Board of Directors in this way. basic labor standards against child labor, forced labor and dis­crimination, sexual harassment in the workplace, anti-corruption, gifts and entertainment, theft, Relationship between payment and company fraud and dishonesty and disclosure of information. performance The code of conduct applies worldwide and is available The remuneration of the members of the Board of Direcon the intranet in 13 languages. In December 2018, a tors is independent of the Group’s performance. revised version was released. In addition, an “integrity line” has been rolled out for all employees, which The members of the Franke Management Board, like other they can contact confidentially and anonymously if employees, receive incentives through a combination they have concerns about integrity. of personal and financial objectives. Depending on the Code of conduct for suppliers: Minimum requirements Franke’s existing management structures ensure that Franke is well positioned function, personal targets may be linked to social and for labor practices, environmental protection and busienvironmental performance. ness integrity to be met by all suppliers. The supplier from a governance perspective. They are explained in more detail below code was also adopted by the Franke Management with regard to sustainable aspects. We also present the corresponding internal Mechanisms by which the Board of Directors Board. avoids conflicts of interest Group policy: Equal opportunities and diversity, guidelines and the most important stakeholders. How conflicts of interest of the members of the Board employee relations, personal safety and emergency of Directors can be avoided is defined in the code of planning, business travel, information security. conduct and specified in the organizational regulations. Sustainability principles: internally defined framework Members of the Board of Directors may not participate for improving the economic, ecological and social in any matters affecting their personal interests or those performance of Franke. Management structure, committees reporting to The Management Board of Franke consists of ten memof any affiliate or person closely linked to them. the Board of Directors bers. More details on the relevant management structure Monitoring of the sustainability performance by Franke has a three-level management structure: can be found here: General principles and code of conduct the Board of Directors Various sustainability topics are the subject of policies. The Audit Committee discusses risks and opportunities ▸ www.artemis-holding.com ▸ About us A series of internal policies address sustainability and relevant to Franke as part of the annual risk report to be Board of Directors of Artemis Holding AG (Artemis Group) business ethics matters: approved. 6 members ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Group Structure Board of directors of Franke Holding AG (Franke) Separation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND CODES OF CONDUCT 5 members from the Management Board Thomas A. Erb, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Artemis Holding AG, is neither a member of the Artemis Supplier Code of Conduct Management Board of Franke Holding AG (Franke) Minimum requirements regarding 10 members Group nor of the Franke management boards. Two out employment practices, environmental of five members of the Board of Directors of Franke protection and business integrity that Holding AG are members of the Artemis Group Managemust be met by all our suppliers. The ment Board. Code of Conduct Supplier Code was also approved by Legal compliance the Franke Management Board. The purpose, duties and responsibilities of each body Health and Safety are defined in the articles of association and the organi­ Independent members of the Board of Directors Fundamental labor standards zational regulations. The members of the boards of No member of the Board of Directors of Artemis Holding against child/forced labor and directors of Artemis Holding AG and Franke Holding AG AG and its committees is involved in the operating discrimination Sustainability Principles are responsible for the strategic direction of Artemis management of the company. Two of the five members Prevention of sexual harassment Equal opportunity and diversity Anti-corruption Employee relations Group and Franke and have various non-transferable and of the Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG hold Rules for dealing with gifts and Personal safety and emergency irrevocable duties in accordance with the Swiss Code executive positions in Artemis Group (but not in Franke). entertainment planning of Obligations. Prevention of theft, fraud and disBusiness travel Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to honesty as well as rules concerning Information security The Board of Directors of Artemis Holding AG has six address recommendations to the Board of Directors the disclosure of information members. By the end of 2018, the Board of Directors Michael Pieper, owner and President/CEO of Artemis The Code applies worldwide and had three standing committees: an Audit Committee, Group, is in regular dialog with the Board of Directors is available on the intranet in Sustainability Principles an Information Security Committee (IS Committee) and of Artemis Holding AG and is a member of the Board of 13 languages. Internally defined framework for a Human Resources Committee (HR Committee). The Directors of Franke Holding AG. improving the economic, environ­mental Board of Directors and the committees met regularly In addition, an integrity line that can and social performance of Franke. be used by all employees to report in 2018. Since January 1, 2019, these committees have There are no employee representatives in the boards integrity concerns in a confidential been made up of the five-member Board of Directors of of directors. The employee representatives of the and anonymous manner was rolled Franke Holding AG. Since then, the Board of Directors Euro­pean companies meet regularly at the Franke out in 2013. of Artemis Holding AG no longer has any committees. Forum (European Works Council) with members of 12 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 STRATEGY AND VALUE CHAIN 13 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Evaluation of the sustainability performance of management positions at Swiss companies through MOST IMPORTANT STAKEHOLDERS 2018 the Board of Directors a series of specific measures There is no formal procedure for evaluating the performance of the Board of Directors from a holistic sustainRelevant stakeholders Customer insights: Structured interviews Consultation with and inclusion of the ability perspective. Franke considers the following stakeholders to be with end-consumers as well as online panels neighbors of production sites in larger and focus groups in various countries are construction projects. relevant: conducted by external service providers and Local Precautionary approach Customers and consumers our customer insights department in communities, Outsourcing of work such as authorities, assembling and packaging The precautionary principle plays an important role for Employees order to better understand the needs of media, Franke as a production and distribution company. The Suppliers and business partners our customers. regulators of products to institutions that Customers and provide home and work for precautionary principle is also expressed in the manage­Local communities, media, authorities, supervisory consumers disabled adults by different Franke Customer contacts: Franke service ment systems (quality, environment, occupational safebodies technicians working in the field are in companies. ty) that are implemented at the various sites. In the opPotential future employees day-to-day contact with kitchen studios, erating area, the precautionary principle is implemented Owners architects, restaurant owners, real estate by pursuing preventive approaches in the areas of developers, etc. Our key account managers Career days: Participation in dedicated to large customers in order to betenvironmental protection, occupational safety and quality Basis for selecting the stakeholders recruitment days at universities. ter serve their needs. Potential future assurance. Franke has a comprehensive system for Franke is aware that the company interacts with various employees Presentation of case studies the control and management of all risks associated with stakeholders. The above stakeholders were se­lected as Trade shows: Franke businesses are present at universities and support of at leading trade shows in many countries its business activities. Based on the ISO 31000 stansignificant for a systematic stakeholder dialog because university projects. in order to display new products and foster dard, Risk Management forms the interface between all they fulfill at least one of the following two criteria: They customer relations. management systems. All Franke companies have clearly exert a strong influence on Franke’s economic, environ­ defined contingency planning in place and conduct an mental or social performance and/or are strongly influSuppliers and business partners annual risk analysis in which key risks are identified. All enced by Franke’s economic, environmental or social Franke Forum: Annual meeting of initial contact as part of the supplier the employee representatives of the European pre-screening and evaluation production companies must also have an emergency performance. Suppliers and process, mainly on issues related management plan in place to ensure a rapid and compecompanies with a member of business partners the Franke Management Board. to quality and lead time. tent response in the event of an emergency. In addition, Approaches for stakeholder interaction Regular discussions between our employees on business trips are supported by an Dialog with external stakeholders is currently highly Consultation of the various works councils buyers and suppliers, both on site external intervention specialist in crisis situations. decentralized. We continue to be working on formalizing at plant level by the local Human Resources organization and/or local management. and in the context of audits. the interaction with the representatives of the relevant External agreements and initiatives stakeholders and aim to establish a structured process Communication through internal Franke has been an active member of the UN Global Comfor dialog by 2020. channels such as the CEO letter, Since the owner of Franke is employee magazine or intranet. Employees the CEO/President of Artemis pact since January 2011. We also participate in the acti­ Owner Group (holding company of vities of the local Global Compact network in Switzerland. Reaction to key issues and stakeholder interests Employees attend an introductory Franke), he is well-informed and Sustainability issues are increasingly becoming the program when joining the company consulted on major strategic ▸ www.unglobalcompact.org focus of discussions with both internal and external Engagement opportunities and employee decisions. stakeholders. The following central topics and interests participation at plant level By voluntarily applying the guidelines of the Global are addressed in particular: Reporting Initiative for Sustainability Reporting (new GRI Requirements of major customers for our sustainability standard), we aim to contribute to transparency and standards: Surveys on sustainability management, comparability in sustainability reporting. certifications at Franke, etc. Environmental Responsibility Legal form, company size and markets Instructions on how Franke products support building Energy efficiency in production Franke Holding AG (Franke) is a joint-stock company Membership in associations and organizations standards compliance: We apply the LEED and Minergie Water, waste water under Swiss law and is 100 percent owned by Artemis Franke is active in a number of industry associations and building standards criteria to some of our products Materials efficiency in production Holding AG (Artemis Group). initiatives in various countries. Many of these organi­za­ to determine which of our products best meet these Resource-efficient products tions deal with sustainability issues, for example by definstandards. In 2018, Franke, with 68 branches and 9,362 employing best practice standards or developing product labels. Operational Excellence program: Achieving excellence Social Responsibility ees (full-time equivalents), generated sales of US Green Building Council (USGBC) an organization and meeting social and environmental standards Leadership development CHF 2,117.2 million. The balance sheet total amounted committed to a sustainable future through cost-effecthrough the systematic management of operational Occupational health and safety to CHF 2,063.5 million as at the end of 2018. The equity tive and energy-efficient buildings. USGBC is respon­ safety, reliability, efficiency and total cost reductions ratio was 52.6% in 2018. Franke’s products are sold sible for the LEED building standard. through the Franke-wide Operational Excellence proEconomical Responsibility to various business customers such as fast-food chains, ▸ www.usgbc.org gram. As in 2017, the 2018 program also contributed Profitability wholesalers, kitchen studios and construction compaCECED (European Committee of Domestic Equipment to improving Franke’s competitiveness by reducing Business integrity nies in over 100 countries. Manufacturers), which represents the household applicosts. Human rights ance industry in Europe. öbu, the Swiss association and think-tank for ecologiKey topics Product Responsibility cally conscious corporate management. The following twelve topics are covered in the succeedReliability and longevity of the products Advance Women with the aim of continuously and ing chapters: Product safety actively increasing the proportion of women in Product innovation 14 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 15 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Environmental Responsibility 16 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to For manufacturing companies, a certain consumption of resources is sustainable development unavoidable. It is therefore crucial to optimize these resources in a way that conserves the environment as much as possible. This includes steps such ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy as reducing emissions, recycling waste materials or increasing the energy SDG 13: Climate action efficiency of our products in order to ensure a good life for future generations. WATER, WASTE WATER Since Franke was established over 100 years ago, ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation­ numerous environmental protection initiatives have been 2018 2017 launched as a result of new legislation, stakeholder interests or for efficiency reasons. The positive effects of Franke’s activities on the environment unfold along Production sites certified in accordance MATERIALS EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION the entire value-added chain. with ISO 14001 31/37 33/40 SDG 15: Life on land To concentrate our resources, we focus on those segments of the value-added chain on which we can exert Franke is committed to continuously reducing the eco­ the most significant influence and where the greatest logical impact of everyday operations, as far as this is RESOURCE-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS impact can be achieved. We focus on product developeconomically feasible and environmentally friendly techSDG 13: Climate action ment and innovation, resource efficiency (focusing on nologies are available. Bruno Triet, Chief Risk & Real raw materials, energy, water and waste), and we invest in Estate Franke Group, is responsible for the majority of environmentally friendly production processes. Over the the measures in particular for risk assessments, which long term, we also intend to reduce our ecological footalso include ecological aspects. A series of measures print in logistics and transport. are in place to reduce the environmental impact of our operations: Environmental management systems at the Franke companies ensure that ecological effects are RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES OF CLIMATE CHANGE identi­fied and controlled. Franke strives for the conClimate change requires the efficient use of energy and tinuous certification of all production companies water. With the need to use these resources in a smarter to ISO 14001 standard. By the end of 2018, 31 of fashion in the future, demand for products that consume 37 production companies were certified to ISO 14001. less energy and/or water will increase. We at Franke have set ourselves the goal that our innovative products In 2018, the production facility in Ras Al Khaimah meet these requirements. Based on the annual risk (United Arab Emirates) was certified to ISO 14001 analysis, we believe that Franke is only moderately exposed standard. to climate change-related risks (such as natural hazards As in the previous year, all Franke companies exat production sites or transport facilities). There are changed best practices to learn from examples that currently no special CO2 regulations, such as emission produced good results (such as the consistent use ceilings, which we have to comply with. However, Franke of waste heat from production facilities, the use is doing everything in its power to continuously reduce CO2 emissions on a voluntary basis, especially at its energyof building management systems or the use of more intensive production sites. In addition, Franke strives energy-efficient pumps and motors). to continuously reduce energy consumption in order to The comprehensive review of the environmental data take responsibility for the environ­ment and to counteract collected and the sharpening of the definitions in 2017 rising energy prices. were a solid basis to build on in 2018. For example, when distinguishing between packaging materials, 18 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY 19 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY there is now a clear allocation between renewable and What is more, Franke is committed to charitable purENERGY CONSUMPTION (IN ABSOLUTE TERMS) non-renewable materials. In general, the monitoring of poses around the world. For example, trees have been UNIT 2018 DIFR 2018/2017 2017* environmental data enables continuous progress monplanted since 2013 as part of the partnership between itoring and, thanks to an increased focus on improved Franke Philippines and the College of Forestry and data quality, resulted in steep learning curves in the Natural Resources of the University of the Philippines – Electricity MWh 101,010 –4.3% 105,506 year under review. Los Baños (UPLB). The replanting is now completed. Natural gas m³ 5,694,724 6.3% 5,358,383 Environmental laws and regulations are observed as a The current activities revolve around the observation District heat MWh 16,808 –5.3% 17,745 minimum standard in all of Franke’s activities. of growth progress. Heating oil extra light Liters 405,262 –7.9% 439,893 Subtotal excluding fuel GJ 645,629 –1.3% 654,215 Diesel Liters 1,610,709 2.3% 1,574,066 Gasoline Liters 306,781 2.9% 298,166 ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION Total GJ 712,747 –1.0% 719,754 * Subsequent data corrections for 2017 In 2018, Franke implemented measures to reduce program that was further expanded in 2017. In 2018 the environmental impact of production in the following alone, non-recyclable residual waste was reduced by ENERGY CONSUMPTION (IN RELATION TO NET SALES) areas: as much as 57 percent. More efficient lighting in buildings through energyAs in previous years, the commitment to LEAN UNIT 2018 DIFR 2018/2017 2017* saving lamps (e.g. LED), motion sensors and daylight management in Franke’s production facilities was control. continued in 2018. Electricity MWh/m CHF 48 –6.1% 51 Replacement of air compressors by more efficient Natural gas m3/m CHF 2,690 4.2% 2,582 models with higher efficiency, replacement of heating Systematic energy management was expanded at var­ District heating MWh/m CHF 8 –7.1% 9 distributors or electric boilers by heat pump boilers, ious Franke locations. Software for monitoring energy Heating oil extra light Liters/m CHF 191 –9.7% 212 substitution of crude oil by natural gas consumption online and in real time as well as the Fuels Liters/m CHF 906 0.4% 902 Optimization of waste heat utilization and operation of installation of additional measuring points ensure transTotal GJ/m CHF 337 –2.9% 347 ventilation and cooling systems parent energy flows, thus enabling further optimization * Subsequent data corrections for 2017 Franke Aquarotter in Ludwigsfelde, Germany, has measures, such as the optimization of hydraulic presses already achieved substantial success in waste manor improvements in compressed air. agement as part of a comprehensive environmental CO2 EMISSIONS Energy consumption UNIT 2018 DIFR 2018/2017 2017* Franke mainly uses externally purchased energy. It obtains energy in the form of electricity, natural gas, ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN GIGAJOULE1 district heating and heating oil extra light. Energy Scope 1 (from fuels and combustibles) Metric tons (t) 17,395 4.2% 16,698 consumption for 2018 and changes compared to the Scope 2 (from electricity and district heating) Metric tons (t) 39,293 –11.6% 44,436 800,000 pre­vious year are shown in the Energy consumption 712,747 Absolute CO₂ emissions Metric tons (t) 56,688 –7.3% 61,134 (in absolute terms) table (see page 21). 719,754 700,000 Relative CO₂ emissions (Scope 1 and 2) t/million CHF 27 –9.1% 29 The 7.9 percent reduction in heating oil consumption is * Subsequent data corrections for 2017 600,000 mainly attributable to three locations. For example, the increased use of the CO2-neutral wood chip plant at the 500,000 Unterkulm, Switzerland, site of Franke Water Systems AG 363,635 saved 12,000 liters of heating oil compared to the preincreased or reduced demand for operating vehicles or, which includes Group sales, also showed only a slight 400,000 379,822 vious year. Furthermore, fluctuations are generally to be in the case of diesel consumption, to the irregular use of downward change on the prior year. expected for heating oil, as storage is usually organized fuel for generators in the event of faults. 300,000 in large tanks, which are topped up as required and in line Greenhouse gas emissions 206,898 with market price developments. Natural gas consumption Fluctuations in electricity consumption in 2018 are In absolute terms, greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 194,678 200,000 in 2018 was 6.3 percent up on the prior year. This is mainly largely due to changes in production volumes, whereas and Scope 2) decreased by 7.3 percent. This decrease due to the new production facility in Strečno, Slovakia, district heating was generally affected by weather concan be explained by the reduction in emissions from 60,510 57,486 100,000 63,882 which was built in 2017 and 2018 and started production ditions. At the Franke Water Systems site in Unterkulm, the electricity used and alternatively, by the reduction in 14,587 56,178 15,833 9,632 9,361 at the end of June 2018. It should be noted that natural for example, a steady decline in the number of heating electricity consumption. 0 gas is used instead of heating oil for the heating systems. degree days has been observed since 2016 and thus a Total ElectriNatural District Heating oil Diesel Gasoline lower heating output is also required. In relation to net sales (tons of CO2 per million Swiss city gas heat extra light Both diesel and gasoline consumption rose slightly in francs), greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 fell by 9.1 per2018 2017* 2018 versus the prior year. Small increases and deFranke’s total energy consumption fell slightly compared cent compared with 2017. In 2018, electricity consumpcreases can be observed across Franke, which can be to the prior year. Expressed in gigajoules, electricity tion (around 65 percent of total greenhouse gas emis* Subsequent data corrections for 2017 attributed to reasons such as more efficient vehicles, is the biggest factor here. Relative energy consumption, sions) was by far the most important source of CO2. 20 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and energy SDG reference SDG reference consumption By using renewable energy to promote clean energy With regard to SDG 6 Clean water and sanitation, Franke Franke strives for a more sustainable use of water To reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we pursue two sources, Franke contributes to SDG 7 Affordable and can reduce the water consumption of users through resources throughout the entire water cycle. Although goals: clean energy and SDG 13 Climate action. Admittedly, its resource-efficient product range in the kitchen and it is not yet possible, at least for the time being, to set 1. Implement energy-saving measures and increase the achievement of this goal is associated with the risk bathroom areas. This enables Franke to stand out a quantitative target for water conservation, Franke energy efficiency. of high initial investments. This, however, gives Franke from the competition, meet customer needs at an early nevertheless aims to reduce water consumption 2. Switch to renewable or low carbon energy sources: the opportunity to achieve an independent, afford­stage and contribute to the sustainable management and make a contribution to a more sustainable water When constructing new buildings or renovating existing able and sustainable energy supply in the long term. of water and sanitation. In addition, Franke ensures the management throughout the water cycle. ones, Franke always tries, depending on availability, The use of renewable energy also makes an important efficient use of water in production. to promote the use of renewable energies, heat pumps, contribution to climate protection. Franke also has recovered heat from production processes and disthe opportunity to become more resilient to volatile trict heating. energy prices. In order to further reduce energy consumption at the Franke pursues the goal of further promoting the switch MATERIALS EFFICIENCY IN PRODUCTION most energy-intensive locations, targets and measures to renewable energies. Franke has been able to reduce were defined, such as switching from lighting sources to CO2 emissions for the third year in a row. Since 2015, LEDs or improvements in compressed air. For example, they have fallen by almost one third. The promotion of Franke uses a large number of materials of different ous year is particularly notable. It can be explained by Franke Hellas S.A. has also been using LED lamps since renewable energies made this reduction possible to a quantity and quality. The main materials we use in our the increase in the production of colored sinks in 2018. 2018. significant degree. production are metals (predominantly stainless steel) In addition, a reduced use of the material glass can be and plastics as well as semi-finished and finished prod­observed. This is mainly due to the shift of certain proucts. When processing stainless steel for sinks, kitchen duction steps within the value-added chains. covers and equipment, cutting and punching the material results in a large amount of recyclable waste. This is It should also be noted that as of 2018 we will only be WATER, WASTE WATER returned to the manufacturer and reused for the producreporting on centrally purchased raw materials. The ma­tion process of the raw material. This process is reflected terials that have been recorded decentrally so far (matein the reported figures. As a result, Franke has a large rials from renewable sources and unclassified/ diverse Water consumption Water sources significantly affected by amount of scrap and a high proportion of recycled matematerials) are no longer listed. As part of the measures Franke mainly uses drinking water from the public mains the removal of water rials due to its resources and production. to improve data quality, it was found that the decensystem and well water. Closed water cycles have been The water consumption of our production sites does tralized recording had some shortcomings and that achieved at most of the world’s production sites. Water not represent a significant burden for water sources as After Franke reported comparative values for material the allocation of materials was not uniform throughout consumption remained virtually unchanged in 2018 defined in the GRI guidelines. consumption for the first time last year (2017), we estab­ Franke. Franke is currently examining how this data compared to 2017. In relation to net sales (m3 per million lished an improved process for collecting this data in this can be collected in the future. francs), this resulted in a reduction of 2.2 percent comTotal waste water discharge year’s report (2018). The data was collected and care­ pared to the prior year. However, it should be stressed In 2018, 635,250 m3 or 3.5 percent more wastewater fully checked in close cooperation with the Central Pur­Share of recycled raw materials in total that the collection of reliable data on water consumption than in 2017 was discharged into the sewer system. The chasing department of Franke. In addition to improving raw material input due to a lack of water meters is a challenge. This was relative volume of wastewater in 2018 was 300 m3 per data quality, this also resulted in closer cooperation Stainless steel, which is the main component of many particularly noticeable in the prior year, when reporting million Swiss francs, 1.5 percent up on 2017. A small between the Central Purchasing department and sustain­ of our products, is estimated to be 87 percent recycled was partially revised. Clear improvements can be seen amount of waste water was disposed of by external speability reporting. materials. This estimate comes from our largest steel here for 2018. We have therefore come one step closer cialist companies. In 2018, there were no unplanned supplier. We have now also collected estimates for the to our goal of continuously improving data quality. At waste water discharges at Franke. The increase in the purchased quantities of quartz and proportion of recovered constituents in other material. Group level, water data is primarily dependent on the SMC (sheet molded compound) compared to the previFor both brass (4%) and carbon steel and galvanized number of production sites and at company level on The volume of water forwarded to a treatment plant the production intensity. For this reason, we do not set and not directly discharged into surface water or quantitative targets for water consumption. groundwater increased by 2.3 percent year on year. MATERIALS BY WEIGHT MATERIALS IN METRIC TONS (T) 2018 DIFR 2018/2017 2017 WATER AND WASTE WATER Stainless steel 32,701 –4.8% 34,345 UNIT 2018 DIFR 2018/2017 2017* Carbon and galvanized steel 14,367 –1.1% 14,531 MMA (methyl methacrylate), mostly used for acrylic 2,236 9.3% 2,045 Water consumption m3 641,064 –0.2% 642,482 Quartz 7,346 19.1% 6,169 Relative water consumption m3/m CHF 303 –2.2% 310 SMC (sheet molded compound), mostly used for fiber-reinforced plastics 2,076 19.0% 1,744 Waste water channeled into treatment plants m3 264,031 2.3% 258,183 Plastic 2,250 –6.3% 2,400 Total waste water m3 635,250 3.5% 613,765 Brass 2,450 –8.1% 2,665 Relative waste water m3/m CHF 300 1.5% 296 Glass 1,450 –13.4% 1,675 * Subsequent data corrections for 2017 Total weight of non-renewable materials 64,876 –1.1% 65,574 22 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY steel (10%), the proportion of recovered constituents that is disposed of in landfills or incinerators. 1,413 tons PACKAGING MATERIAL ACCORDING TO WEIGHT is rather low in each case. MMA, quartz, SMC, plastic of hazardous waste was reused or recycled in 2017. In MATERIALS IN METRIC TONS (T) 2018 DIFR 2018/2017 2017* and brass do not contain any recovered constituents. 2018, this figure rose by 5 percent to 1,487 tons. By As a result, in the 2018 reporting year, the proportion of contrast, hazardous waste that goes to landfill or is incinrecovered constituents from all non-renewable materials erated increased by 12.2 percent from 699 metric tons Renewable packaging material 15,583 11.3% 13,998 was 46 percent. Compared to the prior year, this is a in 2017 to 784 metric tons in 2018. Almost 50 percent Non-renewable packaging material 7,433 18.9% 6,254 significantly improved estimate, which is mainly due to of this increase can be explained by the fact that this KPI Non-classified packaging material 0 –100.0% 895 the support of the Central Purchasing department. was not yet recorded by one of our locations in 2017. Total weight of packaging material 23,016 8.8% 21,147 * Subsequent data corrections for 2017 The cardboard we use for our packaging consists mainly Now (since 2018), we can make the same breakdown of recycled constituents (estimated at 90% of the total also for non-hazardous waste. Due to the large quantities cardboard used). The pallets, which also make up a large of scrap metal, the proportion of reused and recycled The classification of packaging materials is still rela­ and contributes to a reduction in environmental impart of the renewable packaging materials, consist of the non-hazardous waste is particularly high (85 percent). tively new for Franke companies. The collection of pacts through recycling. naturally renewable raw material of wood. reliable data is a challenge for individual enterprises Weight of the packaging material and is therefore mainly based on estimations. In the Improvements could not be achieved in all categories Total weight of waste The packaging materials are recorded decentrally. A future, we expect this data to be recorded more pre­ in 2018. Despite the increase in the amount of packIn 2018, 23,396 tons of non-hazardous waste including distinction is made between renewable and non-renewcisely at a company level and consequently more meanaging materials, however, some pleasing observations scrap metal and 2,271 tons of hazardous waste was able materials. Since 2018, the category of unclassified ingful at Group level. Based on this, development were made. At our site in Ukraine, for example, we regenerated. Thus, non-hazardous waste (–0.9%) has depackaging materials no longer exists. Accordingly, all opportunities are then to be identified and clear meaduced the amount of non-renewable packaging matericreased and hazardous waste (+7.6%) increased comFranke companies now distinguish between renewable sures defined. als by 75 percent by increasing the reuse of tensioning pared to 2017. Total waste in relation to net sales (tons and non-renewable packaging materials. The total straps for transport. Another example is the complete of waste per million Swiss francs) was 2.2 percent lower weight of packaging materials increased by 8.8 percent SDG reference replacement of bubble wrap in Poland without com­pro­ in 2018 than in 2017. on the prior year. The weight of renewable packaging The efficient use of resources and materials leads to mising the protection of products by packaging. has increased by 11.3 percent since 2017. We also a lower environmental impact, in particular with Since 2017, we have distinguished between hazardous recorded an 18.9 percent increase in non-renewable regard to SDG 15 Life on land. Franke has managed to Nevertheless, we will continue to intensify our efforts waste that is reused or recycled and hazardous waste packaging. generate less waste through its resource-efficient to contribute to a lower consumption of resources and production and the associated process optimizations a more sustainable approach to the environment. WASTE1 UNIT 2018 DIFR 2018/2017 20172 RESOURCE-EFFICIENT PRODUCTS Total non-hazardous waste Metric tons (t) 23,396 –0.9% 23,616 Hazardous waste to be reused or recycled Metric tons (t) 1,487 5.3% 1,413 Hazardous waste disposed of in landfills or The company’s responsibility begins with product devel­ high-class manufacturing techniques, the CoolFix setting incinerators Metric tons (t) 784 12.2% 699 opment. The aim is to develop energy-efficient and remakes hot water more economical to use. This special source-saving products that are safe for end consumers. design of the tap makes it much less likely that consumHazardous waste total Metric tons (t) 2,271 7.6% 2,111 The greatest environmental contribution of our products ers use hot water unless it is absolutely necessary. Total waste Metric tons (t) 25,667 –0.2% 25,727 lies in their economical use of energy and (hot) water, In 2018, the Joulia Inline shower channel, which is Relative waste Mt/m CHF 12 –2.2% 12 which indirectly saves energy and water. At the same already well-known in Switzerland, was also sold in 1 The data is partly from internal data sources and partly from external disposal companies. time, our customers can save costs when using the prodFranke Water Systems products in Germany. With this 2 Subsequent data corrections for 2017 ucts. That is why we are constantly working on making innovation, in which the fresh water is heated by the our products more resource-efficient, as the following run-off water, energy savings of up to 40 percent can examples show: be achieved. WASTE ACCORDING TO HAZARDOUSNESS The Mythos 2gether induction hob with an integrated extractor hood was presented at the EuroCucina 2018 Whereas only a few of our products need to contain IN METRIC TONS (T) 2018 international kitchen trade fair. This corresponds specific information on sustainability impacts (e.g. taps, to the highest energy efficiency class A+++ and offers hobs and stoves in the European Union), Franke relies Non-hazardous waste to be reused or recycled 19,804 numerous high-tech solutions such as automatic pan on various labels to facilitate informed purchasing deciNon-hazardous waste disposed of in landfills or incinerators 3,592 detection and extractor activation. sions by our customers. Non-hazardous waste total 23,396 Three different hoods from Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems were brought to market this year. They contain The list of such labels contains: Hazardous waste to be reused or recycled 1,487 the unique SIL & STILL technology, which aims to optiEU energy label (energy efficiency for extractor hoods Hazardous waste disposed of in landfills or incinerators 784 mize air flow and minimize noise. The energy efficiency and ovens) Hazardous waste total 2,271 class A++ is also achieved. PEFC Chain of Custody (indication of origin wood) At Franke Water Systems, the KWC Monta tap line was a Well, WRAS and Energie Schweiz (water efficiency of Total waste 25,667 great success. In addition to perfect ergonomics and taps and shower heads) 24 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Franke aims to actively adapt to higher customer expecis indispensable. Despite some improvements in 2018, tations, regulatory changes, newly introduced product labels or building standards. At the same time, we will there is still room for improvement in the future. REDUCTION IN WASTE VOLUME further reduce environmental risks and the impact of We were also able to make our products more resourceour products and services, such as material, energy and efficient thanks to the large number of activities we carwater consumption and waste generation. ried out. However, we are aware that there is still a lot of development potential in this area. For this reason, we Effect of our measures in the area of ecology are also busy collecting more precise data on product Through the increased use of CO2-neutral energy impacts in order to systematically increase the resource (e.g. wood chip heating), which goes hand in hand with efficiency of our products across the entire Group in a reduced use of heating oil, we were able to reduce the future. greenhouse gas emissions. This has improved Franke’s CO2 footprint. However, such optimization measures SDG reference Continuously improving energy efficiency and reducing environmental cannot explain the overall CO2 reduction. The substitu­ In response to our global presence and our activities tion of high-emission production facilities for new, lowin energy-intensive competitive fields, we are making emissions are some of the primary targets at Franke. At the Franke emission production facilities (e.g. in Strečno, Slovakia) a significant contribution to SDG 13 Climate action Aquarotter site in Ludwigsfelde, Germany, considerable success has also contributes to improving the CO2 footprint. Greenthrough consumption-efficient products and needshouse gas emissions (tons of CO2) fell by a total of specific solutions. Our resource-efficient products and already been achieved. 7.3 percent and relative greenhouse gas emissions (tons systems not only save our customers money, but also of CO2/CHF million of sales) by 9.1 percent compared reduce their ecological footprint. with 2017. We have set ourselves the goal of continuously deFor Franke Aquarotter (Franke Water Systems), transparWe aim to continuously reduce our environmental impact, veloping the resource efficiency of our products and ency has always been part of a trustworthy environmental especially in terms of energy consumption, but also in providing our customers with specific information and energy policy. “We have all our activities evaluated terms of material efficiency in production. Our energy on the sustainability effects of our products. In 2018, at regular intervals by independent bodies and maintain saving measures and energy efficiency should be inwe brought consumption-efficient products to market a constant dialog with the public about sustainable creased and the substitution of high-CO2 energy sources and as the KWC Monta tap shows reduced water business practices and what is needed to achieve them,” for low-CO2 energy sources should be further promoted. consumption and heating costs. We thereby mobilize says Managing Director Oliver Gessert. Franke Aquarotter The recorded water data still shows potential for imour consumers’ participation for the fight against has been awarded various management certificates provement. In order to better assess and consequently climate change and give them impulses to act on their in the fields of energy, environment, quality and health & reduce water consumption, an increase in data quality awareness. safety since 2003 and is constantly driving the development of the corresponding management systems. The proactive efforts are reflected in an environmental program that Franke Aquarotter’s management further expanded at the beginning of 2017. It sets clear goals and can be measured by their achievement. Well-known successes have already been achieved in waste separation. After reducing non-recyclable residual waste by more than 12 percent in the first year, the consistent separation in 2018 led to a further reduction by 57 perused on site at the test center to test new products before cent. In addition, reusable containers were introduced they are launched on the market. Furthermore, the change throughout the entire company. from water test benches to compressed air test benches was promoted; this reduces water consumption. On the The hazardous substances used in the Ludwigsfelde prodother hand, testing with compressed air eliminates the uction process were also reduced by 10.8 percent in the need for time-consuming drying and finishing processes. year under review. “The consistent testing of substitutes and the inclusion of environmental aspects in the develop­ The company’s environmental program includes a total ment process have contributed to this further improveof 38 targets with different deadlines. “The complete ment,” says Oliver Gessert. The site also achieved a reducconversion to compressed air test benches is one of the tion in its annual electricity consumption of almost 3 percentral measures for the near future,” announces the cent in 2018, while gas consumption (+ 4%) rose slightly. managing director. The use of modern LED light sources is also intended to achieve a sustainable reduction in In addition to the considerable reduction of waste and electricity consumption. Franke Aquarotter also expects hazardous substances, Franke Aquarotter also installed an considerable savings from the prompt replacement of the environmentally friendly infiltration system for test water older gas burners (building heating and hot water generain Ludwigsfelde in the year under review. This water is tion) during operation. Oliver Gessert: “We are on track.” 26 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY social Responsibility 28 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to With around 9,400 employees at 68 branches on five continents, sustainable development our workforce plays a key role in Franke’s sustainability efforts. Healthy, committed and well-trained employees and managers LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT SDG 4: Quality education are the key to our success. SDG 5: Gender equality OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Our employees are our most valuable asset. As an emHEADCOUNT BY REGION 2018 SDG 3: Good health and well-being ployer, we bear a social responsibility for them and their IN % families. We therefore support them in staying healthy and continuously developing their skills. Not only do we Europe 60.6 avoid accidents in the workplace, but we also contribute Americas 16.4 to the continuous improvement of working conditions Asia/Oceania 17.1 through regular employee surveys, thereby increasing Africa/Middle East 5.8 the commitment of our employees. However, we also understand social responsibility to mean our obligation to respect internationally applicable human rights at HEADCOUNT BY DIVISION 2018 our sites and in our supply chain. By signing the Global IN % Compact 2011, we committed to “supporting and res­ pecting the protection of internationally proclaimed Franke Kitchen Systems 33 human rights” (Principle 1) and to “making sure that they Faber Hoods & Cooking Systems 23 are not complicit in human rights abuses” (Principle 2). Franke Foodservice Systems 19 Franke Water Systems 13 Responsibility for Human Resources & Organization at Franke Coffee Systems 6 Franke lies with the Chief Human Resources Officer, Gruppenfunktionen 6 who reports directly to the CEO of Franke and is a member of the Management Board. In addition, the Human Re­sources (HR) Committee of the Board of Directors and run through all our corporate communications. We monitors personnel-related activities. expect our managers, as multipliers, to create an environment in which our employees are willing to give their We conduct our business in accordance with high ethical best and contribute to the development of new ideas. and moral standards. Our Code of Conduct (see chapter The corporate value “Be accountable” has a direct link Economy, p. 39) and internal policies define our business to sustainability and thus to the activities described in principles and are regarded as the authoritative source this report. for regulations on various topics in the area of occupational safety. The focus is on the prevention of discrimiTotal workforce nation and harassment, the promotion of equal opportu­ In 2018, Franke employed an average of 9,362 full-time nities and diversity, collegiality among employees and equivalents (FTEs) worldwide, 3.2 percent more than compliance with basic employment standards. in 2017. This increase is mainly due to the acquisitions of Chain Link Services, LLC and Facility Solutions, Inc The Franke values of “Enable people”, “Foster teamwork”, in 2018. “Act entrepreneurial”, “Deliver solutions” and “Be accountable” apply equally to all employees as guidelines 30 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY 31 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Female employees Management Level 2: All employees directly reporting DIVERSITY: FEMALE EMPLOYEES COMPARED TO THE PRIOR YEAR The percentage of female employees (26%) remained to Management Level 1. NUMBER OF WOMEN 2018 % OF 2018 TOTAL 2017 % OF 2017 TOTAL1 unchanged in 2018 compared to the prior year. We have now aligned our diversity reporting with the schilling­ Barbara Borra (CEO Franke Kitchen Systems) is the new report. The schillingreport collects data on the composifemale member of the Management Board. At Manage­ Management Board 1 9% 0 0% tion of the management boards and supervisory boards ment Level 1, there was a minimal increase in the Management Level 1 (reporting 12 12% 10 10% of Switzerland’s 100 largest employers, among others number of female employees in 2018 compared to the directly to Management Board) with a special focus on the developments in the field of previous year. In contrast, there was a slight decline in Management Level 2 (reporting gender diversity. As a result of this alignment, the report the number of female employees at Management Level 2. directly to Management Level 1) 74 21% 88 23% now distinguishes between the following levels (see As in the previous year, the proportion was 26 percent Total employees2 2,068 26% 2,004 26% Table): across all employees. 1 Subsequent data correction in 2017 Management Board: All members of the Management 2 The shares are based on the list of employees. In the event of missing gender data, we extrapolated this information based on existing gender data. Board are included at this level. Franke promotes gender equality, diversity and equal Management Level 1: All employees reporting directly opportunities and prohibits discrimination based on, to a member of the Management Board. for example, gender, age, skin color, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, disability or other characteristics of ments and aim to continuously improve our working a person (see Franke Code of Conduct, p. 13). Within conditions, which are ultimately responsible for the comthe framework of the internal talent promotion program mitment of our employees. WORKFORCE (One Franke Talent Program), the proportion of female talent in 2018 was 41.4 percent. When executive posi­ Senior Leadership and HR at Group/division level as IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2018 2017 % OF TOTAL 2018 DIFFERENCE tions are filled with the support of external partners well as managers at all levels are responsible for the (executive search), Franke demands a focus on diversity continuous optimization of working conditions within the Europe 5,729 5,410 61% 5.9% when identifying potential candidates. framework of the engagement process. For this reason, Thereof Switzerland 1,057 1,022 11% 3.4% improvement measures were set out for employee en­Americas 1,522 1,527 16% –0.3% Employee Engagement Survey gagement at all levels of the company. In 2017, 89 perAsia/Oceania 1,574 1,543 17% 2.0% A new Franke-wide employee engagement survey was cent of all teams drew up their action plan and worked Africa/Middle East 537 591 6% –9.1% conducted in 2016, as the commitment of our employees continuously on implementing the measures until the Total 9,362 9,071 100% 3.2% is central to our success. In 2017, on the basis of the second survey in October 2018. The next step will be to results of the 2016 survey, we defined three drivers for focus on creating new plans based on the results of 2018. Full-time employees 8,368 8,129 89% 2.9% even more commitment at Group, country and team Part-time employees 801 737 9% 8.7% level: Leadership, Learning and Development as well as Franke Academy Apprentices 193 205 2% –5.9% Recognition. Within these drivers, measures were defined Based on the results of the first employee engagement Total 9,362 9,071 100% 3.2% such as improving communication, promo­ting learning survey, the Franke Academy was further expanded in opportunities, training managers and introducing a 2016. It includes all training and further education mea­ recognition program. sures of Franke. Central to this is our company-wide FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES BY REGION strategy with the core objectives of outstanding proIn 2018, the second employee engagement survey was duction, excellent marketing and sales and the promoIN AVERAGE FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2018 2017 DIFR 2018/2017 conducted with a very high participation rate of 89 tion of our innovative strength. Specifically, we conduct percent. In this survey, Franke achieved an overall rating programs and training courses in the areas of executive Europe 5,043 4,778 5.5% of 56 percent, meaning that the company improved by development, technical sales and product competencies Thereof Switzerland 937 916 2.3% 4 percentage points compared to the 2016 survey. This as well as individual work task-related competencies Americas 1,423 1,391 2.3% result places us in the middle by external comparison (e.g. language courses or software training). The Franke Asia/Oceania 1,402 1,402 0.0% (with 50 percent of all companies surveyed). NevertheAcademy thus supports all employees and managers in Africa/Middle East 500 558 –10.4% less, we achieved excellent results in some sub-topics of acquiring the necessary tools and relevant knowledge. Total 8,368 8,129 2.9% the survey. For example, 81 percent are willing to work Franke employees receive long-term support in achievhard to exceed customer expectations. Compared to the ing their personal and professional goals through regular 2016 results, an improvement was achieved in all focus feedback, learning programs and development opportuPART-TIME EMPLOYEES BY REGION areas. However, we are not satisfied with these achievenities. IN AVERAGE FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2018 2017 DIFR 2018/2017 Europe 549 488 12.5% Thereof Switzerland 42 28 50.0% Americas 74 113 –34.5% Asia/Oceania 141 103 36.9% Africa/Middle East 37 33 12.1% Total 801 737 8.7% 32 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY tive employer. Investments in our people also support and Management Level 1 increased in 2018. Franke LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT productivity and innovation potential. Franke employs continues to promote women in management positions more than 9,000 people worldwide and has many and provide equal opportunities. In 2018, Franke also opportunities to promote women at different managerolled out global leadership development programs for The following chapter deals with the essential topic of Competency promotion programs ment levels. Compared to the prior year, the propormanagers at all levels of the hierarchy. executive development. To this end, we will first explain The regularly held One Franke Talent Program (OFTP) is tion of female employees at Management Board Level our supporting HR processes and provide insights into designed to give talented and ambitious employees the the development programs. opportunity to develop their skills in a real project and to promote exchange among themselves and with senior HR processes for sustainable performance management. The second global OFTP was successfully The processes of performance assessment and develop­ completed in 2018. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ment planning are actively supported by a central system. Measures and results can be systematically recorded Since 2018, we have also been offering leadership as part of the personal goals achievement (Management development programs worldwide that help managers Franke attaches great importance to occupational annually by the Marie Curie charity, as in the prior year. Incentive Plan, MIP or SIP, Sales Incentive Plan) or the to execute their role even better and thus increase health and safety. Franke’s Management Board aims Over GBP 23,000 has already been raised through this competency appraisal. In 2018, 1,181 MIPs and 2,111 their contribution to success. Together with an external to ensure that all production companies roll out and commitment. Franke Philippines has also been involved competence appraisals were recorded across all levels partner and our own resources, these programs are imcertify a management system for occupational health in quarterly blood donation campaigns since 2012. In of the hierarchy. plemented globally. Franke’s goal is to offer executives and safety (OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001) . By the end 2018, around 80 percent of the workforce was able to development opportunities and to promote them. By of 2018, 28 of 37 production companies were certified participate in the project. The competency appraisal process introduced in 2015 the end of 2018, 47 participants had already completed to OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001. The production facility in is closely linked to the Franke values and promotes open the new development programs. Ras Al Khaimah (United Arab Emirates) has been newly Accidents, injuries, deaths communication. The process has been extended to ever certified to OHSAS 45001 standard. In addition, Franke We minimize occupational health and safety risks more employees in recent years. Development goals are Identifying and developing our internal talent and potenKaffeemaschinen AG in Aarburg, Switzerland, was the through safety training and occupational health and defined and specified together and their implementation tial successors to key positions allows us to provide our first production facility to switch from OHSAS 18001 to safety certification. With measures such as the instal is monitored. In the MIP, both financial and personal employees with career opportunities and increase the ISO 45001. lation of safety sensors on production machines, Franke goals are jointly defined, whose achievement defines the rate of internal promotions. For the Global Leadership aims to achieve an overall reduction in the number of amount of the bonus payment. The majority of this team (GLT), we achieved a rate of 71 percent in 2018. Internal risk audits are carried out as part of measures injuries in the coming years and to permanently reduce model is applied to employees with management, project Compared to the prior year (67%), Franke recorded an to protect the health, safety and well-being of employthe number of injuries. An impressive example of this or specialist functions (see also table below). increase, achieved the target of an internal promotion ees. In 2018, cooperation between the internal audit is our site in the United Arab Emirates, which has been rate of 70% and was thus able to make a significant conteam and sustainability reporting was further intensified. accident-free for over 1,000 days. In addition, an HR process for Talent Management and tribution to a development-driven culture. Among other things, a standardized process has been Succession Planning (TMSP) was initiated in 2016 and set up to report sustainability risks so that they can be The Franke-wide lost day rate (LDR = lost days per 100 rolled out further in 2017. This involves systematically SDG reference taken into account in the audit if necessary. employees) was 27 in 2018, compared with 39 in 2017. assessing employees, identifying talents and discussing With regard to SDG 4 Quality education and SDG 5 This year, only incidents that led to lost days are now potential development opportunities such as participaGender equality, Franke has made progress in the Training in the workplace, refresher courses for longtaken into account in the injury figures. The reason for tion in the talent program (more information in the next education of its employees through its education and term employees and awareness training for new emthis is a harmonization of the definitions between the chapter). In 2018, 793 employees were assessed within training programs. This gives Franke the opportunity ployees as well as an open communication culture form different functions. One day lost is defined as a planned the TMSP framework. to retain and develop talented employees as an attracthe basis for safe working. Health and safety at work is working day that cannot be performed due to an accialso ensured by adequate protective equipment in the dent on the prior day. When comparing the lost days workplace. between 2018 and 2017, a decline of 30 percent can be TARGET AGREEMENTS (EMPLOYEES WITH MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN) observed. The majority of this difference is due to three These measures are leading to visible success. For accidents that led to numerous lost days in 2017. As IN % OF TOTAL WORKFORCE FEMALE MALE TOTAL example, we offer our employees at our head office in in the previous year, no fatal accidents were recorded Aarburg the opportunity to contact the company’s social in 2018. Franke Management Board 0.01 0.13 0.14 services department in the event of social or profes­ Management Level 1 (reporting directly to sional issues. In addition, the Fit4Franke campaign offers The Franke-wide absence rate for 2018 could not be fully Management Board) 0.15 1.08 1.23 various possibilities to stay physically and mentally fit. recorded due to a change in reporting. For this reason, Management Level 2 (reporting directly to Franke in Smyrna, USA, also promotes the mental, social the absence rate for 2018 of 3.0 percent is an estimate Management Level 1) 0.93 3.50 4.43 and physical well-being of its employees through its based on the data available that was collected by the Other employees with MIP* 2.94 7.08 10.02 Wellness Committee. The program offers activities such end of August 2018. A new system is currently being set Total employees with target agreement 4.03 11.78 15.81 as yoga, CrossFit or fitness challenges and provides up and we will be able to calculate the absence rate em­ployees with information on a healthy diet. again on the basis of complete data as of the 2020 report. Employees without target agreement* 21.84 62.35 84.19 Together with its employees, Franke is also committed About half of the entire workforce is currently covered Total employees 25.87 74.13 100.00 to the society as a whole. For example, in 2018 Franke by collective agreements such as collective labor agree* The shares are based on the list of employees. In the event of missing gender data, we extrapolated this information United Kingdom supported the Blooming Great ments or collective bargaining agreements. In Austria, based on existing gender data. Tea Party, a campaign for people with cancer organized France, Germany, Italy and Switzerland, over 90 percent 34 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 2018 DIFFERENCE 20171 LOCAL INITIATIVES INTERNALLY AND EXTERNALLY 2018/2017 Lost days due to occupational accidents or work-related illnesses 2,324 –31% 3,389 Lost days rate 27 –31% 39 Absence rate2 3,0% 3.1% Number of work-related accidents/illnesses resulting in lost days3 91 2% 89 Fatal accidents 0 0% 0 Production facilities certified according to OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001 28/37 30/40 Help in need, community service and employee recognition: Franke lives 1 Subsequent data correction in 2017 social sustainability and demonstrates this at locations worldwide, as shown 2 Absence rate extrapolated for 2018 based on data collected until end of August 2018. Further information is given in the Annex (p. 58). 3 Replaces the previous indicator Number of injuries by three examples from Italy, the UK and India. of employees are bound by a collective employment accidents, reduce health risks and promote the wellagreement or collective bargaining agreements. There are being of employees. It can also increase employee no collective agreements for employees in the US and productivity and reduce healthcare costs. At Franke, solidarity and team spirit are directed both China, which represent 19 percent of the total workforce. externally and internally. The recent success of Franke Franke aims to introduce and certify (OHSAS 18001 Faber India Private Limited with several hundred employSDG reference and ISO 45001) a management system for occupational ees is proof of the latter: Franke’s Indian subsidiary was Franke always aims to make the working conditions of health and safety at all production companies. By the awarded the Great Place to Work seal of approval in the its employees as comfortable and safe as possible end of 2018, 28 of 37 production companies were medium-sized companies category in 2018. The Great in accordance with SDG 3 Good health and well-being. certified to OHSAS 18001 or ISO 45001. As in previous Place to Work Institute uses a sophisticated selection Safety and awareness-raising measures can prevent years, Franke also avoided any fatal accidents in 2018. process to choose the best employers in more than 50 countries in various company categories. Countless companies are examined using detailed surveys among their employees in the five categories of “credibility”, “respect”, “fairness”, “team spirit”, and “pride”. Franke Faber India is officially authorized the title “Great Place to Work” from October 2018 to September 2019. The following two examples from Europe show that Franke also does its utmost to promote social issues in the regions where it operates. One great initiative is the “Risorgimarche,” a solidarity festival in the Marche region of Italy which combines music, art, food and “In a ‘You said, We did’ session, our employees voiced wine, featuring celebrated Italian artists, and unites all the wish to engage in a charitable cause within the framecommunities affected by the severe earthquakes in work of a team event,” says Louise Holloway, Human 2016. Franke’s Faber division was also directly affected Resources Manager Franke UK. “For that reason, we by the disaster. Both its head office and the plants in started working with Groundwork this year.” The nonFabriano and Sassoferrato are located in this region. It profit organization works together with the local populawas therefore a natural outcome for the company to tion to improve their opportunities and to live in a more become a partner of Risorgimarche and to sponsor the environmentally friendly way. Franke UK supported four organization. The festival aims to give a sense of comprojects in the summer of 2018. In one of Manchester’s munity to the population suffering from the consequences most deprived areas, employees helped create a of the earthquake, to show appreciation for nature and community garden, and in Trafford Ecology Park they to celebrate the beauty of the region. “We not only supworked on a picnic area by the lake and started revegeport the festival to the best of our ability, we live it,” tating roads by removing weeds. “It’s great to help local says Egle Galli, Junior Communication Specialist Faber. communities create safe and beautiful places to live and Once again, many Faber employees and customers play”, says Holloway. “28 Franke employees committed visited the second edition of the 2018 festival and took and did not shy away from any efforts. The team and I an active part in the exciting event. hope that we can also support Groundwork next year.” 36 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SOCIAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY Econ mical Responsibility 38 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to The basis for the long-term survival and successful development sustainable development of a company is its financial stability (strong equity base) and healthy profitability. The Management Board, the Board of Directors and PROFITABILITY SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth the owner of Franke push for results and are driving these key areas forward by setting the right conditions for success. BUSINESS INTEGRITY Franke is part of a global value-added chain. For this factors. Franke’s economic performance, market pres­ S  DG 16: Peace, justice and strong reason, the performance and developments achieved ence and indirect economic impacts are monitored institutions do not only have a direct impact on the company. Our strategically by the Board of Directors and the operating numerous suppliers and customers around the globe, management of Franke the Management Board. Com­ with some of whom we have been cooperating for a very pliance activities are directly monitored by Franke’s HUMAN RIGHTS long time, are also an important part of this network Management Board or the Audit Committee. As part of SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth and thus also depend on its overall success. Figures are its internal risk management, Franke conducts permanot the only important factor; adherence to high ethical nent monitoring in order to identify business-relevant standards in the conduct of our business is central risks at an early stage. and integrity and compliance are therefore key success PROFITABILITY The market orientation and internal strategies and pro­ KEY FIGURES cesses of Franke and its divisions are regularly reviewed IN CHF M 2018 2017 DIFF. and adjusted where necessary. The economic performance, possibly changing framework conditions and market conditions as well as a number of other factors Net sales 2,117.2 2,075.6 2.0% are carefully considered. To maintain profitability, Organic growth 1.0% 2.0% we have implemented a timely review and long-term EBIT 67.2 126.1 –46.7% planning measures. Investments 177.0 144.6 22.4% Employees average 9,362 9,071 3.2% The necessary flexibility within management is gained by monthly meetings to make sure that we are staying on track. In this regular process, monthly results are being and lower profitability in the year under review. It achieved consolidated and reviewed on a divisional level to detect consolidated net sales of CHF 2117.2 million in 2018, indications for a deviation from the annual targets and compared with CHF 2075.6 million in 2017, an increase of allow for the timely implementation of countermeasures. almost 2 percent. Organic growth came in at 1 percent. In the medium to long term, we have an annual internal The operating result (EBIT) fell by 46.7 percent from planning and budgeting process that takes into ac­count CHF 126.1 million to CHF 67.2 million. This decrease was the following three years. Franke recorded sales growth also reflected in a lower EBIT margin of 3.2 percent (prior 40 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY year 6.1%) and is mainly attributable to one-off effects. EBIT adjusted for one-off effects fell by 8.3 percent from The development of new markets and the acquisition of new customers is associated with a variety of challengHUMAN RIGHTS CHF 130.6 million to CHF 119.7 million. The adjusted es, but also always represents an opportunity to operate EBIT margin thus fell to 5.7 percent (prior year 6.3%). profitably in the long term and to strengthen the com­ pany’s market position. Code of Conduct 2018, 78 percent successfully completed it. In 2018, SDG reference The protection of human rights has a high priority at two face-to-face training sessions (compared with five With regard to SDG 8 Decent work and economic In 2018, the adjusted EBIT margin fell to 5.7 percent Franke and is a requirement in the entire value-added in the prior year) on compliance (including human rights) growth, Franke can claim positive effects on employment year on year. Franke employed 9,362 people worldwide, chain to guarantee the license to operate. In its binding for employees were also held in comparison with the and economic growth through its long-term existence. almost 300 more than in 2017 (full-time equivalents). Code of Conduct (see chapter Social Responsibility, prior year. The Code of Conduct is authoritative for comp. 29), Franke commits to respecting and comply­ing with pliance and human rights issues. All Franke employees all applicable laws and regulations and to support interhave access to the code, which is available for download national human rights as well as basic labor regulations on the Franke intranet in 13 languages. The Code of such as the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Conduct was presented to all employees worldwide to BUSINESS INTEGRITY Rights at Work of the International Labor Organization. ensure its global proliferation. Furthermore, the Code implies basic labor law provisions that do not tolerate child labor or forced labor. An Cases of discrimination The globally valid Franke Code of Conduct was revised guages and makes an important contribution to mainadditional Franke supplier code also requires that all The Franke Code of Conduct prohibits discrimination on and rolled out in 2018. The new version came into force taining high compliance standards. suppliers and their respective supply chains comply with the basis of gender, age, skin color, nationality, ethnicity, on January 1, 2019. All employees are obliged to follow labor practices, environmental protection and business religion, disability or other legally protected characteristhe highest ethical standards of professional and per­ Analysis of business units due to corruption risks integrity requirements. In addition, the supplier code tics of a person. However, due to safety regulations, cersonal conduct in their dealings with customers, colIn 2018, 15 audits were carried out by Internal Audit requires that all suppliers and their suppliers refrain from tain work tasks may be restricted to specific persons. leagues, business partners, competitors, regulators and (compared with 17 in the prior year). These are based on forced, bonded, prisoner, military or compulsory labor For example, different reasonable load weights for lifting the com­­munities in which Franke operates. The new a risk-oriented audit approach and include, among other and any form of human trafficking. Compliance with and carrying may apply to men and women. Code of Conduct contains 15 clearly structured ethical things, compliance risks. the supplier code is ensured by forming part of the conprinciples, which are also reflected in the corresponding tracts with our suppliers. In addition, audits are carried Guarantee of freedom of association and the right e-learning program. New topics incorporated in the Anti-corruption policy training out, which also address these aspects to further verify to collective bargaining Code of Conduct include trade restrictions, product In February 2017, the rollout of a total of three e-learnand minimize the risk of human rights violations in our In its Code of Conduct, Franke undertakes to respect safety and quality, and the confidentiality of personal ing modules in relation to the Code of Conduct and two supply chain. the rights of its employees to freedom of association data. Another change relates to the internal reporting policies (bribery and antitrust law), which are mandatory and collective bargaining within the limits of local law. system, which is now explained in the annex rather and must be repeated periodically, began. The first Corporate Compliance and Human Resources are The supplier code also requires that all suppliers and than at the beginning, to ensure a focus on the essential module is aimed at around 5,300 employees and must responsible for raising awareness and the internal moni­ their respective supply chains respect the right of em ­information in the Code of Conduct. Like the previous also be completed by new employees. The other two toring of human rights matters (such as discrimination, ployees to freely associate and negotiate collectively, edition, the new document is valid worldwide, available modules cover bribery and antitrust law and were equal opportunities and diversity, freedom of association without restriction or consequence. in 13 languages, communicated via a Franke-wide noti­ launched in November 2017. As of December 31, 2018, and the right to collective bargaining) at all Franke sites. fication and rolled out locally. 813 employees were trained in bribery, 82 percent The purchasing functions integrate continuous requireSDG reference of whom successfully completed the module. Of these ments that human rights and basic labor standards must Franke contributes to SDG 8 Decent work and economic Compliance or rule-compliant conduct is indispensable 813 employees, 79 percent were trained in antitrust law. be respected in the supply chain. growth through the Code of Conduct and the supplier for sustainable corporate success. Incorrect conduct code, among other things. The protection of human rights leads to reputational damage, fines and lost orders. We All Franke employees worldwide have access to the Through audits, certifications and training, Franke makes and the fight against discrimination along the valueare therefore strengthening our employees’ understandCode of Conduct, which is available in 13 languages. In a significant contribution to the protection of human added chain are prerequisites for Franke’s long-term sucing of compliance with the law, particularly with regard addition, since 2016, we have renewed communication rights at production sites and in the supply chain. This cess. Franke creates jobs with well-designed conditions to corruption, antitrust law, product requirements, thirdvia the SpeakUp@Franke integrity line to raise employee ensures that workers’ rights are respected and that child for employees of all sexes, genders, ages, skin colors, party industrial property rights, data protection and awareness, in particular through periodic articles in the labor is ruled out. nationalities and skill levels, supporting the economic trade restrictions. In 2016, Franke introduced a compliOne Franke employee magazine. development of the countries in which Franke is present. ance management system with the pillars of prevention, Employee training detection and control. In 2017, all employees were SDG reference All employees with an email address were able to com­Franke is committed to driving its strategy and fully trained online for the first time on the subject of compliWith regard to SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong instituplete the online training courses on the Code of Conduct support human rights, ensuring that workers’ rights are ance. Compliance with laws and regulations is additionally tions, Franke is actively committed to avoiding incidents of (including human rights) launched in February 2017. In respected and that child labor can be ruled out. The promoted by Marcel Enz, the Group Compliance Officer. non-compliance through transparency along the value2018, 850 online training sessions on the Code of Concompletion rate of online training regarding the Code He is a member of the Group Legal & Compliance depart­added chain and training. Franke sees compliant behavior duct (including human rights) were held. Of those emof Conduct at the end of 2018 was a considerable ment and is based in Switzerland. The compliance pro­as a necessary prerequisite for sustainable success. ployees who completed the training as of December 31, 65 percent. cesses at the individual sites are carried out by the Internal Audit department. In addition, the SpeakUp@Franke In order to achieve the goal of keeping non-compliance Integrity Line, launched in 2013, can be used confidenincidents low, internal audits were again conducted tially and anonymously by all employees with integrity in 2018 (15 internal audits in 2018). Franke thus makes concerns. Corrective measures are taken in the event a contribution to the promotion of a peaceful and incluof misconduct. The Integrity Line is available in 26 lansive society. 42 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY SUPPORTING SWITZERLAND AS A RESEARCH HUB Thanks to a donation of four million Swiss francs from Franke, the Student Project House at ETH Zurich will be able to considerably expand its range of services over the next few years. 120 events were held by 800 registered students at the Student Project House. ETH Zurich planned to expand the premises for the Student Project House in several stages until 2020 (Center) and 2025 (Hönggerberg) respectively. Thanks to a donation of over four million francs from Franke, officially handed over in December 2018, the final construction measures can now begin much earlier. The contribution initiated by Franke owner, Michael Pieper, is to be used to promote student projects in the focus areas of nutrition and agriculture, innovation for social change and space technology. Michael Pieper: “When I heard about the Student Project House at a meeting with Lino Guzzella and Donald Tillman, the Managing Director of the ETH Foundation, I spontaneously replied that we at Franke would be happy to support such an institution.” He visited the Student Project House and was impressed, but he also saw that there Anyone wanting to study successfully at ETH Zurich is is still a lot to be improved. “I’m pleased to announce increasingly required to be able to organize as a team. that we can now proceed with the further development The significance of project work at the university has inof this great project.” creased considerably in recent years. As a direct result, the Student Project House was created on the initiative The Student Project House is intended to provide an of former ETH President, Lino Guzzella. It is a creative infrastructure where students can simply try out their Think tank and workshop for student project teams that ideas, says ETH Zurich. It is a laboratory where it is also has been in operation as a pilot at the ETH Hönggerberg fine for projects to occasionally fail. After all, failure is site since autumn 2016. part of every learning process, especially in the event of complex tasks. Thanks to the donation from Franke, The new co-working space is particularly suitable for even more students will now have the opportu­nity to interdisciplinary teams from the mechanical and process pursue their creative ideas. The sponsorship is a very engineering sectors to exchange ideas and use common wise investment in the sustainable promotion of Switzerinfrastructures such as 3D printers, laser cutters or land as a location for innovation, research and business. milling cutters for CNC (computerized numerical control) machines. The roll out has been promising. Over the past two years, 30 projects have been developed and 44 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMICAL XXX RESPONSIBILITY 45 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ECONOMICAL RESPONSIBILITY product Responsibility 46 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Essential topics and our contribution to sustainable development Our business is based on the sale of products and services to our customers. As a result, our goal is to continuously improve the quality of our products 24/7 as our customers should get real value added. We thrive on high perPRODUCT RELIABILITY AND LONGEVITY SDG 12: Responsible consumption formance, distinguishing ourselves from competitors by pursuing the highest and production quality possible in our products and services. PRODUCT SAFETY SDG 3: Good health and well-being It is important to us to be perceived as a quality supplier QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS in the market. The arguments for this are given in the 2018 2017 form of the reliability and longevity of our products. These PRODUCT INNOVATION product properties guarantee not only functional value SDG 9: Industry, innovation and added, but also careful handling of finite resources. This Production sites with certified quality infrastructure is fully in line with sustainability. To maintain our leading management systems (ISO 9001) 34/37 37/40 market position in the future, we constantly make ad­ justments to innovations and meticulously ensure that the highest quality and safety standards are maintained site in Strečno (Slovakia) and the production site in in all processes. The latter are the basic prerequisites Ras Al Khaimah (United Arab Emirates) were both sucfor the safe use of our products. The key effects and cessfully completed. consequences of Franke’s high regard for product res­ ponsibility are experienced directly by the customer, Our quality management systems help to ensure comi.e. in the usage phase. Technical requirements for pliance with mandatory technical and other standards. product safety, but also innovation, reliability and longe­ They also result in a continuous improvement process. vity have an indirect effect on the upstream stages. The surveying and ensuring of customer satisfaction are At Franke, product responsibility is located in various part of quality management and follow clearly defined departments: Product Development, Quality, Marketing, procedures. Whereas some companies in the Group Risk Management and Legal. At the end of 2018, conduct customer surveys independently, others rely on 34 of 37 production sites had implemented a certified standardized third-party surveys. Routinely, plans are quality management system according to ISO 9001. The developed to improve performance in the areas that new certifications planned for 2018 for the production perform weakest in the surveys. PRODUCT RELIABILITY AND LONGEVITY We ensure high quality requirements in order to meet cal reliability of our products. Since 2016, there has customer expectations and thereby preserve resources. also been a regular exchange between production and Our products are in high-quality segments. That is why quality managers on a global level in order to standardize we have implemented a wide range of quality assurance processes and learn from each other’s experiences. measures in product development and production. Among Products that do not pass our internal tests are subjectother things, we carry out failure mode and effects ed to a revision process or, in the case of major faults, analyses (FMEA) to avoid faults and increase the techni­ are dismantled in order to recycle the raw materials 48 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PRODUCT XXX RESPONSIBILITY 49 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY wherever possible. The systematic collection of scrap mainly due to changes in the recording and validation the reduction and avoidance of accidents. This comensuring a high standard of health and safety for its rates also enables us to monitor process quality. method. As a result, the companies and markets taken mitment has a positive effect on the health of the end products. In 2018, as in the prior year, Franke Kitchen into account do not exactly correspond to the previous customers within the meaning of SDG 3 Good health Systems had no customer security incidents to report Manufacturing a reliable product involves key elements year’s figures. Thanks to this approach, we can now refer and well-being. High security requirements are an es­ that would have led to sanctions, warnings or product such as durability, functionality and quality; it must operate to a more reliable database in the future. sential building block for Franke’s reputation. recalls. Franke, therefore, promotes a healthy life for with accuracy over a specified duration in order to prove its consumers. successful. Many of our products have been in use for over The key figures provide us with better insights into the Franke relies on certified quality management systems two decades. To enable us to track product performance effective service life of our products. From this, we at its production facilities and pursues the goal of outside the factory gates as well, the “Faulty Products Indiderive appropriate further development measures for cator” was surveyed for the first time in 2017. It records the our products and production processes. number of faulty products. This is measured by the number of customer complaints within the warranty period. SDG reference With regard to SDG 12 Responsible consumption PRODUCT INNOVATION For 2018, we decided to track this KPI at division level and production, Franke has a positive influence on the rather than company level in order to improve data quality. sustainable consumption of its customers through In collaboration with the quality managers of our five efficiency measures and the development of new busiFranke considers innovation one of the most important as the basis. This figure rose by 3.9 percent* compared divisions, we defined a new process to measure both the ness models. By developing high-quality, reliable and, prerequisites for future success and also as an authori­ with 2017. However, the significance of this indicator Franke-wide number of faulty products and the service in particular, durable products, we can also meet the tative lever for sustainability. This will support more should not be overestimated, as the activities of Franke call rate (percentage of faulty products compared to the needs of environmentally conscious customers. environmentally friendly products that are energy-effido not correspond to a uniform picture and some comtotal number of products sold). This approach is most cient and water-saving, among other things. The driving panies make exclusively customer-specific products. effective because the divisional quality managers have Franke has set itself the goal of reducing the energy force behind the innovation activities is the Innovation, This contributes to an increase in the indicator value, the necessary knowledge of the markets and products and water consumption of its end customers through Marketing & Design Board (IMD), which meets four whereas factors such as the limited influence of customer concerned in order to give accurate estimates. Markets smart technologies and products. Furthermore, quality times a year. The IMD controls and decides on innovademand can lead to a reduction. or product groups were disregarded if not enough data assurance enabled Franke to achieve a service call rate tion projects and creates a network of Franke-internal was available. These estimates resulted in a Franke-wide of 2.14 percent. We promote sustainable consumption and external persons for the implementation of these In 2018, progress was observed across all four areas service call rate of 2.14 percent for 2018, a significant through our durable and high-quality products, which projects. Within the framework of the IMD, for example, (Ecology, Social Responsibility, Economy and Product increase compared to the 0.6 percent in 2017. This is inspire our customers. we hold Innovation Days and involve players from other Responsibility). In particular, the further improvement in areas such as universities or startups in order to prodata quality is positive. We will continue to work on this mote a culture of innovation. Our standardized innova­ in the future in order to obtain a meaningful database tion process helps us to quickly transform new ideas and thus a reliable foundation for future-driven decisions. into innovation projects and promote them accordingly. We intend to continue and intensify our efforts to proPRODUCT SAFETY mote sustainability within Franke in 2019. Process or production innovation is also an important cornerstone both for our business success and for SDG reference Almost all our products are either related to the prepara­ impacts for the whole group do not yet exist. During the a sustainable performance. In particular, we promote With regard to SDG 9 Industry, innovation and infration of food or the use of water. They must therefore 2018 reporting period, as in the prior year, our Kitchen increased efficiency to save costs and minimize the constructure, Franke makes a positive contribution to comply with a large number of technical and food safety Systems division recorded no customer incidents relating sumption of resources. Robotisation and LEAN manageinnovation by bringing consumption-efficient products regulations. Franke follows the precautionary principle to safety that would have led to sanctions, warnings or ment are central topics of our innovation activities. to market. By investing in research and innovation, as part of quality management to ensure that health and product recalls. Franke has the opportunity to win new customers and safety requirements are met by all products. Our drive for innovation prospered last year in the form promote the adaptation of environmentally friendly We adhere to the high health and safety standards of of numerous awards won by Franke Kitchen Systems, technologies. What is more, our innovative products promote hygiene our products. In line with the precautionary principle, Franke Water Systems and Franke Coffee Systems. behavior and thus the health of our consumers, for we will examine our new developments and product adThese include honors such as the Red Dot Award, the Franke has set itself the target of continuously supexample by installing contactless fittings. Since the beaptations for effects on health and safety in the future. iF Design Award, the Kitchen Innovation of the Year, porting product innovation. In 2018, Franke generated ginning of 2018, for example, Franke has been producing Franke intends to further strengthen the centralization the Iconic Award and the German Innovation Award. one third of its sales with products launched over the new Planox washing troughs, which set new stanof its quality management. To this end, a new position the past three years. Franke thus contributes to innodards in meeting the highest hygiene standards. These for Franke-wide quality management was created in To assess product innovation, we used the net trading vation in its global markets. are welded hygienically and seamlessly from the inside 2019. This is particularly important to ensure the transfer revenue of products launched over the past three years using the innovative robot laser welding process: dirt of knowledge across the Group and to collect and and bacteria have no chance to stick to the surfaces. evaluate data for controlling in this area in an even more The troughs are made of high-quality and robust chromethodical way. The Head of Quality of Franke Group mium-nickel steel, which is not only corrosion-resistant, is responsible for the coordination of the company-wide but also allow easy hygienic cleaning. quality assurance and improvement activities. As with reliability and longevity, we rely here on certified SDG reference quality management systems in our production facilities. Through the high quality and high safety requirements Complete data on incidents related to health and safety of our products, we make an important contribution to * Estimate based on all Franke companies that have already provided complete innovation data. 50 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 51 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ENERGY CONSUMPTION REDUCED BY ONE THIRD Within the framework of the “Project Phoenix”, Franke Faber S.p.A. in Italy has succeeded in reducing the energy efficiency of its extractor hoods by 30 percent. Customers and the environment alike benefit from the energy savings in the kitchen. 2018, Faber’s developers and engineers managed to achieve an energy efficiency increase of over 30 percent with the help of Phoenix technology. And it even did so without significant additional costs. Phoenix technology now makes it possible to operate cooker hoods in energy efficiency class D and makes them only marginally more expensive. “Thanks to the successful implementation of Project Phoenix, we have succeeded in transforming a production volume of 250,000 extractor hoods per year in line with the new EU regulations,” says Laura Cintioni, Certification & Testing Manager in the Research and Development department of Franke Faber S.p.A. This corresponds to a sales volume of 6.8 million euros and thus more than 4 percent of the total European sales generated by Franke Faber S.p.A. Franke Faber S.p.A. has further strengthened its posi­ Consumers in international markets are placing increasing tion in the fiercely contested competition for kitchen value on ecological criteria such as economy, energy equipment and plans to use the momentum to further efficiency or low emissions in the decision-making pro­improve energy efficiency. “As the next step in Project cess for products and services. In parallel with this trend, Phoenix, we plan to integrate and combine the politicians are also moving forward with new laws to new technology with state-of-the-art motors and drive regulate sustainability. For example, the new EU Regulawheels,” says Laura Cintioni. The aim is to convert tion 66/2014 on energy efficiency has introduced much even more products from our own production to higher stricter criteria for extractor hoods in kitchens. The obenergy efficiency and quieter operation on an ongoing jective is to permanently displace non-energy-efficient basis. And to do so without significant price increases products and companies from the market. for customers. In September 2017, Franke Faber S.p.A., based in Fabriano, Italy, launched its ’’Project Phoenix’’ for the sustainable improvement of the energy efficiency of its extractor hoods in response to the regulation that came into force on February 20, 2019. Within the framework of the one-year project, which was completed in October 52 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 53 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ANNEX 54 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANNEX REPORTING PARAMETERS REPORTING PARAMETERS Reporting period Employees: Management development, occupational This report covers the 2018 financial year January 1, to health and safety, business integrity, human rights GRI CONTENT INDEX December 31, 2018). Information from prior years was Products: Resource efficiency, profitability, reliability included where it seemed necessary to give the reader and durability, product safety, product innovation CONTACT a complete picture of Franke’s sustainability approach and performance in this area. If information does not Other topics considered important for Franke and our originate from 2018, we clearly indicate this. stakeholders include: Customer service, sales excellence, risk management, human resources development Date of the most recent previous report and employee participation, supply chain management In August 2018, Franke published its 2017 sustaina­bility and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which report. The reports from prior years can be found here: are also briefly addressed in this report. ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About Us ▸ Sustainability Reporting boundaries, joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced activities, etc. Reporting cycle This report covers Franke in its entirety. If only a part of Franke publishes a sustainability report every year. the company is meant (as an example or due to the data The next report will be published in August 2020 at situation), we clearly point out that. This report does the latest. not cover outsourced activities. Although Blefa Beverage Systems (formerly named Franke Beverage Systems) Procedure for determining the report content is still legally part of Franke, the company is no longer The GRI standards Option Core were followed in deincluded in the calculation of Franke and has had a new fining the report content and priorities for Franke. Our reporting line to Artemis Group since January 2016. sustainability report is based on a materiality analysis to Since 2017, Franke Industrie AG (production of hot gas identify those aspects that are important to our stakecomponents for industrial gas turbines and aerospace) holders and on which Franke has the greatest impact. also reports directly to Artemis Group. The relevant stakeholders and their most important interests are described on page 15. In addition, the following changes in connection with joint ventures, acquisitions, divestments or mergers in As in previous years, this sustainability report is based on the reporting period occurred: In January 2018, Franke the materiality analysis, which was prepared as a result acquired Facility Solutions Inc, a project management of the newly introduced GRI standards. The previous company for national restaurant and retail chains in the topics were reviewed for their completeness and subseUS. In November 2018, Franke also acquired Chain Link quently assessed in terms of quality by a group of internal Services LLC, a US distributor that focuses as a project experts for their relevance to Franke stakeholders and manager on national key accounts in the system catering for their significant economic, ecological and social industry and retail chains. In addition, the business impacts. In order to take greater account of stakeholder activities of Franke Foodservice Solutions, Inc. (excluding involvement and the sustainability context, Franke plans the Coffee Systems business) were transferred to Franke to validate the key issues and their limitations with regard Foodservice Supply, Inc., now operating under the name to the following sustainability reports. Franke Foodservice Systems Americas, Inc. The sustainability topics listed below form a special focus Data collection methods and bases of data calculation of our 2018 Sustainability Report: At Franke, non-financial data has been measured for Production: Energy efficiency many years. A consolidation of non-financial data acWater and waste water management, materials cording to the GRI indicators at Group level was carried efficiency, resource efficiency out for the first time in 2011. 56 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANNEX XXX 57 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANNEX The financial, personnel and environmental data (energy, With regard to our data sources for the statements on greenhouse gas emissions, water, materials and waste generation) for this report was taken from the COGNOS the workforce made in the report, the following distinction must be made. When we speak of full-time equivGRI CONTENT INDEX system. Data on occupational health and safety was alents, the information is taken from our financial reportcol­lected using a Franke-wide reporting tool. Certain ing system and, if a number of employees is mentioned, personnel data was extracted from the HR tool, which from the employee directory. now covers approximately 90 percent of the workforce. Since 2017, the central purchasing data for materials For the calculation of the proportion of female employhas been shown after being carefully checked with the ees in the Social Responsibility chapter, the status at the collected COGNOS data. Since some materials are still end of the year is taken into account. Since the Group purchased locally, it is not possible to enter reliable data profile (p. 6) always shows the most current status at at the moment. However, we are working on a solution the time of publication, there are minor discrepancies to ensure that these figures will be transparent again in between the Group profile and the chapter on social GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND REMARK the future. This would also allow us to make a clear dis­ responsibility in the data at Management Board level. tinction between renewable and non-renewable materials. GENERAL DISCLOSURE This is mainly data on the purchase quantity of wood It is also important to mention the changed data basis and of semi-finished and finished products. for calculating the absence rate. As the survey of the underlying indicators changed in the reference year 2018, GRI 102: General Organizational profile The environmental data and occupational health and the absence rate for the 2018 period was calculated Disclosures (2016) 102-1 Name of the organization 6 safety data for the 2018 financial year was reported by based on the data collected up to August 2018. 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 6–7 all production, service and sales companies. The data 102-3 Location of headquarters 7 on water and waste water was collected on the basis of Effects of any restatements of information 102-4 Location of operations 7 municipal water supply bills or other utility bills. provided in earlier reports 102-5 Ownership and legal form 15 In the context of a more comprehensive audit, subse102-6 Markets served 6–7 The conversion factors for energy consumption come quent data corrections were also made for 2017. 102-7 Scale of the organization 6 – 7, 15 from the fact sheet: CO2 emission factors of the Swiss The correction in heating oil of 100,000 liters, which is 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 31 – 36 1 greenhouse gas inventory from 2016 (Federal Office for almost exclusively attributable to a single location that 102-9 Supply chain 11 the Environment). Direct greenhouse gas emissions from had not yet recorded this figure in 2017, should be 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 57 – 58 fossil fuels (heating oil, natural gas, diesel and petrol; mentioned in particular. As a result, the 2017 key figures 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 14 Scope 1 of the GHG Protocol) are also based on the fact of this report differ from those of the prior year. 102-12 External initiatives 14 sheet of the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment 102-13 Membership of associations 14 (2016). The individual greenhouse gases emitted at Franke In last year’s report, the balance sheet total for the 2017 sites are CO2, CH4 and N2O, which have been convertperiod was reported incorrectly. The balance sheet total Strategy ed into CO2 equivalents for this report according to the for 2017 is CHF 1977.4 million instead of the CHF 2167.6 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4–5 above mentioned fact sheet. Greenhouse gas emissions million published in the prior report. In addition, the for electricity and district heating (Scope 2) were calcu­ adjusted EBIT of 130.6 million Swiss francs was replaced Ethics and integrity lated on the basis of the emission factors reported by by the unadjusted EBIT of 126.1 million Swiss francs. 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 13, 31 the Franke companies. In particular, the omission of the KPI of employee fluctuGovernance The environmental data and occupational health and ation should be emphasized at this point. This is due to 102-18 Governance structure 12 safety data was determined in relation to each other by the lack of data resulting from a change in reporting for dividing the total values by net sales in Swiss francs. the year 2018. It is currently still unclear in what form Stakeholder engagement Many key figures in the Ecology and Social Responsibility fluctuation will be recorded throughout the Group in 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14 – 15 sections are heavily dependent on Franke’s economic the future. It is also still unclear whether this will be pub102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 35 – 36 performance. For this reason, the key figures are listed lished again in the sustainability report in the future. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14 – 15 relative to total net revenues. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14 GRI reference 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 14 – 15 Furthermore, we do not consider the share of temporary This report has been prepared in accordance with the employees in the total workforce to be significant at GRI Standards: Core option. Reporting practice 8.6 percent, and therefore do not discuss in detail their 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 57 precise activities. In addition, there are no significant External assurance for the report 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 57 seasonal fluctuations in the total workforce. No external confirmation was obtained for this report. 102-47 List of material topics 14 – 15, 57 102-48 Restatements of information 58 102-49 Changes in reporting 57 102-50 Reporting period 57 102-51 Date of most recent report 57 102-52 Reporting cycle 57 58 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANNEX 59 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANNEX GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSION AND REMARK REMARK GRI 102: General 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 63 Profitability Disclosures (2016) 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 58 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 41 – 42 102-55 GRI content index 59 – 62 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 41 – 42 102-56 External assurance 58 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41 – 42 Own Indicator Operating result (EBIT) 41 – 42 MATERIAL TOPICS Business integrity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 41 – 42 Energy efficiency in production approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19, 22 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 – 22 Own indicators Number of internal audits 42 7 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20 – 22, 26 Number of employees trained regarding corruption 42 7 GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-3 Energy intensity 20 – 21, 41 Number of employees trained regarding antitrust legislation 42 7 GRI 305: Emissions (2016) 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 21 – 22, 41, 58 Human rights Water, waste water GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 41, 43 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19, 22 – 23 approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 43 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 – 20, 22 – 23 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 43 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 22 – 23, 26 GRI 412: Human Rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures GRI 303: Water (2016) 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 22 – 23 2 Assessment 43 8 GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Waste (2016) 22 – 23 3 Reliability and longevity GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 49 – 50 Material efficiency in production Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 49 – 50 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19, 23, 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 – 50 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 – 20, 23 – 25 Own Indicator Service Call Rate 50 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23 – 26 GRI 301: Materials (2016) 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 23 – 25 4 Safety impacts of products GRI 306: Effluents and 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 49 – 51 Waste (2016) 24 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 49 – 51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 49 – 51 Resource-efficient products (energy) GRI 416: Customer Health 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 19, 25 – 26 and Safety (2016) safety impacts of products and services 50 – 51 9 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 19 – 20, 25 – 26 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 25 – 26 Product innovation GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 49, 51 and services 25 – 26 5 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 49, 51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 Leadership Development Own Indicator Change in net sales of products not older than three years 51 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 31 – 35 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 – 35 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 – 35 Exclusions and remarks: See page 62 GRI 404: Training and 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Education (2016) career development reviews 34 – 35 Occupational safety GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 31, 35 – 36 Approach (2016) 103-2 The management approach and its components 31, 35 – 36 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 – 36 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational sickness, Health and Safety (2016) lost days and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities according to region and gender 35 – 36 6 60 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANNEX 61 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANNEX Exclusions and remarks 1.2Due to the current system landscape, some breakdowns cannot yet be made. We are in the process of developing a new system 6.2Information on the injury rate and the breakdown by region is not yet available. We are working on establishing a data collecCONTACT that will allow us to collect the missing data. The missing data tion process with the goal of reporting on this in 2019. Data on mainly concerns the variables gender and type of employment, the occupational disease rate cannot be collected for reasons which we are not yet able to identify in all areas. We expect to of confidentiality (medical secrecy). For this reason, the following be able to introduce and use this system in 2020. Accordingly, will also not be reported in the future. The type of the injuries we expect to be able to make all the breakdowns from 2020 and the breakdown by gender are also not available. Since onwards. We had to adjust the timing of this target in this year’s Franke wants to avoid injuries completely, regardless of type report, as the introduction of the new system will not yet be or gender, the collection of this data has a low priority. For this completed in 2019. reason, no survey is planned in the near future and therefore 2.2Data on the detailed breakdown by water source is not yet no time horizon can be defined. available. We will collect it for the 2020 report. 7.2From now on, our own indicators are listed for Business Integ3.2The data for a breakdown by water quality is not yet available. rity, as a detailed review has shown that not all requirements We are working on establishing a corresponding data collection of the GRI indicators used to date (GRI 205-1 and GRI 205-2) If you have general questions about sustainability at process with the goal of reporting on this in 2021. Unfortunately, can be met in the near future. The company’s own indicators we had to adjust the timing of this target in this year's report, are based on the GRI standards used to date. This ensures the Franke, please contact: as the necessary capacities for its implementation were not yet continuity of the published data despite the change in indicaavailable. tors. Kirill Bourovoi 4.2Includes the most important non-renewable materials that are 8.2The topic of human rights is part of the e-learning module Manager Sustainability Franke Group used for manufacturing and packaging the products. Data on on the code of conduct. Since this module covers many other Head of Learning & Development Franke Group both renewable raw materials and semi-finished and finished topics, it is not possible to reliably estimate the number of products is not yet included. We are working on establishing a training hours. data collection process with the goal of reporting on this in 2019. 9.2The documented cases relate to the Kitchen Systems division. ▸ sustainability@franke.com 5.2The data for assessing the reduction of the energy demand of our products is not yet available. We are working on establishing a data collection process with the goal of reporting on this in 2020. SDG-INDEX SDG CHAPTER PAGE 3 Social Responsibility, 8 – 9, 30, 36, 48, Product Responsibility 50 – 51 4 Social Responsibility 8 – 9, 30, 34-35 5 Social Responsibility 8 – 9, 30, 34 – 35 6 Environmental Responsibility 8 – 9, 18, 23 7 Environmental Responsibility 8 – 9, 18, 22 Acknowledgments 8 Economical Responsibility 8 – 9, 40, 42, 43 We wish to thank all participants who have supported us 9 Product Responsibility 8 – 9, 48, 51 in the improvement of data quality for their commitment 12 Product Responsibility 8 – 9, 48, 50 and cooperation. 13 Environmental Responsibility 8 – 9, 18, 22, 26 15 Environmental Responsibility 8 – 9, 18, 25 16 Economical Responsibility 8 – 9, 40, 42 Publisher Franke Holding AG, Franke-Strasse 2, 4663 Aarburg, Switzerland Editor BSD Consulting Robert Wildi (Swisscontent AG, Zurich) Matthias Meier, Sunniva Bitschnau (Franke) Translation Madoc Skinner, Zurich Conception/realization Dino Vacca (Swisscontent AG, Zurich) Image credits Balz Murer (p. 4), ETH Zurich (p. 47), Franke 62 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANNEX 63 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONTACT Franke Holding AG Franke-Strasse 2 4663 Aarburg Switzerland www.franke.com
