Communication 2018 2019 on progress Communication 2018 2019 on progress Statement from Dar Chairman and CEO 5 STATEMENT FROM DAR CHAIRMAN AND CEO To our stakeholders, One year after signing the Global Compact, I am pleased to confirm that Dar Al-Handasah (Shair and Partners) reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Over the last year, we have continued to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. We do this by strengthening our governance structures, enforcing our anti-bribery and anti-slavery policies and requiring our business partners to do the same, safeguarding and supporting our people, and conducting corporate social responsibility initiatives that meet societal priorities and drive the achievement of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As part of our commitment to the Compact’s principles of public transparency, I am also pleased to present our first annual Communication on Progress, which describes our efforts to implement the Ten Principles and support the SDGs. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Dar Al-Handasah Consultants (Shair and Partners) Talal K. Shair Chairman and CEO Contents 04 Statement from Dar Chairman and CEO Communication on Progress: 10 Human Rights 12 Labor 24 Environment 34 Anti-bribery and Corruption Pursuing the SDGs: 48 Projects and Business Operations 64 Corporate Social Responsibility Communication on Progress Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-bribery and Corruption » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Human Rights 11 Communication For implementation, Dar has a number of policies and procedures in place to address human rights risks and respond to related concerns. -As noted in Dar’s Modern Slavery Transparency statement, we are committed to tackling concerns relevant to human rights considerations, in particular on Progress -Dar has a comprehensive HSE (health, safety, and noting that we have a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery across our organization, as well as in our supply chains. environment) company policy that ensures that all employees and everyone working on the premises • We deliver our services through our high quality of Dar is safe and operating in a clean space with staff and as such we have robust recruitment access to all needed facilities (water, washing practices supported by representatives of our spaces, restrooms, affordable food, and others). human resources team. Checks include evidence -All employees of Dar are entitled to benefits (paid to support our candidates ‘right to work’ according leave, top-grade medical insurance, educational to local labor legislation. Through such strict support, and others) that meet local labor laws. oversight and involvement, we limit the risk of -We combat discrimination by hiring and promoting being complicit in trafficking or forced labor. qualified individuals, based only on merit and qualification matching and regardless of gender, • As part of our contracting processes, we include ethnicity, religious background, disability, or other specific prohibitions on the use of forced, similar considerations. compulsory, or trafficked labor, or anyone held in -All employees have constant access to a slavery or servitude, whether adults or children, comprehensive grievance system that is explained and we expect our suppliers to hold their own to them in the Employee Handbook. Employees suppliers to the same high standards. can directly report human rights abuses either to their head of department, immediate director, or the • Dar’s employees, especially those in direct contact human resources team. with site workers from outside the company, are -Dar has zero-tolerance policies for sexual mandated by policy to report any suspicions they Human Rights harassment and any form of violence. Employees have regarding possible trafficking cases or poor who exhibit threatening behavior towards coworkers working conditions. are asked to leave the company. • Any violation of Dar’s anti-trafficking or anti-slavery principles by an employee or business partner will As an international design firm, operating under Commitment to our people: We believe that result in immediate termination of any business the slogan of ‘making progress together,’ Dar equipping our people with the knowledge, relationship with Dar. is committed to serving its clients and host skills and information they need, empowers communities through ethical business policies them to become critical thinkers and confident and practices. As such, we recognize and support innovators. We recognize diversity, competence, We also carefully monitor our own workplace the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and and ethical business practices to be sources of environment for indicators of any issues that are committed to complying with both local and strength and foster an environment of mutual may arise with employees. The human resources international legislation and standards that relate respect, teamwork, merit, and integrity. department, for example, conducts comprehensive to the protection of human rights. Through our exit interviews with every employee who decides determination never to be complicit in human rights Commitment to social responsibility: We are in to resign from Dar. The purpose of these interviews abuses, we at Dar are also attempting to ensure the business of making a difference to people’s is to uncover the underlying reasons for voluntary that all those under our control and in our area of lives. Central to our social responsibility are employee turnover, assess workplace climate, influence also share our commitment to ethical the relationships and initiatives we establish and identify ways of improving management and business practices. with governments, communities, citizens and conditions of employment. To do so, the human our employees through equitable employment resources team discusses with the resigning Dar’s approach to protecting human rights for its practices and professional development programs. employee any factors or conditions which might be staff and wider stakeholders follows the spirit of affecting the efficiency, performance, and morale the commitment set out in the Dar Group policy of the remaining employees. The team will also statement, which states: attempt to draw out any comments, complaints, and grievances the employee may have with regards to his or her job, department, and company. The purpose of all of these activities is always to evaluate and improve working conditions at Dar and maintain the high ethical standards we have placed for ourselves. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Labor 13 Communication on Progress Labor Dar is a multidisciplinary engineering consultancy that provides clients with a variety of design, architecture, including, critically, checks for evidence to support their ‘right to work.’ This close involvement and Anti-Slavery and Human engineering, and project management services. The oversight limits the risk of engaging in child labor or Trafficking Policy only way we can do so is by using the capabilities forced or trafficked labor. of our highly-educated and highly-qualified staff of In 2018, Dar introduced its Anti-Slavery and Human person’s liberty by another in order to exploit engineers, architects, designers, planners, economists, Still, we recognize that we as a company are part of Trafficking Policy, through which we expressed our them for personal or commercial gain. We have and other professionals. Since the success of our a value chain that includes suppliers, contractors, commitment to ensuring that modern slavery is not a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery business fundamentally depends on the advanced subcontractors, and numerous others. Moreover, taking place anywhere in our businesses or in any and we are committed to acting ethically and training and specialized skillsets of our employees, we we operate in numerous countries around the world, of our supply chains. The Anti-Slavery and Human with integrity in all our business dealings have stringent human resources policies in place in and in some of these countries, there are risks Trafficking policy applies to all persons working and relationships and to implementing and order to attract and recruit the best and most qualified of encountering modern slavery or child labor in for Dar or on its behalf, in any capacity, including enforcing effective systems and controls to candidates we can find. Moreover, since consistency is different forms. In such contexts, we recognize that employees, directors, officers, agency workers, ensure modern slavery is not taking place key to the performance of our business, we try our very we have a responsibility to leverage our influence to seconded workers, volunteers, interns, agents, anywhere in our own business or in any of our best to retain our employees by offering competitive combat modern slavery and trafficking. Therefore, contractors, external consultants, third-party supply chains. compensation packages that meet all local labor law we have expressed our commitment to international representatives, and business partners. One of the policies and by providing additional benefits including labor conventions and instruments such as the UK opening clauses of this policy explicitly states our Consistent with our disclosure obligations under but not limited to high-quality medical insurance, Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the United Nations company’s zero-tolerance approach to modern the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, we at Dar are annual raises and bonuses based on performance, Global Compact and began implementing policies slavery in all of its forms: committed to ensuring there is transparency in our extra paid vacation days with more years of experience, and procedures, including checks on our business business and in our approach to tackling modern educational benefits, and other perks. partners, that would ensure that we are never Modern slavery is a crime in a number of the slavery throughout our supply chains. The risk of complicit or connected in any way to modern slavery jurisdictions in which we operate and a violation slavery and human trafficking occurring anywhere As a result of the nature of its work as outlined above, or child labor. of fundamental human rights. It takes various in our operations or supply chains is unacceptable, Dar does not have any cases of forced or compulsory forms, such as slavery, servitude, forced and and we are committed to implementing robust labor and no cases of child labor. We do not employ compulsory labor and human trafficking, all and appropriate procedural practices designed to any person below the age of eighteen under any of which have in common the deprivation of a combat and eliminate this terrible risk. We expect circumstances. Our human resources department the same high standards from all of our contractors, conducts numerous checks on potential employees suppliers, and other business partners. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Labor 15 Policy regarding business partners and suppliers As a professional services business, our supply chain is relatively limited and is predominately focused on skilled professional consultant engagements in support of our client-focused work. Nevertheless, at Dar, we want to work with suppliers and other business partners who share our values regarding modern slavery and human trafficking. We are also eager to make a positive impact by leveraging our collaborative relationships with our business partners to ensure that they too share and work towards our opposition to slavery and human trafficking. Therefore, before engaging any supplier or other business partner and even before renewing any existing business arrangement with an existing supplier or business partner, we at Dar conduct and document a risk assessment designed to identify if there is a modern slavery risk. Examples of questions we seek to answer include those listed below. -Does the applicable supplier or business partner operate in a high-risk country or sector? -Are there any red flags in the types of services that the applicable supplier or business partner provides? -Based on desktop research, is there any public All our new or renewed contracts with suppliers or other business partners, record of the applicable supplier or business partner breaching applicable standards, or, alternatively, therefore, include the following provisions: of it making any commitment to the eradication of slavery? (A) The supplier or business partner: -must comply with all applicable anti-slavery and human trafficking laws and not Concerns or questions that arise when carrying out use forced, compulsory or trafficked labor, or hold anyone in slavery or servitude, a risk assessment can be conveyed to the relevant whether adults or children, and include equivalent commitments in its own Head of Department or Director who will, in turn, supplier contracts; consult with the Compliance Officer where necessary -must comply with the legal obligations and principles outlined in Dar’s then to clarify if additional due diligence is needed. published Modern Slavery Transparency Statement; and -must keep proper books and records available for inspection by Dar, auditors or After the risk assessment is conducted and investigatory authorities and include equivalent commitments in its own supplier contracts. the business partner approved and as part of our contracting processes, we will include (B) Dar may immediately terminate the contract if any of the commitments in specific prohibitions against the use of forced, (A) are violated. compulsory, or trafficked labor or of anyone held in slavery or servitude, whether adults or By implementing these requirements, Dar can reduce the likelihood that any of children. We also expect our suppliers to hold their its businesses would be tainted by modern slavery or child labor. We also hope own suppliers to the same high standards when to create a positive ripple effect by requesting that our business partners and signing their own contracts. their own partners be on board with our anti-slavery efforts. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Labor 17 Allocation of responsibilities for the Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy Dar’s Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy The policy also holds management at all levels lays the responsibility of preventing, detecting, responsible for ensuring that those who report to and reporting modern slavery on every person them understand and comply with the provisions working for the company or under its control: from of the policy and that they are given adequate and its directors to its interns. Every person is required regularly training on it and on the issue of modern to avoid any activity that might lead to or suggest a slavery in supply chains. breach of this policy. Dar’s compliance officers are also responsible. The Moreover, the policy states that any employee who policy states that where a local Compliance Officer believes or suspects that a breach of the policy has has been appointed for a certain office, he or she occurred or may occur, or who has any concerns holds the primary and day-to-day responsibility for about any issue or suspicion of modern slavery in implementing this policy in relation to operations of any parts of Dar’s business or any supply chains the applicable office. Where no local Compliance of any supplier tier must notify his or her Head Officer has been appointed, Dar Al-Handasah Chief of Department or Director as soon as possible. Compliance Officer will hold the primary day-to-day The policy also encourages employees to come responsibility. The applicable Compliance Officer forward to their Head of Department or Director if is responsible for monitoring the policy’s use and they are ever unsure about whether a particular act, effectiveness, dealing with any queries about it, and the treatment of workers more generally, or their auditing internal control systems and procedures working conditions within any tier of our supply to ensure they are effective in countering modern chains constitutes any of the various forms of slavery in relation to their appointed remit of modern slavery. responsibility. Finally, the Board of Directors of Dar Al-Handasah Consultants Shair and Partners Holdings Limited (DIFC) has overall responsibility for ensuring this policy complies with our legal and ethical obligations, and that, in turn, all those under Dar’s control comply with it. The Employee Handbook Every new Dar employee undergoes the Dar Orientation and Induction Program, which is a program aimed at introducing him or her to the company, to its human resources processes, and to his or her rights and responsibilities. Every employee has access to the Dar Employee Handbook for reference. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Labor 19 Rights and responsibilities The Employee Handbook familiarizes employees with Dar also prioritizes the safety and security of its The company also aims to raise awareness and For example, it often sends in-house generated all their rights at the company, and Dar consistently employees. A security team is always stationed protect its employees against external threats emails with harmless spam links to employees’ applies all government decrees and labor policies around all Dar buildings and premises and can be they may face. For example, the company keeps work accounts and follows that up with an email in its countries of operation. For example, Lebanese called upon immediately by any employee. First aid important security circulars issued by governmental explaining what had happened and how to employees up to 64 years of age are eligible for assistance services are available at all times for bodies easily accessible to Dar employees. To recognize the key indicators of real spam emails. end-of-service indemnity and are eligible for medical all employees: a specially trained team stands by cite one example, in times of unrest in Beirut, the By doing so on a regular basis, the team ensures insurance and family allowances for as long as they to provide the necessary interventions to support company forwarded a “What to Do in Case of an that employees remain vigilant against the threat of are employed. Meanwhile, employees up to 60 years employees suffering from discomfort, illnesses, or Explosion” circular prepared by the Lebanese spam emails. of age in Egypt are eligible for end-of-service pension injuries until full medical care can be provided, and Ministry of Interior and Municipalities Civil Defense plan and medical allowance according to local labor this team is always one call away. The First Aid team Directorate General to all its employees and kept the Moreover, the team also delivers tip sheets by law. All employees are also eligible for fully paid also assists employees who are looking for blood brochure on the intranet as well. email and consistently shares specialized articles leave days and for paid sick leave days, including donations, either for themselves or for members of containing valuable information, publishing them a specified number of non-consecutive sick days their families, and it does so by disseminating urgent The company also prepares and publishes its own on the intranet where they are easily accessible that the employee may take without presenting any blood appeals by company email to all the other brochures to promote security awareness among to all employees. By offering these services, Dar medical certificate. employees of Dar. its employees. These have included a “What to Do creates a comfortable working environment in which in Case of an Earthquake” brochure, which was employees can feel safe, secure, and well cared for. Employees are also granted paid compassionate Additionally, specially hired cleaning teams visit prepared in-house and preserved on the intranet, leave whenever first-degree deaths occur in their the offices several times a day in order to ensure where it is accessible to all employees. families. Female employees are entitled to paid that working spaces and restrooms are kept at the maternity leave as per local labor laws, and the optimal level of hygiene. Cold and hot drinking water Elsewhere, Dar’s information security team company also follows local labor policies in other is always readily available to employees, and the consistently provides Dar employees with advice matters such as providing paid nursing breaks. company also distributes coffee or tea or juice, free on personal internet security matters such as Moreover, all employees are also granted both life of charge. Dar also maintains a canteen in which avoiding hackers, detecting fraud, and protecting insurance and medical insurance, with the latter a variety of dishes and sandwiches are served at their children from online predators, to cite just a covering physician fees for examinations, daily highly reasonable prices. few examples. The team uses multiple channels for expenses in hospitals, all medically-necessary disseminating such critical information. treatments, and other services. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Labor 21 Combatting discrimination different sects and offers employees an extra optional holiday that can be used to observe a head departments and entire design units in highly technical sectors such as architecture, electrical religious event of their choice. Where appropriate, engineering, information technology, mechanical In accordance with Labor Principle 6 which calls Dar also offers shorter working days for all and structural engineering, marine design, resources for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employees (Muslim and non-Muslim) during the and environment, technical coordination, and employment and occupation, Dar has company holy month of Ramadan. others. Women also serve as project managers on practices that combat discrimination in all its forms. some of the company’s most important projects. For example, we guarantee non-discrimination by With regards to career development, the Employee Though Dar operates in countries with high levels of using a general salary scale which ensures that Handbook clearly outlines the company’s grading gender-based discrimination and a relatively recent all employees and candidates who have similar structure, under which every employee has a acceptance of women in the general workplace, we qualifications and experience are subject to the same grade and a benefit structure in accordance with are committed to hiring qualified women and offering benchmarks irrespective of gender, religion, marital their position within the company. The grading them opportunities for promotion to the highest status, or any such consideration. structure also presents a clear path for promotion, levels. There is significant progress still to be made listing the number of years of experience required in this domain, but we hope to move forward steadily Moreover, Dar’s recruitment process is based solely for promotion with consideration to performance on this point in the next few years. on matching qualifications with the requirements of ratings and merit. the vacancy and again occurs regardless of gender, It is also important to note that Dar has zero religion, or similar considerations. Dar is also an The distribution of managerial positions at Dar tolerance for any form of sexual harassment. equal-opportunity employer with respect to disability, shows an imbalance between male and female Employees who experience sexual harassment and we actively insist on employing qualified people managers at the top level. Still, women at Dar hold may report the incident to the human resources with disabilities. positions of great influence. Our one female director department, and employees who have been found serves as the Director of Operations for Amman and, guilty of such behavior have had their employment Operating as it does in multi-cultural and multidue to their skills and qualifications, several women contracts terminated immediately. religious communities, Dar fights to ensure that proper respect is paid to all religious employees, and it observes public religious holidays for » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Labor 23 Occupational Health and Safety In 2018, Dar Cairo and Dar Amman were awarded the OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certifications. The two certificates are internationally acclaimed as the industry’s most trustworthy indicators of occupational health and safety and sustainable environmental management respectively. Dar’s HSE unit is continuing to pursue certifications for the company’s other design offices, and we are currently in the process of achieving further certification for our design centers, building on our existing certifications, and implementing further enhancements to our systems to achieve ISO 45001. Such an achievement will complement Dar’s Project Management and Construction arm, which has already achieved ISO 45001 accreditation. In the same vein, Dar issued a revised version of its Company Office HSE Procedures in 2019. The document clearly outlines numerous safetyrelated company procedures including, but not limited to, the company’s emergency evacuation requirements procedure, the medical emergency response plan, the HSE travel/transport procedure, accident/incident reporting requirements, DSE risk assessment procedure, task risk assessment procedure, office audit procedure, health and safety guidelines, and emergency environmental response procedures. The procedures are highly detailed and comprehensive. For example, the emergency Grievance mechanism evacuation requirements procedure includes technical details on the fire detection and Recognizing that all employees are entitled to reached with seven calendar days, the employee management systems, the escape routes, receive answers to questions or clarification of can forward the same information to the human the building layout, emergency numbers, and concerns from their immediate director, the Employee resources department. At each level of the meeting, emergency response teams related to the different Handbook also outlines the grievance mechanisms the employee and the immediate director will both be design centers. The company medical emergency and employee resolution procedures that employees included. The human resources team will submit the response plan also lays out the procedures following can use if their requests are not handled satisfactorily final decision to the employee within seven calendar a medical emergency and outlines the internal and or on an informal basis. days of their meeting with the employee. A problem external resources that each center has access to resolution procedure may be stopped at any stage (on-site first aid team and clinic or local hospitals Under the terms of this procedure, the employee with the written consent of all parties concerned. and emergency numbers). attempts to resolve the issue or concern verbally by an appointment with their immediate director. This grievance mechanism is outlined in the By setting such procedures and by training those If the issue is not resolved within seven days, the Employee Handbook so all employees are aware responsible for implementing them, Dar enhances employee can submit a written request to use the of their rights and are aware of how to initiate such the safety and well-being of its employees. Employee Resolution Procedure, together with a a procedure. written document outlining specific problems, to his or her immediate director. If no resolution is » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Environment 25 Communication on Progress Environment Dar is a regional leader in sustainability, pioneering high performance As a tangible outcome of Dar’s efforts to implement Under the terms of the company’s environmental design in the region and supporting international targets for environmental the environmental guidelines in this policy, the policy, each Dar office must undertake an sustainability. We do this by offering designs that reduce energy demands company’s design centers in Amman and Cairo have impacts and aspects assessment and prepare an and promote renewable energy, conserving potable water to assist in relieving both undergone external audits of environmental environmental plan to detail the necessary actions high water stress levels measured in the region, procuring sustainable performance and earned ISO 14001 certification, with the aim of: regional materials to reduce transportation emissions, and setting the proper one of the industry’s most trustworthy indicators of infrastructure to sustainably manage and operate buildings. sustainable environmental management. -Reducing discharges to the atmosphere, water, and ground; Our commitment to the environment, however, begins at home, with Specific goals in the area of the environment for -Reducing the impacts of the remaining discharges; stringent policies and procedures that ensure we are doing our best to limit the upcoming year are to pursue similar certification -Complying with local legislation or with a suitable our footprint and preserve our environment. for the other design centers namely Beirut, Pune, technical framework such as those provided by and London. the World Bank or the World Health Organization (if local legislation does not exist or if it is not deemed comprehensive enough); and Environmental Policy -Undertaking comprehensive auditing of all activities. Dar has a written policy on environmental issues, outlined in the Company Office HSE Procedures. The company’s specialized environmental procedure establishes its goal of developing a comprehensive and effective environmental management system for each of its design centers: Amman, Beirut, Cairo, London, and Pune. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Environment 27 Raising Awareness or suspended objects. The importance of this achievement is highlighted by its contribution to limiting water scarcity even as it is approaches alarming levels in the region. One of the principal stipulations of Dar’s environmental policy is raising awareness. The policy recognizes that while Electricity the company’s office locations can take action to minimize A significant part of Dar’s commitment to environmental sustainability their environmental footprints, complete benefit can only is its ability to reduce its own footprint as compared to international be derived if the entire workforce participates fully in any standards for typical office applications in the relevant climate. To achieve initiative or change. Therefore, each location is required this goal, company procedure dictates that each office should endeavor to develop a comprehensive program of environmental to promote the use of green power generation where appropriate and campaigns designed to raise awareness among employees should develop a method to monitor and reduce energy usage to the and support Dar’s environmental initiatives. minimum. Dar Cairo, for example, uses a building monitoring system that automatically turns off lights after working hours if no motion is detected. These awareness campaigns include setting up HSE Offices and employees are also encouraged to use some of the following noticeboards or tabs on the company’s internal website guidelines to reduce their energy usage. Insidar for the dissemination of general health, safety, and environmental matters. Other campaigns are more office-Turn off unnecessary lights and other electrical equipment. specific. For example, the Beirut office plans awareness -Set computers to go to the lowest energy settings when in standby mode. events and activities like Earth Hour, hiking trips, and apple -Limit usage of facilities during off hours. giveaways designed to support local farmers. -Use stairs and minimize the use of elevators, especially to reach the first floors of buildings. -Ensure that standard emergency electrical equipment is properly maintained. Initiatives and programs -Purchase low energy consumption equipment. to reduce consumption of --Control the HVAC system. Report leaking taps, broken windows, cracks and leaks, overheated rooms, resources and any other situation that wastes heat or energy. Dar also tries to identify alternatives to reduce its environmental Water impacts through trying to minimize the number of trips, prioritizing Dar’s company office environmental procedure also dictates videoconferencing, focusing on low emission cars, trying to reduce the that offices should develop a method to monitor and reduce number of unnecessary journeys, and encouraging carpooling. For the water usage to the minimum taking into account the need latter, Dar maintains a dedicated space on Insidar, the company’s internal to maintain proper hygiene and comply with local legislative website, where interested employees can share their information and requirements. carpool together. Methods of reducing water usage at Dar include: Moreover, the company attempts to use environmentally-friendly -Measuring domestic/potable water consumed on a monthly technologies and materials whenever possible. For example, company basis through water bills; policy states that wherever refrigerants are used, equipment must be -Installing meters for each building; selected on the basis of low energy usage. Refrigerants must have low -Actively searching for water leaks; and global warming potential (GWP) and low ozone depletion potential (ODP), -Reviewing sanitary provisions and identifying means to and no chlorine-based refrigerants banned under the Montreal Protocol reduce water usage. can be used. When equipment containing refrigerants is to be disposed, the process must be closely monitored and recycling undertaken Following these steps, Dar was able to achieve a 46% whenever possible and practicable. reduction in indoor potable water consumption as compared to business-as-usual cases derived from the Energy Policy Act By following the procedures and steps outlined above, we were able to of 1992 with 30% acquired from recycling, treating, and reusing reduce annual energy consumption at our offices to at least 30% and available on-site generated non-potable water. Dar also up to 40% below CBECS and CIBSE reference energy standards for achieved more than 70% reduction in outdoor water demand conditioned buildings and approximately 38% below the ASHRAE energy by selecting native and adaptive species with low water standard for high performance buildings other than low-rise residential demand along with an efficient irrigation system. Moreover, buildings, under its latest version. We have also installed solar panels for our headquarters’ irrigation relies on 100% non-potable water generating on-site renewable energy that constitutes around 2% of our acquired by extracting river water that would then receive only annual operating energy cost. Through such initiatives and others, we will very minor treatment to remove debris and other large floating continue our attempts to reduce our energy and water usage. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Environment 29 Reducing and recycling Development waste materials and diffusion of Dar’s environmental procedures also lay out the For safety reasons, all offices must ensure that environmentally friendly necessity of a comprehensive waste management proper, clean, and well-maintained storage areas technologies procedure for each of the design centers. Dar are provided for occasions when any food or toxic, contracts companies to remove waste from its hazardous, medical, and sanitary waste is stored on As a design and engineering consultancy, Dar offices, and any contractor undertaking waste site prior to disposal. is deeply involved in various projects employing management or removal services on behalf of renewable energy solutions, including photovoltaic Dar must be properly licensed according to local The company also introduced other initiatives systems, wind energy, and hydropower. We also legislation. When licensed contractors are not to segregate and recycle waste. Dar Beirut, for incorporate renewable energy into various project available, the office must ensure that the waste example, introduced specific bins at the entrance types including educational facilities, corporate contractor is competent and takes reasonable to each Dar-affiliated building and parking in order headquarters, airports, buildings, and others. steps to ensure that waste is disposed of in the best to collect batteries and dispose of them in an Since 2018, Dar provided its consultancy services period, for example, we have continued developing environmentally friendly manner available. The goal environmentally-friendly manner. for hydropower projects in Angola and three our capabilities in green buildings. As of 2018, is to reduce and segregate waste, comply with local photovoltaic plants, with a combined annual yield Dar employs over 475 certified green building legislation, and undertake comprehensive auditing of Dar Beirut also partnered with FabricAID, a of over 45,000 MWh, in Jordan. We also defined an professionals. Our teams are also highly experienced all waste management activities. non-governmental organization that collects, sorts, on-site renewable energy strategy for the upcoming in designing high-performance, green buildings. and redistributes used clothes to disadvantaged Al Maktoum International Airport, which is projected We have a proven track record in providing designs Each office in the design centers of Beirut, Cairo, communities at micro-prices ($0.3-$2 per item). to become one of the largest airports in the world. that allow buildings to meet the certification and Amman has several waste collection points. Its goal is to deliver good quality clothing into the For more details on these and other related projects, requirements of green building rating systems such Each employee has a bin for general waste (food hands of people who need them, while reducing please check Dar’s contributions towards Sustainable as LEED, BREEAM, Estidama PRS, and GSAS. Our wrappers, used pens, and similar). Bins for paper fabric waste. Specific containers were set up Development Goal 7 Affordable and Clean Energy in designs can reach up to LEED Platinum and GSAS and recyclables are placed on each floor at strategic outside company buildings to collect any items section 6 of this report. 5-star standards. In 2018, Dar received the final points, and one hazardous bin is also based at a that employees no longer use. In August 2019, 95 LEED certification on its 21st new LEED-certified strategic point on each floor. The IT department is kilograms of clothes were collected from Dar Beirut Moreover, Dar is heavily invested in activities construction project and final GSAS certification to responsible for waste resulting from laptops and by FabricAID, and the partnership is an ongoing one. that could improve the energy efficiency of the its 34th new construction project. computers, and waste generated in the medical designs we offer our clients. In the last reporting clinic is be treated as hazardous waste. Waste is then removed from the office to a licensed area for further processing by a licensed waste contractor. The waste contractor will issue regular reports detailing the types of waste collected and approximate weight of each waste stream. The intent is to recycle as much waste as possible and reduce the amount sent to landfills. Moreover, company policy dictates that all waste management contractors should be audited in order to verify their compliance with local regulations and that all waste is tracked to its final destination by the administration with technical input from the HSE unit. The HSE manager undertakes an annual review to ensure the proper implementation of this procedure. The administration also keeps waste management related records and reports them to the HSE department for analysis and management review. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Environment 31 In 2018, and at a company level, Dar sponsored and participated in multiple events for green buildings and sustainability awareness (organized by the Word Green Building Council or local green building councils). These were mainly events held in Lebanon, Jordan, India, and Cairo that tackled matters of advancing sustainability towards Net Zero targets. In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the team has also published several articles in local newspapers to promote the concept of sustainable design and support the Kingdom’s Vision 2030. In 2018, Dar also contributed to the academic field and its team participated in ASHRAE conferences on energy efficiency and published several papers on topics such as design optimization for maintaining occupants’ outdoor thermal comfort, hygrothermal engineering analysis of walls and roofs in hot and humid climates, and prediction and control of noise and vibration within a sport facility. Elsewhere, Dar is an active member of the US Green Building Council (USGBC) and the UK Green Building Council (UKGBC), and the company is also an official Global Sustainability Assessment Scheme (GSAS) Service Provider. Whenever possible, Dar also aims to Outside of its professional endeavors in renewable energy, Dar also supports the development of contribute to shaping policies that environmentally friendly technologies by offering both sponsorship and technical expertise. To support the diffusion of green building cite an illustrative example, in August 2019, Dar Beirut sponsored and supported the design and technologies. For example, Dar Cairo construction of a solar boat, operating solely on renewable energy. has been heavily involved in the Egyptian Green Building Council (EGGBC) and The boat, designed and operated by a team of students and Dar engineers, was entered into the in the development of the Egyptian Official Extreme Energy Solar Boat Competition hosted by the Lebanese Ministry of Energy and TARSHEED rating system. Water. It placed second. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Environment 33 Dealing with Environmental Incidents By company policy, each office must produce an environmental aspects and impacts register. The HSE manager is responsible for developing the register for each location; for authorizing, updating, and safeguarding the procedure; and for coordinating any necessary actions. The process of developing this register is identifying and specifying local environmental legislation or rules; identifying all direct or indirect environmental aspects and their potential positive or negative impacts (air pollution, noise nuisance, indirect impacts, and others); evaluating each impact and estimating frequency of occurrence and severity; and compiling the register. The risks are then evaluated through a company risk assessment matrix and characterized as “low risk,” “medium risk,” or “high risk.” The policy also sets out company emergency environmental response procedures for environmental incidents with significant impacts. The head of the administration department is responsible for the procedure and for nominating the emergency coordinator, who takes charge of and coordinates all activities during any emergency situation. The policy sets up a procedure for immediate incident reporting and mechanisms for assessing and responding to incidents and for evacuating the offices if necessary. These comprehensive procedures are set in place even though it must be noted that Dar offices do not store large quantities of toxic chemicals, that significant releases are not expected, and that it is unlikely that any environmental incident would occur that would require evacuation of an office. Indeed, Dar has experienced no investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines, and other relevant events related to the environmental principles in the last reporting period. ISO 14001 certifications Finally, as part of its corporate social responsibility, for Dar’s design centers in Dar is heavily involved in environmental initiatives. For more information, please check section 7 of this report. Amman and Cairo » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Anti-bribery and Corruption 35 Communication Detailed policies for high-risk areas of on Progress corruption understanding that if Dar fails to prevent bribery, it Dar operates in numerous countries around the can face irreparable damage including an unlimited world. Some of these countries have high rates fee, debarment from tendering for contracts, and of corruption and bribery, while others have local damage to its reputation. practices and customs surrounding gift exchanges which may potentially blur the lines of bribery. To In a message introducing the Anti-Bribery and navigate such pitfalls, Dar enforces an absolute Corruption Policy, Dar Chairman Talal Shair stated prohibition on giving or receiving gifts, hospitality, that “the Board of Dar Al-Handasah Consultants or travel benefits and on paying expenses were Shair and Partners Ltd (DIFC) has approved a doing so might, or might be perceived to, improperly Compliance and Anti-Bribery and Corruption influence a business decision, for example during Policy Statement and is introducing this a contract/tender process. Any form of gifts, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, not only to hospitality, travel, or other advantage offered ensure that Dar Al-Handasah complies with the and received is subject to an assessment on its anti-corruption laws and conventions applicable acceptability and appropriateness, regardless of the to its worldwide operations, but to continue to be amount or value. Under the policy, interactions with a leader in best business practices.” The same public officials are subject to heightened attention Anti-Bribery and Corruption commitment was reiterated in an anti-bribery and corruption policy statement which announced that Dar is “committed to complying with laws and stricter conditions. Facilitation payments, of any amount and to any recipient who is not legitimately entitled to receive them, are prohibited. and regulations designed to combat bribery and Dar also prohibits offering or making any kind of corruption” in all areas of operation. political contribution either with the company’s A comprehensive anti-bribery and funds or on its behalf. Furthermore, Dar has human resources policies in place to ensure that all hiring corruption commitment for Dar decisions are made on the merits and qualifications and its partners of the candidate and that no internships, offers of employment, and sponsorships of visas are offered or provided with the purpose of gaining an improper In any form and anywhere around the world, bribery and corruption cause business advantage. poverty and suffering, inhibit economic growth, and damage businesses. At Dar, we are committed to adhering to the highest standards of ethical behavior In addition to assessing whether there are any in the conduct of our businesses across the globe. We aim to foster long-term ‘red flags’ associated with the proposed gift, the relationships with our clients and communities, relationships that are founded company also sets strict thresholds on any gifts, just as much in trust, honesty, integrity, and ethical business practices as they hospitality, and travel benefits offered to nonare in technical excellence and the pride we have in our work. public officials; exceeding such thresholds requires investigation and, if found appropriate, approval by To establish this objective, Dar abides by all the applicable laws and regulations the management and the Compliance Officer. Any in each of our countries of operation. Moreover, Dar has its own publicly gifts, hospitality, and travel benefits – regardless stated formal policy of zero tolerance for any form of bribery or corruption, of value – must be stringently investigated and enforced through a stringent and comprehensive Anti-Bribery and Corruption approved by management and the Compliance Policy which applies to all individuals working for or on behalf of Dar (whether Officer before being presented to public officials. through permanent, fixed, or temporary employment) including all of the company’s directors, officers, and senior management professionals. Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy also extends beyond the company’s own employees and applies equally to all associated persons including all suppliers, service providers, agents, affiliates, representatives, contractors, joint venture partners, consultants, brokers, and any other persons providing services for, or on behalf of, the company. Our policy is also based on the full » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Anti-bribery and Corruption 37 Detailed policy on anti-corruption regarding business partners As mentioned previously, Dar’s Anti-Bribery and Responsibility for carrying out the risk assessment Potential risks include but are not limited to Following the due diligence, Dar requires all Corruption Policy extends beyond company and due diligence remains with the team leading the jurisdiction risk (proposed services will be associated persons to provide a certificate employees and applies to all persons or parties engagement of the applicable third party, and that performed in countries which are perceived as confirming that they have read and accepted Dar’s associated with Dar, including joint venture team is identifiable by reference to the Dar Director having a high risk of bribery), a transaction risk (the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. Alternatively, partners, consultants, suppliers, and any other who is ultimately responsible for approving the proposed service is likely to involve, among others, Dar’s Compliance Officer must determine that persons providing services for, or on behalf of, engagement. For concerns or queries regarding promotional expenditure, travel allowances, several the associated person has an anti-bribery and the company. In order to combat the spread of the proposed engagement, the applicable Director contractors, and cash payments or comprise corruption policy that is aligned with Dar’s. corruption and anti-bribery and to maintain its or Head of Department may liaise directly with the obtaining government licenses and permits or public high business ethics and best practices, Dar Compliance Officer or the DIFC Board of Directors, procurement), and personal relations. Moreover, the company’s policy mandates that mandates that risk assessment and, where as appropriate. agreements with associated persons contain appropriate, due diligence be carried out when appropriate anti-bribery and corruption provisions. engaging any third parties or even renewing an By policy, Dar’s standard terms and conditions for existing business relationship. purchases and services must contain anti-bribery and anti-corruption provisions. Furthermore, these provisions cannot be removed or amended without the approval of the Compliance Officer. All other contracts with associated persons must include provisions stating that the associated persons must not pay or receive any bribes and must comply with the requirements of the anti-corruption laws applicable to Dar’s business operations. Associated persons must also agree to comply with and act in a manner consistent with Dar’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and to keep proper books and records available for inspection not only by Dar but also by auditors or investigatory authorities. Finally, associated persons must agree that any violation of Dar’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy will be ground for the immediate termination of their business relationship with Dar. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Anti-bribery and Corruption 39 Implementation: Communications Dar has undertaken numerous concrete actions designed to implement anti-corruption (whistleblowing) channels policies, reduce anti-corruption risks, and respond to incidents. and follow-up mechanisms for reporting concerns or seeking advice Detailed policy on Dar recognizes the critical role employees play in helping their company maintain the highest standards of honesty, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy establishes communication (whistleblowing) channels anti-corruption regarding openness, and accountability. As mentioned previously, through which employees can report concerns all Dar employees are trained to recognize bribery, and and seek advice. business partners employees will usually be the first to know when someone connected with a transaction is doing something illegal Employees can make formal reports Every single Dar employee is required to undertake or improper. at any time either orally or in writing to an Anti-Bribery and Corruption course. For the Compliance Officer, their Head of accessibility, the course is available in English, Company policy requires employees to report any suspected Department, or the Director to whom they Arabic, French, and Portuguese to cater to all Dar or observed violations of anti-bribery and anti-corruption report, depending on their preferences and employees around the world. The course teaches laws, set by either the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy or on the nature of their concern including the employees how to recognize different forms of by any other Dar policy. The policy also guarantees that no seriousness of the malpractice and who they bribery, and it explains bribery offences, penalties, employee will suffer any demotion, penalty, or other adverse think is involved. and consequences for individuals and companies. consequences for reporting incidents in good faith or It uses case studies and elaborate fictional refusing to engage in bribery, even if such a refusal results in Employees are encouraged to report concerns scenarios to demonstrate the various ways in Dar losing business. Moreover, the policy stipulates that any and are not expected to have absolute proof which offenses can be committed and to familiarize attempts to deter individuals from raising concerns or any of any misconduct or malpractice, though they employees with the repercussions. subsequent retaliation against individuals who speak up will will need to be able to explain the reasons for be treated as a serious disciplinary offence. their concerns. The detailed modules first introduce employees to bribery law and enforcement, the consequences of To encourage employees with knowledge of wrongdoing Dar guarantees that no employee will be bribery, various offences and related penalties, and to come forward and draw attention to such matters, Dar’s penalized for drawing attention to illegal or real-life cases prosecuted worldwide. improper actions and that, whenever possible, all reported information will be handled internally The course also explains how bribes are offered All employees are required to certify annually that with the utmost confidentiality. The company and received: it covers how bribery works in they have read and understood the Anti-Bribery and also commits to doing everything possible to practice, tackles gifts and hospitality, and explains Corruption Policy, which also provides clear guidance keep the identity of the reporter secret, if he or why “no intent to bribe” is not a valid defense and on bribery. For one, it presents the company’s she wishes to remain anonymous. why vigilance against bribery is always required. A comprehensive definition of what constitutes a dedicated module relates specifically to the bribery bribe: a definition that ranges from making cash or After a report is submitted, preliminary of public officials. facilitation payments and employing public officials enquiries are made to determine whether or their relatives to offering vouchers, free products/ a full investigation is necessary. If such an The final module of the course examines the services, large discounts, or other cash equivalents. investigation is necessary then, depending on corporate offence of failing to prevent bribery Where appropriate, training is also offered to third the nature of the misconduct, it will be conducted explaining who can be found guilty (organizations parties providing services to Dar. internally by senior management or through and individuals) and outlining the steps Senior management and the compliance team an internal audit or referred to the appropriate organizations should take to protect themselves are also available to provide guidance where and external person (for example, our external legal against bribery charges (including the adequate when required. Management at all levels are also advisors or auditors) for investigation. Subject to procedures defense). responsible for ensuring that those reporting to them any legal constraints, the employee who came understand and comply with the Anti-Bribery and forward with the report will be informed of the Anti-bribery and anti-corruption training is also Corruption Policy, and that they are given adequate outcome of the preliminary enquiries, the full provided to all personnel immediately following the and regular training on it. investigation, and any further actions that have opening of any new Dar office. been taken. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Anti-bribery and Corruption 41 Internal checks and Participation in voluntary balances anti-corruption initiatives The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy explicitly Dar participated in the UN Global Compact Network states that Dar’s directors and managers intend to Lebanon’s fifth Lebanon Collaboration for the foster a culture of integrity and create a “top-down” Sustainable Development Goals event, which was message and commitment that bribery is never held on May 29, 2019 in the Maamari Auditorium at acceptable and that the requirements of the policy the American University of Beirut. must be strictly adhered to at all times by every Dar employee and every person associated with the The event focused on the themes of anti-corruption company or acting on its behalf. and the environment and was designed to showcase several partnerships and ongoing efforts taking The company’s Board takes overall responsibility place in Lebanon in relation to the SDGs. and accountability for the implementation of Dar’s anti-corruption commitment and policy and for Due to its commitment to the United Nations Global ensuring that the policy complies with Dar’s legal Compact (UNGC) and its valuable experience and ethical obligations. Meanwhile, primary dayin the field of anti-corruption, Dar was invited to to-day responsibility for implementing the policy collaborate with the UNSDG Lebanon Network on and monitoring its use and effectiveness falls to this milestone. the company’s Compliance Officer. The policy lists out the activities that require consultation Dar Group General Counsel and Compliance Officer with or permission from the Compliance Officer, Mr. Teymour Salaam represented Dar at the event and this person is readily available at all times for and participated in a panel discussion on anyone seeking advice or answers to questions and anti-corruption. Mr. Salaam presented a practical concerns related to the Policy. case of anti-corruption, sharing Dar Group’s experience in implementing a stringent anti-bribery Additionally, management at all levels are and anti-corruption policy in operations across the responsible for ensuring that those reporting to Middle East, Africa, and Asia. them understand and comply with the policy and are given adequate and regular training on it. To provide an additional layer of security, compliance and auditing teams need to work together to consistently check for any irregularities and to improve systems and procedures. Dar implements stringent financial control policies that govern all payments, and the company intends to ensure that its internal accounting system and controls also act as internal checks and balances to detect potential bribery payments or other inappropriate payments. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Anti-bribery and Corruption 43 Measurement of outcomes Dar has not been involved in any legal cases or rulings PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to conduct another related to corruption or bribery in the reporting period. independent review of Dar’s risk and compliance, and As we seek to strengthen our anti-bribery and antithe board was informed of the results. corruption systems, our goal for the next reporting period is to achieve ISO 37001 certification for our Dar’s commitment to anti-bribery and anti-corruption anti-bribery management systems. To achieve this is an extension of the similar and wider commitment ” goal, Dar is seeking to ensure that each of its major made by Dar’s mother company, Dar Group, to offices has a dedicated local compliance officer this same cause. In 2018, Dar Group management I would like to reiterate our to monitor all relevant activities. Dar has already took steps to further strengthen the oversight of appointed a compliance officer for its design centers in Cairo and London, and the company will soon appoint Group activity at the level of the Board of Directors and bolstered Group resources, adding key roles commitment to the another for the design center in Amman and will look into appointing qualified candidates for the Beirut and in risk and compliance including the role of Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) of the entire Dar Group. Anti-Corruption and Pune centers as well. Similar professionals have also been appointed for area operations offices in Angola, Dar Group also created a new Risk and Compliance Committee, which is a sub-committee of the Group’s Anti-Bribery Policy. We the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, and plans are ongoing for appointments in Audit Committee. Made up of senior management professionals and responsible for ensuring cannot and will not tolerate Nigeria and West Africa. compliance in both Dar and the wider Dar Group, the Risk and Compliance Committee reports to the any behavior that deviates Another step towards achieving the ISO 37001 certification was working with internal auditors to Audit Committee and Dar Group’s Board of Directors. Attempts to continue building a robust compliance from best practice in the business, and more monitor compliance and hiring two independent program also included enhancing communication law firms – the US-based Pepper Hamilton and among compliance managers across all of the the UK-based Greenwoods GRM – to review the Group’s operating businesses while meeting the company’s internal controls and procedures. Once regulatory needs of the sixty countries in which the governance structures will their tasks are complete, the two law firms will report Group operates. their findings to the board. In 2018, Dar also engaged be established over the next few years, so that by 2020 we will have achieved our vision. ” – Dar Chairman and CEO Mr. Talal Shair, in an October 5, 2018 speech given at the annual gathering of Dar Cairo employees. » back to table of contents Pursuing the SDGs Projects and Business Operations Corporate Social Responsibility » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Projects and Business Operations 47 Pursuing the SDGs Meeting Commitments: Dar and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Projects and Business Operations Since signing the United Nations Global Compact, Pediatric Hematology to support children with sickle and advanced training for medical personnel – to transformational project to create five LEED-certified Dar has been involved in numerous high-impact cell anaemia. Among such specialized centers, Dar provide the detailed design of the Aswan Heart hospital complexes including the Women’s Hospital at projects that serve to promote several of the UN’s also prepared the detailed design and construction Center. According to research by the foundation, King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences sustainable development goals. documents for the 250-bed New Burns Hospital in cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in Riyadh; the King Abdullah Specialized Children Kilamba and the Lubango Mother and Child Hospital. out of all non-communicable diseases in Egypt, Hospital; the Neuroscience and Trauma Care Center and the available medical facilities cannot meet the at the National Guard’s King Abdulaziz Medical City in The company’s services in Angola have supported extensive and urgent demand for treatment. With Jeddah; the King Salman Specialized Hospital in Taif; Goal 3: Good Health efforts to facilitate access to healthcare. To cite an illustrative example, Dar delivered the detailed design the new center and with the latest technologies and techniques in cardiovascular medical care, the and the King Abdullah Specialized Hospital in Qassim. In Lebanon, Dar is providing the detailed design for and Well-being and construction documents for the first public foundation expects to triple the number of hearts it a world-class healthcare facility, designed with a hemodialysis center in Angola’s Huíla province. saves, all while providing free-of-charge services in capacity of 160 beds and in accordance with LEED v4 The state-of-the-art center, which was inaugurated order to grant easy access to vulnerable populations. Gold Certification for Healthcare requirements. Through its business operations as a leading design in June 2019, meets an urgent gap in the market: Dar also prepared the detailed design and tender and engineering consultancy, Dar has been involved previously, patients in need of the critical treatment documents for Egypt’s new Madinaty Medical Center Dar also designed training facilities for aspiring in several efforts to promote the availability of had to travel over 370 kilometres to reach the and continues to provide project management and medical professionals including the Talatona quality general and specialized healthcare in its host nearest dialysis center. With new technologies and site supervision services for the construction of the University Clinic in Angola and a new annex for the communities. For example, in Angola, the company patient-centric design, the new center offers New Dar Al Fouad Hospital in Egypt. College of Medicine within Al Najah National University has played an active role in developing the healthcare top-grade medical services to the people of Huíla, in Campus in Nablus, Palestine. This annex is designed to industry: renovating and refurbishing critical sections their own backyard. Elsewhere in the Middle East, Dar completed the serve as a center for research, training, and education of the Central Hospital of Lubango; designing and master plan, detailed design, and tender documents for continuous medical learning and advancement. supervising the construction of the 200-bed Cabinda Dar also contributed to healthcare projects in other and supervised the construction of Qatar’s Tarsheed General Hospital; and designing the renovation and countries in Africa. In Nigeria, Dar designed and Hospital, a high quality medical services facility that expansion of an existing hospital building dedicated supervised the construction of the new Capital provides secondary and tertiary care that focuses to the treatment of pulmonary diseases at the Health Surgical Center Hospital in Abuja. In Egypt, on mother and child, cardiopulmonary, orthopedic, Sanatorium Hospital of Luanda. We also designed the company was commissioned by the Magdi and neurology services as well as long-term care. and supervised the construction of the specialized Yacoub Heart Foundation – a charity NGO with a In Saudi Arabia, Dar continues to provide detailed Camama Mother and Child Hospital and an Institute of commitment to providing free medical services design, medical equipment planning, interior design, and supervision of construction services for a » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Projects and Business Operations 49 In Dubai, Dar delivered the concept design for the Also on a university level, Dar continued, in 2018, state-of-the-art Junior Mainstream and Special to be involved in several large-scale projects. For Educational Needs (SEN) Schools located in Dubai’s example, the company continued its involvement Yas Island. With a total pupil capacity of 1,100 and in a decade-long project during which it provided a gross floor area of 23,000 m2, this educational master planning, detailed design, tender complex is designed to serve junior and secondary documents, tender management, and supervision students. More importantly, it aims to make education of construction services for one main university more accessible by accommodating and catering to campus and two branches joined to the King Saud pupils with a wide range of special needs. Elsewhere in University for Health Sciences in Saudi Arabia. Dubai, Dar is also currently reviewing and completing Each of the three sites comprises world-class Goal 4: Quality the design and supervising the construction of a school building, with a built-up area of 27,952 m2, for educational, residential, recreational, support and administrative buildings dedicated to health Education the Scientific Research Primary School. sciences. The Riyadh campus includes the King Abdullah Specialty Children’s Hospital (542 beds In the Yasmeen City in Doha, Qatar, the company for pediatric and adult functions); a cardiovascular As a design and engineering consultancy, Dar’s is involved in designing a primary school and two center and ambulatory care center (300 beds); a contributions to Sustainable Development Goal kindergartens designed to cater to families in a Central Colleges Complex housing the colleges 4: Quality Education are limited to Target 4.A Build district that will accommodate 18,000 residents. of medicine, nursing, and science and health and Upgrade Safe and Inclusive Schools. Within professions, dentistry, public health, pharmacy, this target, however, Dar has managed to compile a Dar is also involved in projects that facilitate the applied medical sciences, and the deanship of broad portfolio of educational facilities, through the provision of specialized or vocational training and higher studies and continuing education; the course of its normal business operations. education. In Oman, for example, Dar is designing Clinical Skills Development Center; and the King and supervising the construction of a vocational Abdullah International Research Center. The We collaborate with educational planners to create technical training Center of Excellence (CoE) on an Jeddah and Hasa campuses each include a Central modern educational institutions. Our schools and enormous site area of 1,000,000 m2. The center Colleges Complex housing the colleges of medicine universities weave together the latest technologies, is designed for the training of oil and gas process (Jeddah), nursing, science and health professions, teaching facilities, and research trends. From operations, electrical, mechanical, and instrumentation applied medical sciences, deanship of higher classroom to labs, our experience covers the technicians. The project consists of a main building studies, Clinical Skills Development Center, and myriad facets of educational designs that help our for management and administration offices and Research Center. communities move forward. This year, Dar continued classrooms; a workshop building and internal process to offer its expertise and services to clients seeking training plant skids; recreational and leisure facilities; to create exceptional educational facilities that and public and parking areas. In 2018, Dar also meet a wide range of needs: from kindergartens delivered the detailed design and tender documents and primary schools to general universities and for a specialized research and development highly specialized educational labs. Throughout laboratory and a 19,573 m2 Petroleum Engineering these ventures, our designers and engineers have and Geoscience College, both of which are attached been guided by the goal of facilitating the delivery of to the King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals accessible, quality education across the region. (KFUPM) in Saudi Arabia. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Projects and Business Operations 51 In the United Arab Emirates, the company 147,286 m2, this project accommodates a total and K-12 education with a capacity of 633 These projects are simply recent highlights continued offering detailed design and undergraduate and graduate student enrolment of students and a community-based day of our portfolio of educational projects, a supervision of construction services for the 10,375 students for both colleges as well as 905 care with a capacity of 112 children. The portfolio that includes over 65 universities Phase 1 development of the University of Dubai. faculty members and support staff members. It scope also includes specialized research and schools and provides enrolment Phase 1 comprises buildings (with a total built-up comprises men’s and women’s colleges with all centers such as the Center for Futuristic and facilities for over 190,000 students. We area of 23,700 m2) for the general administration, educational, administrative, and faculty offices Strategic Studies, the Gulf Studies Center, will continue to use our expertise and our the College of Information Technology, and the and services, including auditoria, classrooms, and the Academic Publication Council experience in the educational sector to College of Business. Apart from ensuring that laboratories, libraries, teaching and learning building. Through this project, Dar is also spread access to quality education and the buildings anticipate and meet the needs resources, and recreational and support facilities providing extensive services that enhance design cohesive campuses and buildings that of future students, Dar is tasked with creating in addition to a basement accommodating building life in an educational complex: these include cultivate learning and inspire creativity in the well-maintained, comfortable, and aesthetically services and car-parking. housing facilities for faculty and students, generations who pass through their hallways. pleasing spaces by providing all landscaping, waste management facilities, construction infrastructure, and electromechanical services. In a separate but related project, Dar is providing and maintenance facilities, stores and design, tender management, and supervision of workshops, central food depot, press Dar also sustained its efforts in supervising construction services for an enormous project building, newspaper offices, and a bookstore. the construction of the Colleges of Arts and covering various support facilities related to Education for the Sabah Al-Salem University the Sabah Al-Salem University. These include a City in Kuwait. With a total built-up area of community-based public model school for pre-K » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Projects and Business Operations 53 Goal 6: Clean Water and Sanitation Dar’s hydrology, hydraulics, and treatment specialists work with its planners, engineers, and socio-environmental specialists, applying stateof-the-art technologies and years of practical experience, in order to channel the full potential of water and enable communities to benefit from it. Through our projects in the water sector, we contribute significantly to several targets under Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation, including targets 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3. With regards to achieving adequate and equitable sanitation and hygiene for all (target 6.2) and halving the proportion of untreated wastewater (target 6.3), Dar designed the enormous Umm Al-Hayman Wastewater Treatment Plant, a plant with a Phase 1 capacity of 500,000 m3 per day serving the people of Kuwait. We also designed and rehabilitated sewerage networks, wastewater collection systems, and wastewater treatment plants for a number of project areas in Lebanon, Kenya, Qatar, Angola, the United Arab Emirates, and other countries. On ensuring universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all, Dar played its part by rehabilitating, upgrading, and expanding water supply systems in Angola; designing potable water networks in a number of projects across the region; and contributing to a desalination system in Jordan. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Projects and Business Operations 55 Goal 7: Affordable and Clean Energy As one of the recognized leaders in the Middle Eastern and African power sectors, Dar is determined to meet the future of social and environmental welfare. For this reason, we are deeply involved in various projects employing renewable energy solutions, including photovoltaic systems, wind energy, and hydropower. Our projects include economic and environmental analysis and feasibility studies as well as the seamless integration of renewable energy into various project types. In Jordan, for example, Dar provided extensive consultancy services – including technical and financial feasibility studies, energy yield simulation, concept designs, and tender documents – for the Social Security Investment Fund’s Photovoltaic Plant. The 20 MWp power plant has an estimated annual yield of 37,000 MWh and the ongoing project aims to integrate this energy with the national grid. Dar is also involved in other renewable energy projects in Jordan. In one, the company is providing design review, construction management, contract management, supervision of testing and commissioning, and performance monitoring services for a 33MWp photovoltaic plant, located in Maan and also integrated with the Jordanian national grid. Dar also provided the detailed design and tender documents for another solar energy project, this time a 5MWp photovoltaic power plant with an estimated annual yield of 9,000 MWh, designed for the Jordan Phosphate Mines Company and to be financial feasibility study; and recommending the Apart from projects that are strictly related integrated with the national grid at 33kV level. most feasible approach to execute the renewable to renewable energy, Dar also promotes the energy strategy in terms of phasing and construction pursuit of clean and affordable energy wherever In 2018, Dar also concluded a project on setting an contractual scheme. With this project, Dar has appropriate. For example, in creating master on-site renewable energy strategy and framework managed to move one of the most ambitious aviation plans for new developments such as the Ain for the Al Maktoum International Airport in the United projects closer to renewable energy and a greener, Al-Soukhna Special Economic Zone in Egypt, Arab Emirates. Once complete, this airport will be one more sustainable future. Dar promotes the incorporation of sustainability of the largest in the world, with an annual capacity of initiatives that both produce clean energy and over 200 million passengers per year, and it has an Dar is also heavily involved in hydropower projects. reduce energy requirements. expected annual energy consumption of 2,900 GWhr In Angola, the company provided supervision of for its entire Phase 1. To meet part of this enormous construction services for the sensitive task of Through such initiatives and others, Dar hopes demand, Dar defined an on-site renewable energy heightening the 60-m-high, 300-m-long double to continue working towards making clean strategy for the airport: this comprised determining curvature concrete arch Cambambe Dam. In parallel, and affordable energy available to ever wider suitable locations for the deployment of renewable Dar contributed a host of technical and supervision communities across the region. energy plants; preparing a detailed technical study services for the rehabilitation of the Cambambe covering various renewable energy sources (solar, Hydroelectric Power Plant to reach a capacity of 288 wind, waste to energy, and geothermal energy) to MV. This project was concluded in 2018. determine the most viable ones; defining plants’ characteristics and preparing annual energy yield simulation; assisting in the preparation of the » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Projects and Business Operations 57 Goal 9: Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure As one of the leading infrastructure design consultancies in the Middle East and Africa, Dar contributes significantly to the achievement of Goal 9. Our projects specifically respond to targets 9.1 (develop quality, reliable, sustainable, and resilient infrastructure, including regional and trans-border infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being) and target 9.4 (upgrade infrastructure and retrofit industries to make them sustainable, with increased resource-use efficiency and greater adoption of clean and environmentally sound technologies and industrial processes). A number of projects we have undertaken fall under those goals. For example, in Abu Dhabi, Dar worked with the Department of Urban Planning and Municipalities to update the Infrastructure Framework Plan with the main objective of safeguarding conflict-free infrastructure network utility corridors and utility plots including roads, highways, public transport systems, water and In Nigeria, Dar is preparing a master plan for the wealth of environmental features; and enhance Dar also provided infrastructure design services wastewater networks, and others. In Egypt, we Amfani Industrial Park and City, a projected industrial a sustainable living environment with a balanced for upcoming cities such as the New Administrative provided the detailed design for all infrastructure complex and township on a 1,060 ha site. The project system that promotes vehicular and pedestrian Capital in Egypt, industrial city projects, special networks serving Madinaty’s City Center and a is designed to host community facilities, a capacity mobility and explores water-based transport. economic zones, research centers, hotels, historical number of other districts in the city: these networks training institute, agro-processing centers, and Working on this project serves to advance a districts, and numerous other projects. include water supply, wastewater collection and tourism attractions. Dar’s master plan aims to create number of goals, including promoting decent work disposal, stormwater drainage, irrigation systems, a superior commercial development which makes opportunities, promoting sustainable transport In upcoming years, we hope to continue to partner and a water pipeline to the city’s main water network. use of its advantageous proximity to Kainji Dam and options, and creating infrastructure that supports with governments and visionary clients to create Such infrastructure significantly enhances human Kainji Lake; provide a versatile development program economic development. large-scale infrastructure that triggers economic well-being and also contributes to the achievement which ensures a robust sustainable economy, and development and creates jobs with equitable and of Goal 11 – Sustainable Cities and Communities. utilizes and protects the site’s natural beauty and affordable access to all. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Projects and Business Operations 59 In 2018, Dar also commenced work on a conceptual Also in 2018, Dar continued work on the ongoing master plan for the Ain Al-Soukhna Special Madinah Hajj City project, a huge development Economic Zone in Egypt. The concept master plan project set on a 1.6 million m2 site, located 3 km aims to create a sustainable and smart community southwest of the Holy Prophet’s Mosque in Madinah. set in a 75 km2 industrial and logistics city and a The project is expected to accommodate 120,000 20 km2 residential city. The industrial and logistics pilgrims and to bolster employment opportunities by city will create employment opportunities by establishing office towers with an ultimate capacity hosting light and medium industries, logistics and of 31,000 employees. warehousing facilities, a digital hub, technology park, retail centers, research and development centers, The city – which Dar has master planned, designed, and labour accommodation. This development and supervised – contains all the requirements for will provide affordable housing and encourage a sustainable community: these include a 360-bed sustainable initiatives using renewable energy, hospital complex; extensive and efficient public energy conservation, and recycling. It is also transportation options including elevated light projected to generate and facilitate over 400,000 transit and bus stations with a peak capacity of jobs and provide Egyptian and foreign investors 84,000 people/hour; a commercial mall and a wealth with top-class infrastructure, market access, and of entertainment, catering, and retail options; and streamlined administrative processes. cultural necessities including two mosques. With such projects and others, Dar continues to At the same time, Dar began preparing a concept use its expertise and experience to create more master plan and recommendations for the sustainable cities and communities. 440 km2 Wa’ad Al Shamaal Industrial City. Set in Saudi Arabia, the city is designed to comprise all the components of industry with major focus given to the establishment of support industries and end products industries. This project will help develop the urban economy, localise technology, and exploit natural resources that yield benefit to the nation’s economy. Goal 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities According to the United Nations Development society covering environment, vulnerable groups, Programme (UNDP), Goal 11 Sustainable Cities and economy. As part of capacity building training and Communities aims at making cities more for the Ibadan city master plan and the Epe master sustainable by creating career and business plan, both in Nigeria, the SDGs were introduced to opportunities, providing safe and affordable client teams during workshops as frameworks for housing, building resilient societies and economies, the development of sustainable societies. Workshop investing in public transport, creating green activities included encouraging participants to public spaces, and improving urban planning and use the SDGs to develop objectives, targets, and management in participatory and inclusive ways. indicators relating to their specific project locations. Dar has incorporated each of these objectives in The strength of these master plans in the areas numerous, large-scale projects. of stakeholder engagement and preservation of cultural heritage and archaeology can be attributed Dar’s award-winning master plan for Nigeria’s Ibadan in part to the SDGs. The capacity building itself is city, for one, is a prime example of what happens recognised as contributing to ‘peace, justice, and when a committed company applies the detail and strong institutions’ (SDG 16). Moreover, reviewing spirit of the SDGs during project development. The the development of the master plan against the Dar team used the SDGs as a framework to guide framework of the SDG objectives, both the client the development of the objectives and indicators and Dar’s urban design team could be confident that against which the evolving master plan could be a broad-ranging sustainability standard had been reviewed, in order to ensure a sustainable Ibadan employed as a benchmark. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Projects and Business Operations 61 Goal 15: Life on Land Dar’s contributions to Sustainable Development Goal 15: Life on Land primarily touch on targets 15.5 (Protect Biodiversity and Natural Habitats) and 15.9 (Integrate Ecosystem and Biodiversity in Governmental Planning). For the former, Dar offers extensive environmental services including environmental and social impact assessments, environmental and social management and action planning, construction environmental management, environmental effects monitoring, and a host of other services designed to empower clients to understand the impacts of their projects on surrounding environments and plan accordingly. Meanwhile, for target 15.9, Dar works with national governments and other high-level stakeholders to plan and develop environmental policies and environmental policy frameworks. With respect to integrating ecosystem and biodiversity in governmental planning, Dar contributed to the development of the Kuwait Fourth Master Plan 2040, by identifying and reviewing current and committed plans, project policies, decisions, and practices related to environmentally sensitive features and areas, coastal and marine areas, natural resources, biodiversity, and natural heritage. In Africa, Dar conducted a Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment (SESA) for the master plan preparation of a 51,000 ha sub-region within Lagos State in Nigeria. This sub-region is a rural area that contains forests, lakes, lagoons, creeks, and swamps that contribute to the area’s complex water systems. In 2018 and 2019, Dar also worked on numerous environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and policies. One of the most prominent is the Northern Elsewhere in Saudi Arabia, Dar is preparing an EIA effectively. A similar EIA is also being prepared for the 11 km2 Riyadh Region site assessment, which Dar was and an environmental management plan (EMP) for Taif Industrial City, one that takes into account the city’s external commissioned to complete by the Saudi Royal the 440 km2 Wa’ad Al Shamaal Industrial City. This impacts on its surrounding region and proposes recommendations Court. The site survey and assessment covered EMP aims to safeguard the city’s ecosystems and to deal with all types of waste. an area of 45 km2 and included topographic environment since it considers all relevant aspects and utility surveys and geotechnical surveys of environmental and sustainable development, Dar also provided a number of environmental impact assessments covering everything from soils to ground stability details shortand long-term measures required for projects ranging from sewage systems, roads, and infrastructure and underground water. Dar is also preparing a to avoid or mitigate potentially adverse impacts, to pipelines and upcoming tourist destinations. It is our hope Pre-Planning Environmental Assessment (PPEA) manages any residual impacts, and presents to continue to partner with clients who value environmental covering environmental attributes, land use, proposals for environmental quality monitoring in preservation and biodiversity protection. landscape and geomorphology, air quality and noise, order to assess the sufficiency of the mitigation surface and ground water hydrology, soils, flora and measures and any need for institutional reform and/ fauna, biodiversity, and habitats. or capacity building to ensure the EMP is executed » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Corporate Social Responsibility 63 Pursuing the SDGs Corporate Social Responsibility Since signing the United Nations Global Compact, Dar has continued to sponsor and support local policy dialogue, advocacy, and lobbying or through promoting relevant research and related projects. Adopting a section organizations that provide valuable services and seek of the Lebanon long-term solutions to community-based problems. Dar’s steps towards promoting SDG 16 began with Our diverse corporate social responsibility program the fundamental changes we introduced in our own Mountain Trail covers sectors such as education, healthcare, culture, group and specifically the “best-in-class” governance and the environment. This section will outline those structures we introduced to ensure proper checks In the last reporting period, Dar adopted Section Activity along this historic trail not only safeguards activities of ours that allow us to contribute to the and balances in decision-making processes. One 23 (Aitanit to Kawkaba Bou Arab) of the Lebanon and preserves Lebanon’s precious natural achievement of some of the targets of the Sustainable primary component of this commitment has been Mountain Trail (LMT). By doing so, the company resources, it also injects economic benefits into the Development Goals. the introduction of an effective Anti-Bribery and is supporting the work of the Lebanon Mountain remote local communities along the trail. As such, Corruption Policy with the right mechanisms to audit Trail Association, which aims to develop, maintain, by supporting this association, Dar is contributing and ensure that it is implemented consistently across and conserve the Lebanon Mountain Trail; protect to the achievement of Goal 15.1 – which calls for the Promoting SDG 16 Peace, all activities conducted by both Dar and the wider Dar Group organization. the natural, cultural, and architectural heritage and landmarks near the trail; and support local conservation, restoration, and sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems and their services – and Goal Justice, and Strong Dar is also raising awareness on SDG 16 by setting communities by enhancing economic opportunities 15.3 which calls for the conservation of mountain through promoting highly responsible ecotourism. ecosystems and the enhancement of their capacity Institutions in Lebanon an example and showing that a private sector group to provide benefits that are essential for sustainable with strong Lebanese and Arab roots can compete in Adopting Section 23 of the LMT includes clearing, development. This activity also contributes to Target the international markets on an equal footing with its cleaning, and blazing sections of the trail during 8.9 which calls on parties to devise and implement In 2018, Dar Chairman and CEO Mr. Talal Shair peers. It also aims to demonstrate that, through hard one year; conducting GIS mapping and cartography policies to promote sustainable tourism that creates joined the SDG Council of the UN Global Compact work and commitment, any company can implement services; installing directional signs and an jobs and promotes local culture and products and Network Lebanon (GCNL) and is currently serving stringent governance structures in management and information panel; raising awareness among the Target 11.4 (“Strengthen efforts to protect and as the Goal Leader for SDG 16 – Peace, Justice, and create a stronger institution. We hope to inspire a local community and authority about their local safeguard the world’s cultural and natural heritage”). Strong Institutions. The Council’s mandate is to use culture around this concept. trail and heritage through targeted activity; and its members’ private sector leadership to support conducting educational activities with one local and guide the GCNL in its efforts to make progress public school. towards the SDGs, whether through advancing » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Corporate Social Responsibility 65 Dar’s Sustainability Supporting students In another context, Dar also extends financial support to Myschoolpulse, a non-profit organization Movement and the through quality that provides children undergoing treatment for a life-threatening illness with the opportunity Green Apple Day of education to continue their education by offering tailored lessons adapted to their needs and covering private Service Dar offers significant financial support to tutorship fees. Their mission is to ensure that these scholarship programs at several of Lebanon’s most children do not miss one or two years of schooling Dar’s Sustainability Movement is an in-house prestigious universities including the American and that they do not feel excluded or left behind volunteer initiative operated by Dar professionals University of Beirut (AUB) and the Lebanese during their treatment. with the aim of spreading awareness on American University (LAU). Dar has also supported environmental issues and motivating students to the Masters in Road Safety Management program Furthermore, Dar sponsors a number of other lead greener lives and safeguard their surrounding at the Saint Joseph University (USJ) in Beirut since organizations dedicated to promoting literacy and environment. In 2018, 207 Dar volunteers from its inception; we do this by annually sponsoring education. These include: different design centers and offices worked on a students from across the MENA region to pursue -Teach a Child Lebanon, a non-profit organization that comprehensive awareness campaign in 19 schools. this course of study and learn about different provides access to education for underprivileged In honor of the international Green Apple Day of students across Lebanon by covering all the aspects of road safety. This support empowers expenses related to their education regardless of Service, these volunteers visited different schools students of limited financial means and enables their gender, religion, location, or performance; and conducted project activities and presentations them to pursue a high-quality university education. -Ana Aqra Association, an independent non-profit that tackle issues such as water conservation, organization which aims to advance literacy and responsible consumption, recycling, green building, Each year, Dar also hosts an average of 450 interns autonomous learning for underprivileged children in and numerous similar concepts. The activities from various universities and a wide range of majors Lebanese public schools; were engaging and instructive: converting old tires and specializations in its Amman, Pune, Beirut, -AMIDEAST Lebanon, which works to support into playground seats or flower beds, building a London, and Cairo offices. This opportunity allows Lebanese people pursuing higher education and recycling sortation station with reused materials, students to immerse themselves in a professional professional growth and to provide a range of planting trees, building a solar cooker from a pizza environment and take the first steps towards their professional training, educational, scholarship, and box, planting a green wall with old plastic bottles, careers. Dar Cairo also annually hosts architecture development programs; and collecting rainwater, cooling buildings with passive and engineering students from different universities -Ayadina Association, an NGO which addresses measures, and numerous others. Through such for an informative and educational tour of the Dar social problems related to children and youth by activities, students were able to learn that they premises as well as a workshop about future career providing opportunities for channeling emotions into creative expression, cultural and artistic can contribute to safeguarding the environment prospects. In 2019, Dar Amman also participated exposure, talent development, improved academic through simple measures in their everyday lives. in the first annual Engineering in Practical Life achievement, and economic empowerment. conference, which was hosted by Sirriyeh Housing In the 2018-2019 school season, the Sustainability & Construction at the Business Park in Amman. With these contributions, we are playing our part Movement visited 19 schools in Beirut, Amman, The conference targeted students from different in achieving Goal 4.4 and Goal 4.B which calls for Cairo, Pune, and Dubai. 1,347 students and 98 Jordanian universities as well as high school substantially expanding the number of scholarships staff members attended the different lectures students interested in the engineering field. The aim available in developing countries and specifically in and workshops, and over 7,800 students were was to allow students to explore the different tracks higher education. impacted. The Sustainability Movement also aimed available in engineering and sample the professional to bring its contributions to students from different opportunities they will have once they graduate. social and economic backgrounds; therefore, the volunteers visited both public and private schools and a number of orphanage-affiliated schools and SOS Children’s Villages. Dar’s Sustainability Movement contributes to Goal 11.4 and Goal 4.7 which states that all learners should acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles. » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Corporate Social Responsibility 67 Combatting drugs in Building a droughtFacilitating access to Lebanon free Maharashtra quality healthcare Dar provides ongoing financial support to Dar offers long-term support to a number of In a celebrated effort to improve quality of life in two prominent non-profit, non-governmental non-profit organizations dedicated to promoting one vulnerable community, engineers from Dar organizations dedicated to preventing and treating the accessibility of healthcare. For example, the Pune volunteered their time and specialized skills drug addiction in Lebanon: Oum el Nour and Skoun. company has implemented a system through to assist locals in Kolvihire, a small village in the These organizations are primarily concerned which employees can donate a certain percentage Pune district that was severely affected by drought. with rehabilitating drug addicts and running of their salaries to the St. Jude Children’s Cancer To tackle this issue, the volunteers studied the comprehensive drug prevention initiatives and Center in Lebanon. This center aims to provide situation and discovered that rainwater in the awareness programs. By doing so, Dar contributes access to free-of-charge treatment and excellent area was running-off without percolating into the to the achievement of Goal 3.5 which calls for psychosocial services to all children suffering from ground, and that watershed management planning strengthening the prevention and treatment of cancer in Lebanon and the region. was thus essential to increasing the ground water substance abuse, including narcotic drug abuse. level. The volunteers then constructed a contour Dar also annually sponsors all of the following trench on the sloping hillside in Kolvihire. This organizations: solution allows the rainwater running down the hills -Tamanna, a non-profit organization dedicated to to collect in the newly-constructed contour trench, granting the wishes of children with critical illnesses; increasing the ground water level and alleviating -the Friends of Multiple Sclerosis at AUBMC Fund, drought issues. which raises funds to assist patients with multiple sclerosis who cannot afford treatment; These activities were held with the guidance of -Heartbeat, an NGO that works to ensure that Paani Foundation, a non-profit, non-governmental children born with heart disease have access to organization that is active in the area of drought adequate medical treatment and covers all related prevention and watershed management in the costs; and state of Maharashtra, India. Through such efforts, -Himaya, a specialized NGO dedicated to protecting Dar is attempting to play its part in achieving Goal children from all forms of abuse and offering them 11.5 which aims at reducing the number of people the psychosocial and legal support they need. affected by water-related disasters and Goal 6.4 which calls for reducing the number of people Through these initiatives, we aim to contribute suffering from water scarcity. to Goal 3.8 (Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access to quality essential healthcare services, and access to safe, effective, quality, and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all). » back to table of contents Communication on Progress I Corporate Social Responsibility 69 Supporting the Afterwards, the results are publicized, and Dar hosts an in-house award ceremony to honor and celebrate Beirut Marathon those who registered exceptional performances. All of the 42 km marathon runners and the male and Association female top-5 runners in the 21 km and 8 km runs are awarded trophies and rewards for their monumental Dar is one of the long-term supporters of the Beirut achievements. Perks also include, for example, Marathon Association. gym memberships for an entire year for those who completed the marathon and commit to completing In this partnership, we are driven by a vested interest it again the next year. These efforts have created a in promoting active, healthy, and fulfilling lifestyles joyful competitive atmosphere among employees, among our employees. With this ideal in mind, one that, year after year, has encouraged more and Dar has launched several initiatives to encourage more people to sign up and live the experience. company-wide engagement with this physically strenuous enterprise. For one, the company has Besides athletics, the Beirut Marathon is an event undertaken to cover all registration fees not only for with incredible societal value and impact. It brings all participating employees but also for those of their together runners from different religious and political spouses and children who are willing to run. backgrounds to promote unity and peace. It also allows runners to donate their registration fees Our marathon committee launches preparation for to a charity or non-governmental organization of the marathon from the early stages of the year, and their choice. To maximize the social impact of our through the company’s intranet and email network, participation, Dar chooses one non-governmental we regularly communicate with all our employees, organization to support every year. In 2018, Dar encouraging them to sign up and to practice. ran for Kunhadi, to promote a responsible driving culture. In previous years, we have supported the On the day, our get-together tent provides a Children’s Cancer Center of Lebanon, Roads for Life, full-fledged support hub for the Dar community: the Lebanese Autism Society, and various others. providing care for runners and entertainment for We welcome the chance to support the efforts of kids and contributing to the festive atmosphere those seeking to improve our community on one of Tending to the needs with various surprises and activities after the race. the biggest public stages in Lebanon. of autistic individuals In 2019, Dar continued its sponsorship of the Dar also supports the OpenMinds Fund, which aims to Lebanese Autism Society, which advocates for the provide proper education, empowerment, and the best rights of individuals with autism. The LAS focuses medical care to children with special needs, empowering on early diagnosis and intervention emphasizing them to lead fulfilling lives and helping them integrate the development of highly structured, specialized at all levels and especially in schools, universities, and educational programs tailored to the individual needs workplaces. of children with Autism Spectrum Disorder and other disabilities. It also promotes and supports the social Through these partnerships, Dar hopes to contribute integration of autistic children and teenagers and to Goal 4.A, especially as it relates to providing works on building the capacities of the professionals inclusive and effective learning environments for and institutions providing them with services. children with disabilities. » back to table of contents dar.com dar.com
