Reliable genetics and innovative technologies! Caucasus genetics ltd Nutsubidze str. 26a, Tbilisi, Georgia; Contact: +995 32 2 432664; +995 570 103 405; E-mail: info@caucasusgenetics.ge www.caucasusgenetics.ge STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE PRESIDENT OF CAUCASUS GENETICS LTD Dec 2019 Dear stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Caucasus Genetics ltd supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact with respect of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent is to advice this principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the global compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and daily operation of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations goals, Caucasus Genetics ltd will share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. We recognize that a key requirement for principles of Global Compact is the annual submission of a communication on progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountibi9lity and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the global compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Mrs. Tamar Qachashvili President Caucasus Genetics LTD COMPANY PROFILE Caucasus genetics ltd Nutsubidze str. 26a, Tbilisi, Georgia; Contact: +995 32 2 432664; +995 570 103 405; E-mail: info@caucasusgenetics.ge www.caucasusgenetics.ge Caucasus Genetics Company was established in 2006. The company unites agricultural, dairy, pig and livestock breeder experts as well as artificial insemination specialists in farm animals. Caucasus Genetics has launched its operations as a small company serving East and South Georgia but today it is the main provider in the sector of agriculture. Company offer its customers wide range of complimentary and primary equipment for animal husbandry, dairy and pig farming, milk and beef processing equipment’s etc. We have over 10 years of expertise and quality performance in the breed improvement as for dairy and beef cattle as well as for pigs in the country of Georgia. We also assist in areas of management, feed production, feeding rations, animal health and have available consultants to assist the farm owners or farmers in needed specific areas. We do not only sell the livestock Genetic materials, but we turn key the deal to different private, donor or governmental organizations. For the purpose of enriching our practice and experience we own breeding center equipped with modern laboratory, demonstration farm and training center in Georgia and we use both local and international high level agricultural and livestock experts. The Genetic Center of the Caucasus Genetics The opening of the Genetic Center, whose construction was supported by the Ministry of Agriculture of Georgia, has allowed a more efficient solution of the organizing, technical and scientific problems existing in Georgia and abroad associated to a selection program which aims to a better exploitation of the local breeds features. The primary objective of the breeding center is breeding of local breeds (Caucasus Brown, Megrelian Red and Georgia Mountainous cattle) as well as cryo-conservation of their semen in order to facilitate the artificial insemination. The Genetic Center area includes: A Admission barn or isolation barn (460. sq.m.). All bulls entering the genetic center stay in the isolation barn. Young bulls stay here 40 days before starting their performance test. B performance test barn (1600. sq.m.). The feeding tests, weight tests, type tests, reproduction ability tests are taken here. C – Bull semen handling and freezing laboratory. D – Training centre and organization offices. Caucasus genetics ltd Nutsubidze str. 26a, Tbilisi, Georgia; Contact: +995 32 2 432664; +995 570 103 405; E-mail: info@caucasusgenetics.ge www.caucasusgenetics.ge The company has the following goals: o High quality consultancy in dairy, agronomy, veterinary, livestock, dairy and beef Farming. o High quality knowledge transfer for all interested people in livestock farming. o Value all clients no matter how large or small. o To ensure our company is easy to contact at all times and all enquiries are treated as urgent and are dealt with as a matter of importance. o Make our product available to all Georgian livestock producers in the shortest possible time and ensure back up information promptly. o To never forget that the only reason our company is successful is because of our customers. o To price our products to ensure they are cost effective to our customers. o Always give all the information to clients that they request, and then let them make their own decision, let our products speak for themselves. L.T.D Caucasus Genetics is the largest importer, distributor and service provider of agricultural equipment; Farm equipment; Genetic materials and breeding animals in Georgia; Our company actively supports local communities with information on modern technologies worldwide in agricultural sector by regularly publishing newspapers. With aim to increase knowledge and improved livelihoods of the rural population our company intensively carries out training programs which helps local communities to acquire more personal assets and have more financial means at their disposal to satisfy basic needs in health and education. We are representing in Georgia worldwide leading companies in an agricultural sector such as: Mini Tube, Bayern Genetics, World Wide Sires, Fibosa, Hunland, Serap, Kerbl GmbH, Milkotronic, Urban, Polanes, ETKÜ, Shvedoff, Siloking, IFCN, Schaumann, AgriUni, etc Caucasus genetics ltd Nutsubidze str. 26a, Tbilisi, Georgia; Contact: +995 32 2 432664; +995 570 103 405; E-mail: info@caucasusgenetics.ge www.caucasusgenetics.ge HUMAN RIGHTS Caucasus Genetics ltd acknowledges respects and, through its business principles, commits to operating its business in a manner consistent with the principles contained in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Global Compact. Caucasus Genetics’ view on human rights reflects the company’s commitment to conduct its business in a manner consistent with these principles and to protect human rights within the company’s sphere of influence. In addition, the company’s core values enumerated below work to further develop its culture as one committed to ethical business practices and good corporate citizenship. Caucasus Genetics ltd acknowledges the human rights of its employees and endeavors to provide a safe and healthy working environment for all of its employees. Caucasus Genetics ltd supports the elimination of all forms of forced bonded or compulsory labor, the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative, if desired. Caucasus Genetics ltd is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate either directly or indirectly against employees or prospective employees on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual preference/orientation, citizenship, marital status, veteran status, national origin, age or disability, or against any other protection established by applicable law or regulation. Caucasus Genetics ltd is dedicated to creating a workplace that value and respects people from diverse backgrounds and enables its employees to do their best work. The company embraces the unique combination of talents, experiences and perspectives of each employee, making its success possible. LABOUR RIGHTS Every employee at Caucasus Genetics is informed about our internal policies and practices, and hence their rights. Corporate policies are reviewed and updated on a regular basis. Training on business ethics and conduct is regularly held in our offices to reinforce the procedures for reporting any potential violations. Caucasus genetics ltd Nutsubidze str. 26a, Tbilisi, Georgia; Contact: +995 32 2 432664; +995 570 103 405; E-mail: info@caucasusgenetics.ge www.caucasusgenetics.ge LABOUR Caucasus Genetic is committed to keeping its workforce engaged and motivated to be part of the Group. We value diversity at every level of our company and respect the rights of all of our employees. Our staff contains of 15 permanent staff members and 6 contracted persons and female representation is 35% in our overall workforce. Our staff members are able to communicate in Georgian, Russian, English languages. Recruiting and staffing decisions play a critical role in ensuring that we put the right people in the right roles and the right places. The top drivers in attracting and retention talents include a sense of ownership, training opportunities and career growth. Beyond this we have rooted the wellbeing of our people in our daily activities to assure safe workplaces and enhance a culture of good health. ENVIRONMENT Protection of environment is an important aspect of Caucasus Genetics business strategy. We are well aware that we are part of a broad social community, which enables us to operate successfully. As our operations affect people, the community and the natural environment, we strive to reduce our impact on the environment and provide for a clean and healthy living environment for the employees and to the company’s direct and indirect costumers. Through a holistic approach to environmental protection, we wish to foster a positive and responsible attitude to the environment among all employees. Operational tasks are conducted by Environmental Protection. Caucasus genetics ltd Nutsubidze str. 26a, Tbilisi, Georgia; Contact: +995 32 2 432664; +995 570 103 405; E-mail: info@caucasusgenetics.ge www.caucasusgenetics.ge Our environmental policy clearly defines our responsibility to the natural environment and commits us to: o Reduce emissions by using all the available technology; o Use energy sources rationally and reduce waste; o Increase environmental awareness of employees through education, training and raising their environmental consciousness; o Inform employees and the public about the present state and achievements related to the environment; o Consistently follow and consider the applicable legal provisions and also new legislation and guidelines in the pharmaceutical industry; ANTI-CORRUPTION Caucasus Genetics ltd is committed to operating with the utmost integrity to fortify its position as a market leader. Our policies and management systems emphasize anticorruption, anti-bribery and anti-trust behavior explicitly. At a minimum, Caucasus Genetics ltd acts in accordance with its statutory or regulatory requirements. We hold onto our core values of being accountable and responsible, which extend to our shared commitment to prevent fraud and misconduct Caucasus genetics ltd Nutsubidze str. 26a, Tbilisi, Georgia; Contact: +995 32 2 432664; +995 570 103 405; E-mail: info@caucasusgenetics.ge www.caucasusgenetics.ge MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Caucasus Genetics ltd has not been involved in any human rights violations, and has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human right. We have not been subjected to any investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines or other relevant events related to labor or health and safety prosecutions. We regularly review our employee benefits to ensure that we continue to offer fair conditions for our employees. Our company actively support education of local communities aimed at eliminating child labor and discrimination. We measure our electricity, water, diesel and other resource usage to identify where we can make environmental saving. Caucasus Genetics ltd was not involved in any cases or incidents s of or related to extortion, corruption or bribery. Caucasus genetics ltd Nutsubidze str. 26a, Tbilisi, Georgia; Contact: +995 32 2 432664; +995 570 103 405; E-mail: info@caucasusgenetics.ge www.caucasusgenetics.ge
