United Nations Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate Communication on Progress Keurig Dr Pepper has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2004. With this Communication on Progress, we reaffirm our commitment to the Global Compact and its principles. This update also serves as our commitment on progress for the CEO Water Mandate. To download our 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report, visit https://www.keurigdrpepper.com/content/keurig-brandsites/kdp/en/our-company/corporate-responsbility/reporting.html UNGC Principle Report Section HUMAN RIGHTS 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Keurig Dr Pepper: Our Unique Approach: Ethics internationally proclaimed human rights. and Compliance (page 4) 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in Supply Chain: Good from the Start (pages 17-20) human rights abuses. LABOR STANDARDS 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and Keurig Dr Pepper: Our Unique Approach: Ethics effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. and Compliance (page 4) 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of Supply Chain: Good from the Start (pages 17-20) forced and compulsory labor. GRI Index (view here) 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Our Corporate Responsibility Goals (page 6) environmental challenges. The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible (pages 8 Businesses should undertake initiative to promote greater 7-16) environmental responsibility. Stakeholder Engagement 2018 (view here) 9 Businesses should encourage the development and GRI Index (view here) diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Keurig Dr Pepper: Our Unique Approach: Ethics including extortion and bribery. and Compliance (page 4) Supply Chain: Good from the Start (page 17) CEO Water Mandate Report Section Commitment Area 1 Direct Operations The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible: Water Stewardship (pages 11-13) 2 Supply Chain and Watershed Supply Chain: Good from the Start (pages 17-20) Management 3 Collective Action The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible: Water Stewardship (pages 11-13) Supply Chain: Good from the Start (pages 17-20) Stakeholder Engagement 2018 (view here) 4 Public Policy Keurig Water Policy (view here) Stakeholder Engagement 2018 (view here) 5 Community Engagement Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors (pages 23-25) Stakeholder Engagement 2018 (view here) 6 Transparency The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible: Water Stewardship (pages 11-13) GRI Index (view here) Stakeholder Engagement 2018 (view here) Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Drink Well. Do Good. What’s Inside About This Report About This Report 1 This is the first corporate responsibility (CR) report for A Message from Our Chairman & CEO 2 Keurig Dr Pepper (KDP), formed Keurig Dr Pepper: by the 2018 merger of Keurig Green Our Unique Approach 3 Mountain and Dr Pepper Snapple Group. As separate companies, A Message from Keurig Green Mountain published Our Chief Sustainability Officer 5 annual reports detailing social and The Environment: environmental progress since 2005 Refreshingly Responsible 7 and Dr Pepper Snapple Group published reports since 2010. Supply Chain: Good from the Start 17 Unless otherwise noted, this report covers data and activities for calendar year 2018 from Health and Wellbeing: Keurig Dr Pepper’s wholly owned operations, Better Choices, Better Lives 21 which are located in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. The content covers the parts of our business over which we have operational Communities: Responsible control and does not include joint ventures, Citizens, Good Neighbors 23 franchised or outsourced operations, except where noted. Selected data and information on our global supply chain activities are also included. All data is as of December 31, 2018, unless otherwise indicated. We developed this report in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards Core option. To view our GRI Index, please visit: www.keurigdrpepper.com/CR. Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 1 A Message from Our Chairman and CEO The vision behind the creation of Keurig Dr Pepper, the first company to offer hot and cold beverages at scale in North America, was rooted in a bold new way of looking at the beverage business. We saw that consumers today have more choices than ever for what to drink and where to shop. They also have greater expectations for variety, quality and convenience, as well as for transparency and positive social and environmental impact. Our portfolio of beverage brands While our progress on previously circular material use, including has the ability to satisfy nearly every committed objectives remains on recyclability and recoverability; consumer need throughout the day, track, we’ve set ambitious new goals reducing our environmental footprint and our distribution capabilities allow to ensure we are making a positive in energy, water and waste; and us to deliver to virtually every point of impact every day. This includes building stronger communities. purchase throughout North America. expanding responsible sourcing practices across our supply chain; But we’re just getting started. As a new challenger in the industry, designing packaging to enhance We know we have additional we also wanted to focus outward opportunity to continue to examine on redefining how our business could our ambitions and commitments, be a catalyst for positive change while building new collaborative for our consumers, employees, partnerships to be a force for suppliers, partners, communities change within our industry. and the planet. That meant looking While our progress on holistically across our value chain – Together with our passionate from source to consumption – with important historical employees, suppliers and partners, an honest objective in assessing company objectives we are determined to create longwhere we’ve demonstrated good sustainability practices and where remains on track, we’ve term value for our stakeholders and a more resilient future for the world. we could do better. That also led to a set ambitious new goals prioritization of the initiatives where for the business to we can drive the most value as KDP. ensure we are leveraging our leadership to make a positive impact with Bob Gamgort Chairman & Chief Executive Officer every drink. Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 2 Keurig Dr Pepper: Our Unique Approach Our corporate responsibility commitments are aimed at ensuring our beverages make a positive impact with every drink. We are channeling the significant energy and resources of our organization to those opportunities where we believe we can have the greatest impact. In 2018, Keurig Dr Pepper – the hot and cold beverage brands includes partnerships across our business. first company to offer hot and cold Keurig®, Dr Pepper®, Green Mountain We also embrace this partnership beverages at scale in North America Coffee Roasters®, Canada Dry®, philosophy in advancing our – set a bold vision to provide a Snapple®, Bai®, CORE®, Mott’s® and corporate responsibility efforts, beverage for every need, available The Original Donut Shop®. Our robust as it scales our ability to do good. everywhere consumers shop. route-to-market operations and selling and distribution expertise enable us The merger made us more than just Keurig Dr Pepper holds leadership to reach consumers anytime and a bigger company. With our united positions in soft drinks, specialty anywhere they shop. In addition, we 25,000+ employees, expanded coffee and tea, water, juice and employ a passionate, high-performing operations, broadened community mixers, and markets the leading team working to seize opportunities presence and combined resources, single serve coffee brewing system for sustainable, long-term growth. we can be a greater force for in the U.S. Our broad portfolio of Unique to KDP is a focus on strategic making a positive impact worldwide. KDP By The Numbers 7th largest food and 25k employees 125+ owned, licensed, $11bn in net sales beverage company partner and in the U.S. allied brands Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 3 Corporate Governance Chief Sustainability Officer and Company. Each year, we require our Vice President, Corporate all employees to refresh their Our values, ethics and integrity Communications, Philanthropy & knowledge through training and are deeply embedded into how Community Relations, as well as certify they’ve read and understand we conduct ourselves and operate members of the broader Corporate the Code and other corporate our business. Our governance Affairs staff. They regularly policies and procedures. and management systems collaborate with a cross-functional maintain effective oversight of, and accountability for, the way team of employees across the Stakeholder Engagement organization, including from we operate. As a publicly traded such areas as procurement, supply We are mindful of how our actions company, KDP’s Board of Directors chain, research and development, affect farmers, suppliers, partners, is the ultimate decision-making body, quality, facilities, human resources customers, regulatory agencies, except on matters reserved for and legal, to drive execution and nongovernmental organizations stockholders. The Board participates measurement of CR strategy. (NGOs), industry peers, consumers, in the selection of executive leadership The Chief Sustainability Officer employees, investors and others. team (ELT) members, and advises convenes the Sustainability We engage stakeholders through them on important strategic and Governance Committee, comprised ongoing dialogue and collaboration business matters. The Board has of key functional ELT members, which and leverage their expertise, insights, adopted corporate governance monitors progress and approves influence and energy to elevate our principles as a framework. It reviews key CR initiatives. The full KDP ELT performance and find new solutions these principles on a regular basis ensures our program aligns with the to common goals. and modifies them as appropriate long-term objectives of the business. to comply with changing laws and KDP strives to inform our CR regulations. In addition to overall strategies and programs with fresh, business strategy, the Board oversees Ethics and Compliance external perspective through formal KDP’s corporate responsibility At the core of our ethics and and informal advisory engagements (CR) strategy and progress, receives compliance program is our Code of with industry and subject matter quarterly updates and approves Conduct (Code). The Code guides experts. These engagements occur long-term sustainability goals. everyone at Keurig Dr Pepper to at the staff and ELT level to ensure It also reviews potential stockholder make the right choices for our integration of new and innovative proposals and issues, as well business, partners, consumers and ideas at all levels of our organization. as legislative priorities and each other. It covers human rights, related activities. anti-competitive behavior, conflicts of interest, fair disclosure and Development of vision and strategy as other topics to help integrate legal well as the day-to-day management compliance and integrity into daily of KDP’s CR initiatives is led by our decisions. We train every employee Chief Corporate Affairs Officer, our on the Code when they join the Corporate Responsibility Governance Model Corporate CrossSustainability Executive KDP Board Affairs Team functional Governance Leadership Reviews Leads Leadership Committee Team progress development Team Monitors Maintains through of vision and Drives progress broad oversight quarterly strategy execution and monthly of programs updates and measurement and approves and progress approves of strategy key crosslong-term functional goal setting initiatives Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 4 A Message from Our Chief Sustainability Officer 2018 was a year of new beginnings at Keurig Dr Pepper. Now, as we continue to integrate our operations and capabilities, we are finding fresh ways to meet the needs of our stakeholders and communities while scaling our ability to do good. The work and commitments you’ll see in this report were informed by extensive input from stakeholders throughout our value chain. We arrived at a clear view of the areas We are where we believe we can make the setting an Applying that same biggest difference. Today, we are partnership mentality to affirming past commitments and immediate our external relationships, we will introducing new goals that will guide north star of circular pursue deeper engagement upstream our efforts and impact through 2025 with suppliers and downstream in the areas of packaging, natural packaging solutions with consumers to amplify our resource use and supply chain for our engineers and efforts and create positive sustainability, as well as supporting change locally and globally. our employees and communities. product development teams, and we are Our sustainability journey as KDP is Notably, plastic pollution in the just beginning. We are taking action environment is clearly an urgent prioritizing crossagainst our ambitions while scaling challenge. We are setting an industry collaborations our partnerships to do even more. immediate north star of circular packaging solutions for our engineers to help move those and product development teams, commitments beyond and we are prioritizing cross-industry independent ambitions collaborations to help move those commitments beyond independent to collective action. ambitions to collective action. Monique Oxender Change takes time and coordination Similarly, we can now achieve a new Chief Sustainability Officer across the value chain; we know this scale of change simply by leveraging from our extensive work to deliver our expanded reach as a larger a K-Cup® pod solution that is Company. Our employee base both recyclable and recycled. has multiplied and we are better together. Best practice sharing Across our business, we find strength across internal teams is unlocking in partnerships and will use that even greater resource efficiency principle to work with others in the opportunities and new ways to be net industry, communities and legislators positive for energy, water and waste. to accelerate and scale the actions that we need today. Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 5 Our Corporate Responsibility Goals Environment Refreshingly Responsible Packaging • Make all K-Cup® pods in the U.S. recyclable by 2020 • Convert to 100% recyclable or compostable packaging by 2025 • Use 30% post-consumer recycled content across our packaging portfolio by 2025 Waste • Send zero waste to landfill across our operations by 2025 Water • Partner with our highest water-risk operating communities to replenish 100% of water used for our beverages in those communities by 2025 • Improve our water use efficiency by 20% by 2025 Energy • Obtain 100% of electricity from renewable sources by 2025 Supply Chain Good from the Start • Responsibly source 100% of our coffee and brewers by 2020 • Significantly improve the lives of one million people in our supply chain by 2020 Health & Wellbeing Better Choices, Better Lives •  Partner with leading organizations to accelerate portfolio innovation and transparency for health and wellbeing Communities Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors •  Provide play opportunities to 13.5 million children and families by 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 6 The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible As we operate our business, we are committed to being good stewards of the environment by finding ways to help protect, restore and replenish the earth’s valuable assets. Packaging We also want to further contribute to the circular economy and commit to using 30% recycled material Our Goals across our portfolio by 2025, which means a reduction in new plastic • Make all K-Cup® pods in use and reduced carbon emissions. the U.S. recyclable by 2020 • Convert to 100% recyclable We continually evaluate new or compostable packaging packaging designs and concepts by 2025 using lifecycle assessment (LCA) tools to better understand their • Use 30% post-consumer environmental performance recycled content across our throughout their lifecycles. packaging portfolio by 2025 This ensures that as we design for sustainable packaging, we do not simply shift the environmental burden Sustainable packaging is a top to other areas of the In 2018, we achieved priority for KDP, and we continue to value chain. our commitment to innovate for circular solutions across make 100% of K-Cup® our portfolio. Our packaging material pods in Canada recyclable deserves a second life, so we’re and are on track to do the making 100% of our packaging same in the U.S. by 2020. recyclable or compostable by 2025. The Whole Package Matters We are ensuring that our packaging materials are optimally designed to be the highest value possible for recycled plastic buyers, which will increasingly include KDP. We are replacing dark-colored plastics, making our bottle labels and caps compatible with bottle recycling processes and pursuing consumer education campaigns on how to ‘recycle right’, with an aim to reduce contamination in the recycling stream. The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 7 Our Sustainable Packaging Priorities We focus our packaging work in three areas: design, recovery and use of recycled materials. Design: We continually innovate our packaging designs and processes to reduce our total material usage, including incorporating materials that are both widely accepted curbside for recycling and are highly valued within the recycling ecosystem. We adhere to the Association of Plastic Recyclers (APR) guidelines to ensure our packaging is optimally designed to be recovered by recyclers. Beyond recycling, we are exploring material innovation such as bioplastics, compostable materials and reuse concepts. Recovery: In a circular economy, brewers and we are actively As a Principal Member of the products must be both recyclable identifying opportunities to transition World Wildlife Fund’s (WWF) new and recycled. We partner with items that support our manufacturing ReSource: Plastic activation hub, material recovery facilities (MRFs), and distribution sites – like pallets we have come together with peers plastic recycling facilities (PRFs), and trays – to recycled materials1. from the beverage, food services, processors and communities to consumer goods and packaging confirm our packaging has value Partners are Part industries to help turn our and can easily travel from recycling ambitious commitments into bins to recovery facilities and then of the Solution real, measurable action. a useful second life. Our industryImproving packaging solutions leading work on recyclable K-Cup® for product quality, consumer use, Keurig Dr Pepper was an initial pods, which has benefited plastics recoverability and reuse requires investor in the $100 million Closed recycling widely and set a new collaboration of all players along the Loop Fund, which provides zerobar for producer responsibility, value chain. Using our strength in or low-interest loans to public and is a model for how we’ll approach forming partnerships, we collaborate private entities to expand and our work across our portfolio. closely with a number of industry enhance recycling infrastructure groups, NGOs, investment firms and and sustainable manufacturing Recycled materials: Expanding communities. technologies. We have committed our use of post-consumer recycled $10 million over 10 years to advance (PCR) materials is a critical The Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s the circular economy, and our element of being a responsible mission is to accelerate the transition investment to date has supported product steward and contributes to a circular economy. We joined the such progress as 350,000 recycling to a circular economy by closing Foundation’s Circular Economy 100 carts distributed to communities the loop for valuable materials. (CE100) network in 2016 and have across the U.S. and over 850,000 Across all packaging materials, signed its “New Plastics Economy tonnes of waste kept out of landfills. we are working to reach 30% PCR Global Commitment” this year to by 2025. We are also beginning to join others in building a circular use recycled plastic in our Keurig® economy for plastic. 1 The scope of our 30% PCR goal pertains to all primary and secondary packaging materials, such as K-Cup® pods. Progress on the inclusion of PCR to hard goods like coffee brewers and items supporting the business will be reported separately. The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 8 recyclables collected at the curb in We are also members of the communities in California, Oregon How2Recycle standardized and Washington, working with labeling system, which Our work with state and municipal leadership communicates recycling The Recycling to develop tactics and tools locally instructions clearly on packaging. Partnership has to encourage residents to recycle By providing simple, consistent helped to collect over more and recycle better. guidance on how to recycle, we avoid confusion and empower our 180m Through our multi-dimensional consumers to take active steps pounds partnership with Keep America to easily recycle our products. of recyclables. Beautiful (KAB), KDP has invested All of our recyclable K-Cup® pods in educating and encouraging will use the How2Recycle label people to recycle. Since 2011, we’ve as we expand availability in the partnered with KAB to place more U.S. in 2019 – joining Since 2016, we have invested more than 5,200 recycling bins in public the growing number than $1 million in The Recycling spaces, such as parks, athletic fields, of products and Partnership (TRP), which leverages beaches and walking trails across packages utilizing seed grants and partnerships 44 states. Together, we’ve helped this standardized to raise money to improve and collect 1.8 million pounds of approach to increase recycling in communities recyclables and prevented nearly improve recycling across the U.S. With our support, 3,000 metric tonnes of carbon dioxidebehaviors. TRP placed more than 490,000 equivalent (MtCO2e) emissions. In recycling carts in over 640 local 2019, KDP-sponsored recycling bins communities as of the end of will become a key feature in our Let’s 2018, leading to the collection Play playground builds across the U.S. of approximately 180 million pounds of recyclables. In 2019, we are seeking membership in the Ocean Conservancy’s Trash To tackle the contamination Free Seas Alliance and will benefit challenges on the West Coast, from their robust data and research we are supporting TRP’s West on marine debris to inform our Coast Contamination Initiative. investments in bins near waterways Our $600,000 investment will to eliminate litter flowing into help increase the quality of our seas. Grounds to Grow On® Our Grounds to Grow On® program offers workplaces an easy way to collect their brewed K-Cup® pods to be recycled. Participants are provided a bin to fill and we use UPS’ carbon neutral shipping option to transport the pods to g2 revolution®, an innovative recycling company. Our K-Cup® pod components are then recycled into new products — like aluminum cans and shipping pallets — and the coffee grounds Through our are composted locally. Through Grounds to this program, we have helped Grow On® program, keep a total of 450 tonnes of we have helped keep 450 material in circular use. tons of material in circular use. The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 9 Recycling Done Right pioneering a unique, award-winning testing methodology that utilizes radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology to track the pods as they travel through We are on track to make 100% of our K-Cup® pods in the recycling systems. U.S. recyclable by 2020. In Canada, we met this goal in 2018, and are now applying what we learned to our U.S. The tests provide 100% traceability, validating our roll-out of recyclable pods. pods can be recovered with existing equipment and reach buyers who see value in giving them a second life. Like all of our work, partnership and collaboration were To our knowledge, no other company has gone to such at the heart of making progress against this important lengths to confirm a product can be recycled. The results goal. We worked with recyclers, manufacturers, our of this testing and engagement with recyclers and own engineers, end-market reclaimers and industry communities have established a new model for producer experts – like the Association of Plastic Recyclers and responsibility and benefited a whole category of the Sustainable Packaging Coalition – to find just the recyclable plastic, shedding light on how best to recycle right materials and processes to make recyclable K-Cup® and recover polypropylene, a valuable material. pods a reality. After assessing what material would be both recyclable and recycled, we chose polypropylene (#5 plastic) for our K-Cup® pods. Our polypropylene pods enable us to deliver the same high quality, great tasting coffee experience consumers have always enjoyed from Keurig. #5 plastic is accepted curbside by the majority of communities across North America, and there is growing demand for #5 plastic as a reusable material in other products, such as automobile parts, children’s toys, storage bins and outdoor furniture. We’ve proven our pods can easily flow through existing recycling infrastructure. We have conducted more than 12 tests at scale in MRFs throughout North America, Waste Our coffee roasting and packaging plants have made significant • K-Cup® pods that fail our quality inspection are collected and sent progress to eliminate waste. for dismantling. Most of our For example: manufacturing plants extract the Our Goal coffee for composting and send • Green coffee often comes to our • Send zero waste to landfill the remaining material to energy plants in burlap bags, which get across our operations by 2025 recovery facilities. In Canada, our reused as other products, such Montreal, Quebec, facility is testing as insulated coolers and textiles. a pod dismantler that will enable • The coffee roasting process cleaner separation of materials produces chaff, or husks from for recycling and reuse. We strive to eliminate waste in coffee beans. We compost this all our manufacturing processes. material, returning key nutrients We prioritize reduction and reuse to the soil. opportunities, followed by recycling and composting, and finally energy recovery where required. As a combined Company, we reached an 86% waste diversion from landfill rate in 2018. The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 10 Our cold beverage plants also have Water Stewardship Good decisions about water resources programs to eliminate waste and happen at a local level and take into maximize the recovery of packaging account water availability and materials for recycling. For example: Our Goals community water needs. We have used the Ecolab Water Risk Monetizer • Our Williamson, New York, facility • Partner with our highest and the World Resources Institute’s works with local composters to water-risk operating Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas to process waste from our apple communities to replenish evaluate water risk in our operating juice and sauce production. 100% of water used for footprint and have identified six • In Mexico, we collaborate with our beverages in those operating communities with high a nonprofit environmental communities by 2025 water risk across Texas, California association, ECOCE, A.C., for • Improve our water use and Mexico.2 plastics recovery to close the efficiency by 20% by 2025 loop. Our manufacturing plants In these six at-risk communities, throughout the country work with by 2025, we commit to restoring ECOCE to recover post-industrial the same volume of water we use PET plastic for recycling. Currently in our local operations to make our 93% of our waste in Mexico is Water is a vital natural resource beverages through projects that recycled and reused. important to our business and, enhance watersheds, protect as a beverage company, we have habitats and conserve water. We regularly conduct waste a particular responsibility to be By balancing what we consume audits at all our beverage facilities good stewards of water use in our and what we replenish, we will across North America. As we operations and communities. We help provide access to more or integrate our processes and continue assess water use across our business higher quality water to benefit to build a zero-waste culture at KDP, to understand our water footprint the environment and the people we see valuable opportunities to share and identify opportunities related to who live and work in these areas. best practices across our operations. quality, conservation, replenishment and wastewater treatment in our We are also committed to improving manufacturing plants. our water use ratio (WUR) by 20% by 2025, moving from a 2017 baseline of 2.05 liters required to make one liter of product (L/L) to 1.64 L/L*. Our progress is underway with a WUR of 1.98 in 2018, down 3.4% versus 2017. Currently 93% of our material redirected from landfill in Mexico is recycled and reused. 2 The risk assessment also considered the percentage of total production and site-specific conditions for each site. While the local conditions and issues vary, each of the six sites has high baseline water stress. * Upon the issuance of this report in July 2019, Keurig Dr Pepper included an incorrect target water use ratio of 1.7 L/L in 2025. It was corrected by the Company in August 2019. The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 11 Partnering for Balance We partner to positively impact water quality and availability in several ways. We work with The Nature Conservancy and other partners to identify and understand the watersheds in the areas where we operate, collaborating to invest in targeted solutions. Since 2011, we have committed $4.5 million to The Nature Conservancy’s local chapters in Vermont, Washington, Texas and California, where we have production facilities. As a result of this collaboration and other active projects over the last five years, we have restored 5,390 million liters of water in those communities. In Houston, Texas, our investments contributed to a native prairie restoration project to protect freshwater ecosystems and preserve coastal habitats. Restoring native grasses decreased runoff and enabled the land to absorb and disperse water from storm surges and Prairie restoration project floods, providing a cost-effective way to protect coastal Houston, Texas communities from the impacts of storms and hurricanes. Water-Efficient • Ingredient water preparation: Manufacturing Operations Where we use reverse osmosis to pretreat water that goes into While coffee processing is relatively our beverages, we are optimizing dry, all of our cold beverage these operations to reduce manufacturing processes require waste water from this process. water to ensure cleanliness and quality. We track our water usage • Product quality: We continually and partner with the beverage work to reduce product rejected industry as members of the Beverage for quality reasons, which will Industry Environmental Roundtable avoid wasting water. to leverage best practices in site water management and stewardship. We strive for operational efficiency in these areas: Operational Water Data ML in 2018 • Equipment cleaning: We use water Year (million liters) to clean manufacturing equipment, both for sanitation and to maintain Total Withdrawal 13,070 flavor integrity when changing Total Consumption 7,497 from one drink flavor to another. We optimize our manufacturing Total Discharge 5,573 schedules to reduce flavor % Withdrawal Municipal 75% changeovers, which saves water % Withdrawal Groundwater 25% while meeting food safety requirements. % Discharge to Municipal 66% % Discharge to Waterbody 34% % Discharge Other (to septic) <1% 3rd party data verification in progress. The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 12 Our Water Footprint Focusing on the top two of these We manage these risks through our commodity ingredients, we analyzed Supplier Code of Conduct, productTaking a full value chain view, the water risk across quantity, quality specific standards, and investment we completed a water footprint and climatic trends. and engagement with our supply assessment to understand the chain. Our Supplier Code of Conduct different causes and magnitude • For coffee, shifting rainfall patterns specifically denotes water use of our water impacts. KDP’s water and higher temperatures with optimization, management and footprint, using a 2017 baseline, climate change are affecting the tracking as expectations of suppliers, indicates that our direct water use suitability of some coffeelands for while our supply chain investments (7 billion liters) is less than half of one production. Additional challenges focus, in part, on water security and percent of our total water footprint in the majority of our coffeeclimate resiliency. In our coffee supply (2,084 billion liters*) across our supply sourcing regions include access chain, we address these linked issues chain. The largest portion of the to safe drinking water, flooding through funding research on climate enterprise water footprint comes and water pollution from green adaptation for farmers and plants, from indirect water use consumed coffee processing. and investing in initiatives that in growing agricultural raw materials. • For U.S.-grown corn, there are provide improved drinking water and Within this portion of our water three key water risks: water management in coffeelands. footprint, 98% of the green water footprint and 92% of the blue water –– Baseline water stress: 35% of footprint is attributed to six key raw U.S. corn is grown where the materials: coffee, high fructose corn underlying water resource is syrup (HFCS), apple juice concentrate, already stressed from scarcity/ sugar, cocoa and apples. overuse or pollution; –– Water quality: unregulated fertilizer usage and resulting runoff can degrade both surface and ground water quality3; and –– Climate change: increasing frequency and severity of droughts and precipitation events can damage corn crops.4 Our Water Footprint** Green Blue Raw materials 97% 91% Processing 0% 2% Green Water Blue Water Packaging 3% 1% 1,805 279 Energy 0% 5% Use/Consumption 0% 1% billion liters billion liters Green Water Footprint = Blue Water Footprint = volume of volume of rainwater consumed surface or groundwater consumed (e.g., for growing crops) (e.g., irrigation water for crops, or process water in operations) * Upon the issuance of this report in July 2019, this value was incorrectly noted as 2,077 billion liters. It was corrected by the Company in August 2019. ** Upon the issuance of this report in July 2019, the Green Water and Blue Water values were incorrectly noted as 2,077 billion liters and 7 billion liters, respectively. They were corrected by the Company in August 2019. The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 13 Energy and Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions, 2018 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent % of total % of Scope 1 Our Goal Scope 1: 273,576 68% • Obtain 100% of electricity used in operations from Stationary 116,495 29% 43% renewable sources by 2025 Mobile 157,081 39% 57% Scope 2* (Indirect emissions, 137,560 32% purchased energy) Scope 1 and Scope 2 Total 411,136 100% We are focused on reducing our energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) Scope 3 (Indirect emissions, value chain) 6,428,206 100% emissions to lessen our environmental 3rd party data verification completed by Lloyds Register impact. Our GHG emissions are Quality Assurance, Inc. (LRQA) with limited assurance. *Market-based primarily indirect (Scope 3), with packaging production being a significant driver. Our direct Before the merger, Keurig Green We have joined the Science Based emissions (Scope 1) come from Mountain met its 2020 GHG Targets Initiative (SBTi) to develop our operations and logistics within reduction goal of 25% in 2016. a more comprehensive emissions our control. We strive to lessen our As KDP, we will continue on this reduction target that will cover overall impact by choosing responsible progressive path. We have set a goal emissions from our entire value materials for our products, operating to obtain 100% of electricity used in chain in the near future.3 our manufacturing plants efficiently operations from renewable sources and reducing fossil fuel use in our by 2025, but we’re not stopping there. operations and fleet. Our GHG Footprint Our GHG footprint outlines the emissions impacts of our full value chain. This encompasses emissions from operational fuel use (Scope 1); electricity consumption (Scope 2); and supply chain, product use and disposal (Scope 3). The data for our 2018 footprint includes fuel usage and utilities data from our operations, supplier data where available (for example, for third-party 2018 Total: 6.84 million metric tonnes of logistics), modeling and industry estimates. carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions (tCO2e) % of Total Scope 1 emissions Scope 1 + 2 emissions Operations Fuel Use 4% 6% Scope 2 emissions Electricity 2% Scope 3 emissions Packaging 43% Product Materials 13% Scope 3 94% Supplier Operations and Manufacturing 9% Logistics 8% Retail 12% Product use 6% End of life 2% 3 What is a Science Based Target? The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 14 Renewable Energy Reduction and Efficiency To meet our new goal to obtain 100% In our manufacturing facilities, we of our electricity for our operations pursue efficiency by implementing from renewable sources by 2025, we lighting upgrades, using low-energy will build on our historical renewables idling mode on equipment, scheduling investments. Keurig Green Mountain production efficiently, conducting purchased renewable energy leak audits and other techniques. certificates (RECs) commensurate In our coffee plants, efforts to with its electricity consumption improve roasting efficiency through and Dr Pepper Snapple secured monitoring and operating procedures renewables for its LEED certified yielded a 6% reduction in energy Victorville facility and Plano (therms) per pound of coffee roasted headquarters. We have reduced in 2018. the impact of our energy use by purchasing renewable electricity Energy efficiency is an important for our coffee manufacturing consideration when we upgrade facilities through approximately facilities and build new ones. In 85% wind and 15% solar electricity. our plant under construction in As the opportunities for corporate Spartanburg, South Carolina, for renewables investment evolve, example, we are incorporating we will seek to have impact with our packaging line technologies to purchases, while continually focusing increase energy efficiency and energy on efficiency in our own operations. sub-metering to support continual performance improvement. In that Our hot beverage facility, we will use catalytic oxidizer operations use 100% pollution controls in our coffee roasting to reduce our reliance on fossil fuels, while still meeting pollution control requirements. renewable energy. Energy Benefits of Sustainable Products We use lifecycle assessment (LCA) tools to find ways to use fewer resources during material production and to inform design of our products. As an example, transitioning our K-Cup® pods from a #7 plastic with limited recyclability to fully recyclable #5 polypropylene will result in a 27% reduction in the K-Cup® pod’s packaging GHG emissions. In addition, we have introduced an Auto-Off feature as part of our Keurig® brewers, which automatically turns the brewer off after two hours of idle time, using 75% less energy. The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 15 Our Fleet Maintaining an efficient fleet is one way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in our operations. Keurig Dr Pepper’s fleet is comprised of more than 10,500 trucks, forklifts and pallet jacks used to transport our products to market safely and efficiently. These vehicles meet all U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) emissions standards. Beyond our own fleet, we leverage the EPA’s SmartWay program to maximize fuel and emissions savings in our third-party logistics. We continually look for ways to improve our fleet’s fuel use efficiency. We maintain a young fleet, replacing vehicles after approximately six years of use with more fuel-efficient models. In 2018, we replaced 60 heavy-duty trucks with medium-duty models to further improve our gas mileage. Driving Emissions Reductions Using Electric Forklifts In 2019, we are piloting a program to convert 35 forklifts from propane to electricity, which we anticipate will reduce our propane usage by 35,000 pounds and our carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions by 71 metric tonnes for the year. Based on the success we’ve seen so far, we’re working on a rollout plan to convert 200 more forklifts to electric power, which will deliver an anticipated 771 metric tonnes of carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions reduction. The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 16 Supply Chain: Good from the Start We are committed to ensuring we source our ingredients and materials responsibly. It takes thousands of suppliers Coffee Sourcing Responsibly providing a wide range of ingredients Beyond our Supplier Code of Conduct, and materials across several supply we are committed to sourcing our chains to create our high-quality Our Goals coffee responsibly, in part, by purchasing beverages and brewers. Keurig beans certified to sustainability Dr Pepper is one of the largest coffee • Responsibly source 100% standards, including Fair Trade™, purchasers globally and has a long of our coffee by 2020 Rainforest Alliance® and UTZ.4 Keurig history of meaningful engagement, • Significantly improve the lives Dr Pepper has purchased Fair Trade collaboration and positive impact of one million people in our coffee since 2000 and has been the with the people and organizations supply chain by 2020 largest buyer of Fair Trade coffee in at the very beginning of the coffee the world since 2010. In 2018, we supply chain. We are exploring how responsibly sourced 31% of our coffee, the model of responsible engagement and we have a clear path to achieve and impact we have long applied to We realize that the coffee industry 100% by the end of 2020 through coffee can apply to our expanded faces serious challenges. Climate certifications and other sustainable supply chain – including commodities change threatens the viability of sourcing programs. like aluminum, apples, corn and other sweeteners. We expect to coffee cultivation, and volatile prices set broader responsible sourcing affect profitability for farmers Keurig Dr Pepper has goals beyond our existing coffee in communities around the world been the largest buyer commitments in the future. that have long relied on income from coffee. of Fair Trade® coffee Importantly, we have developed in the world since 2010. a new Keurig Dr Pepper Supplier These challenges have the potential Code of Conduct that sets out to negatively impact the availability universal requirements applicable of high-quality coffee over the long to our suppliers. Our guidelines term and risk driving away the next look to ensure respectful and safe generation of farmers. That’s why we working conditions and responsible believe sourcing coffee ethically and environmental practices across responsibly goes beyond traceability our supply chain, among other or an audit checklist. Through requirements. Where necessary, engagement, action and partnerships, we go further by specifying we collaborate with farmers to product-specific standards such address challenges, helping them as independent raw material thrive in a changing world. certifications and manufacturing standards. We complement these policies with employee training on our Supplier Code of Conduct, as well as deeper research and supplier engagement on key 4 Rainforest Alliance and UTZ combined in labor and environmental risks. 2018, keeping the name Rainforest Alliance. Sourcing: Good from the Start Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 17 Engaging Farmers By promoting better farming We measure our impact on farmers’ techniques, we help farmers to lives using a monitoring and To better understand the issues increase their crop yields and income, evaluation system. For example, coffee farmers face, we immerse and diversify their crops for improved if a program is designed to improve ourselves within their communities, food security. a farmer’s yield, we ask our partners including getting to know the to provide us with data not only cooperatives that often support We also support projects that teach on how many farmers attended them. We are focused on deepening coffee farmers to be good water training, but also whether those our understanding of our farmers’ stewards, which can reduce the farmers adopted new practices specific needs and how we can help impact of climate change on their on their farms. improve their livelihoods so they can farms and in their communities. KDP stay on their farms and continue to has invested more than $5 million in To date, we have engaged more than reinvest in their crop. Blue Harvest over the last five years 630,000 farmers, workers, families to promote sustainable farming and community members in our Tangible Impact practices and increase access to supply chain, and we are on a path We actively address on-the-ground clean water for coffee farmers and to reach our goal of improving the issues in areas where we source our communities in Central America. lives of one million people by 2020. coffee. Our social impact investment This program has trained more than program has existed since 2003 and 2,800 farmers to apply water-smart has invested more than $60 million practices on their coffee farms, toward improving the livelihoods protected more than 40,000 hectares of coffee farmers. In 2018, we of critical watersheds and improved supported investment projects with drinking water for more than organizations in Colombia, Uganda, 100,000 people. Peru, Brazil, Honduras, Mexico and beyond, engaging farmers and their families on a range of issues. Visiting the Source to As KDP, we have expanded these opportunities, allowing selected employees in every function and level of the organization to participate in a trip. In 2018, more than Expand Our Knowledge 60 employees went on source trips to important coffeegrowing regions, including Mexico, Costa Rica, Peru, Colombia and Brazil. They met farmers and their families For 25 years, we have invited employees to travel to areas and learned first-hand, through workshops and hands-on of the world where we source our coffee to learn about the training, how much effort goes into sustainably sourcing hard work and dedication that goes into growing healthy our coffee. coffee trees and harvesting every bean. “One thing I took away from this trip is a better understanding of the impact our Company has had at origin,” said Pam Daskalakis, Vice President Business Cost Management, after an origin trip to Peru. “Over many years in Peru, our Company has trained coffee quality professionals, funded innovative organic fertilizer plants and supported numerous programs to promote diversification and sustainability to improve the lives of coffee farmers.” These experiences inspire our employees and educate them on the coffee value chain, while building relationships with our supply chain partners. They also underscore our commitment to ensuring our leaders and employees understand the challenges coffee farmers face and the unique impacts KDP has on those challenges. Sourcing: Good from the Start Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 18 Partnering for Meaningful Change Collaboration is critical in ensuring a strong and sustainable coffee industry, and we have longstanding partnerships to help us in that ambition, including: World Coffee Research World Coffee Research (WCR) is an industry-backed R&D organization focused on growing, protecting and enhancing coffee as a global crop. Its goal is to build We have farmers’ capabilities to adapt to invested more than $3m climate change and adapt coffee plants to deal with increasing environmental stresses. Keurig Green Root Capital Mountain was a founding member We have an enduring 20-year since World Coffee and now, as Keurig Dr Pepper, partnership with Root Capital, Research was formed we are one of the organization’s a nonprofit agricultural lender. in 2012. largest donors, having invested Root Capital provides smallholder more than $3 million since WCR enterprises with access to capital and was formed in 2012. expertise to develop independence, sustainability and competitiveness. Sustainable Coffee Challenge Since 2017, we invested more than We are a founding partner in the $1.3 million in Root Capital through Sustainable Coffee Challenge the Feed the Future Partnership for (SCC), a collaborative effort Sustainable Coffee, co-funded by the of companies, governments, We are forever grateful United States Agency for International nongovernmental organizations, Development (USAID). Through this research institutions and others to Keurig Dr Pepper. program, Root Capital has provided to make coffee the world’s first Having a leader in on-site training to 61 small producer sustainable agricultural product. More than 120 partners are working the coffee industry organizations to date serving more to align on a common vision for than 45,000 coffee farmers. recognize that a longsustainability in coffee and to term sustainable future SAFE Platform promote demand for sustainable The Sustainable Agriculture, Food coffee. KDP provides leadership for coffee depends on and Environment (SAFE) Platform via representation on their Advisory agricultural research is a multi-stakeholder alliance initiated Council and also via participation blazed a trail for the by the IDB-Lab to improve farmers’ in the Sourcing and Labor livelihoods through climate-smart working groups. rest of the coffee agricultural practices. We are a industry to follow. founding member and have co-funded Sustainable Food Lab The result is an amazing several projects, including one led by We are a member of the Oikocredit to train cooperatives in Sustainable Food Lab (SFL) and collaboration to create a Latin America to better manage risk hold a board seat on this nonprofit nonprofit, global coffee associated with coffee price volatility. organization that is helping to create sustainable mainstream research center that will With a mission to bring together food systems worldwide. Through the private and nonprofit sectors hopefully change the to improve business processes and our SFL membership, we engage future of coffee. include smallholder farmers in global with peer companies that source value chains, SAFE has sparked agricultural products on topics Tim Schilling such as measuring sustainability collaboration among key coffee Founder, performance and promoting industry players. World Coffee Research climate change resilience. Sourcing: Good from the Start Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 19 Appliances A Partner in Responsible Appliance Sourcing We are a member of the Responsible Our Goal Business Alliance (RBA), the world’s largest industry coalition focused • Responsibly source 100% on corporate social responsibility in of our brewers by 2020 global supply chains. RBA members commit to a common Code of Conduct, which is a set of social, environmental and ethical industry We offer a full range of coffee standards. brewers that fit any lifestyle or location, and each of our Keurig® We regularly assess our suppliers brewers has been engineered through against the RBA Code of Conduct continual innovation to deliver the using the RBA’s Validated most consistent, convenient and Assessment Program (VAP)5, great-tasting coffee experience. and invest in training for them and Our brewers are manufactured our employees to ensure their ongoing in China, Malaysia and Italy, using compliance. The suppliers we consider various materials and components in scope for our 2020 target are that come from all over the world. our Alliance and Strategic Appliances suppliers, according to the criteria We partner with suppliers to of our Supplier Performance source our appliances ethically and Management Program6. These responsibly, using primarily thirdinclude our most important appliance party audits to measure supplier finished goods, component, accessory compliance. Where needed, we and packaging suppliers. By working provide training and one-on-one closely with these suppliers on health support to elevate suppliers’ and safety, labor, environment, compliance levels. To address risk management systems and ethics, further upstream, we perform annual we considered 50% of our in-scope conflict minerals due diligence and suppliers to be responsibly detail these measures and results sourced at the end of 2018. on our website and in our SEC filings. 5 We require our suppliers that are considered high-risk to meet the RBA VAP Recognition Program Silver level. We require medium-risk suppliers to complete an RBA Self-Assessment Questionnaire with a passing score, and low-risk suppliers to sign off on our Responsible Sourcing Supplier Guidelines. In 2018, all suppliers were considered high-risk except for one that was considered low-risk. 6 The Supplier Performance Management program is KDP’s company-wide program to develop focused and impactful category strategies, manage and improve supplier performance and proactively assess and mitigate supplier risk. Sourcing: Good from the Start Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 20 Health and Wellbeing: Better Choices, Better Lives Our health and wellbeing commitment to consumers is simple: provide a balanced portfolio of beverage options and the resources consumers need to make informed choices for themselves and their families. To support parents in Our Commitment making the choices that are right for their families, we • Partner with leading joined the Children’s Food organizations to accelerate and Beverage Advertising portfolio innovation and Initiative (CFBAI) and will transparency for health pledge not to market and wellbeing products that do not meet its nutrition criteria directly to children under 12. We have a well-balanced portfolio, Our efforts are informed by the with approximately 300 of our World Health Organization’s ready-to-drink options containing Global Action Plan for Combating 100 calories or less. For most of Non-Communicable Diseases and our full calorie beverage varieties, demonstrate specific recommended we offer a zero, low or mid-calorie actions around clear labeling, option. In addition, we offer a wide responsible marketing and reduction range of serving size options across of added sugars. our portfolio, enabling consumers to enjoy their favorite beverages in just the amount they want. Expanding Our Water Portfolio In 2010, we became founding We continue to innovate and evolve members of the beverage industry’s our product offerings to meet our Clear on Calories initiative, which consumers’ changing needs. In 2018, added an easy-to-read calorie label we significantly expanded our owned to the front of every can, bottle and water portfolio through the pack we produce and included calorie acquisition of CORE® Hydration, a information on company-controlled premium, nutrient-enhanced bottled vending machines. We provide water, and CORE® Organic, fruitnutrition, ingredient and allergen infused functional water. In addition, information online through our we entered into a new long-term product facts website and will master distribution agreement in continue to enhance our transparency the U.S. with evian®, the global leader and communication to consumers in premium natural spring water. regarding our beverages. We also saw continued growth in our Bai® flavor-enhanced and antioxidant-infused water and in our Canada Dry® sparkling waters. Health and Wellbeing: Better Choices, Better Lives Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 21 More Choices decision points, such as coolers, in beverage calories per person shelves and registers, to encourage from 2014 through 2017 in packaged for Families our consumers to balance what beverages sold in places like grocery they drink with what they do. stores, convenience stores and large In the spring of 2018, store chains.7 we introduced Mott’s We take that commitment one Sensibles™ to bring step further through our Let’s Play Additionally, BCI puts a special focus initiative, which provides funding, on five communities where obesity families a product that equipment and play spaces for rates are well above the national is 100% juice, but with kids and families to make active average and there is less availability play a daily priority. Let’s Play and demand for beverages with 30% less sugar than programs are executed through less sugar or smaller portion sizes. regular apple juice. strong partnerships with national Our work, along with that of our In addition, Mott’s nonprofits, KaBOOM! and peers, encourages retailers and Good Sports. distributors in these communities to Sensibles™ has offer a greater variety of beverages, no added sugars, Helping People devote more display space to artificial Consume Less Sugar lowand no-calorie options and smaller portion sizes, and feature sweeteners, In 2015, we joined industry peers, information promoting balanced flavors or the American Beverage Association lifestyles. In 2017, each targeted and the Alliance for a Healthier colors. community showed calorie reduction Generation in establishing the ahead of the needed pace to meet Balance Calories Initiative (BCI). their goals and exceeded the national Through this voluntary effort, our Promoting Balance calorie reduction pace. goal is to reduce beverage calories Promoting healthy lifestyles depends consumed per person nationally We will continue to be active partners on encouraging consumers to balance by 20% by 2025. in BCI to help achieve our national what they consume with the energy goal and to drive further positive they expend. Along with our peers Recent data shows BCI is shifting change. We will also apply the lessons in the beverage industry, we provide consumer behavior toward a broader learned from this industry initiative retailers with “Think Balance” array of lower calorie beverage to our company-specific efforts. collateral to place at purchase choices, with a reported 6% reduction 7 2025 Beverage Calories Initiative: Report on 2017 Progress toward the National Calorie Goal. Underserved Kids Get New Opportunities to Play Richfield Public School Academy in Flint, Michigan, has more than 500 students in grades two through eight living in neighborhoods without structured outdoor play areas. In 2018, Keurig Dr Pepper partnered with the school and our nonprofit partners, Good Sports and KaBOOM! for a Let’s Play Day. This event brought nearly 170 volunteers from Keurig Dr Pepper and the community together to build a playground – installing a rock-climbing wall, zip lines and a merry-go-round, as well as new benches, planters, trash collection and recycling bins. In 2018, Let’s Play was one of three Volunteers also sorted through and packaged more finalists for “Best Community than $122,000 in sports equipment donated by Keurig Improvement Program” in the U.S. Dr Pepper that was provided to youth-focused organizations across Flint. Thanks to this work, more than 100,000 Chamber of Commerce Foundation’s 19th children in Flint are enjoying new opportunities to play. Annual Corporate Citizenship Awards. Health and Wellbeing: Better Choices, Better Lives Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 22 Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors We are committed to giving back and engaging our employees in enriching the communities where we live, work and play. Our Goal Citizenship Leadership • Provide play opportunities Keurig Dr Pepper was recognized as a 2019 Civic 50 honoree by Points to 13.5 million children and of Light, the world’s largest organization dedicated to volunteer service. families by 2020 The Civic 50 is a distinguished group of the most community-minded companies in the U.S., acknowledged for superior corporate citizenship and caring for their communities. For the prior six consecutive years, Dr Pepper Snapple Group was named to the list. Our investments in philanthropic We have strong relationships with we can drive the most value with initiatives make a positive difference nonprofit organizations that share our business resources and expertise. in the issues relevant to our our commitments, which we leverage As a unified Keurig Dr Pepper, we are business, support community to strengthen our impact. In 2018, evolving our corporate philanthropy efforts across our operations we donated more than $11 million in strategy to target signature and amplify our employees’ total cash grants and contributions programs and partners where we charitable interests. and contributed over $6 million in will be uniquely positioned to make beverage and brewer donations. a meaningful difference. In 2018, we concluded a few long-standing Philanthropy commitments and made progress in focus areas that will continue We recognize that we cannot move into the future. the needle on any individual social cause alone or overnight. That’s why Since 2011, through our Let’s Play we partner for the long term and initiative, Keurig Dr Pepper has invest in focused initiatives where committed $38.5 million in funding to increase access to active play opportunities for children and families, from building or improving playgrounds to providing youthIn 2018, we serving organizations new sports donated more than equipment. In 2018 alone, our Let’s $11m Play initiative awarded almost 270 grants totaling almost $3.5 million. in total cash grants. Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 23 We supported the Boys & Girls As part of being a good neighbor, Clubs of America’s (BGCA) Alumni we aim to ensure that, when disaster & Friends Club with a three-year, strikes, we are leveraging our people $1 million commitment that was and resources to help in recovery and fulfilled this past year. Our support rebuilding opportunities. This past was directed at the “Stay Connected” year, during the California wildfires, program, preparing recent high Hurricane Florence and gas explosions school graduates for college and in Massachusetts, we provided water, careers with online tools, tips and coffee, brewers and financial support resources, and connecting members to do our part in relief efforts. to a global network of alumni who provide guidance and mentorship. Community Relations Keurig Dr Pepper believes that being a good corporate citizen also means being a good neighbor. Outside of our corporate philanthropy programs, we support community needs through sponsorships and in-kind or monetary donations. Our community relations initiatives provide aid to families and communities in need and support causes in our hometowns. In 2018, our teams contributed to a wide range of organizations throughout North America, including Homes for Our Troops, Ronald McDonald House Charities, and many other deserving associations and causes. Our Brands Give Back Many of our brands also support cause-related marketing initiatives that align with their specific brand values and priorities. In 2018, Dr Pepper celebrated the 10th anniversary of its Tuition Giveaway Program during the College Football Conference Championship weekend, awarding $1 million in tuition to students who competed at halftime during five marquee games. Over the past 10 years, the program has awarded over $10 million to deserving students. Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 24 Charitable Employee This past year, our programs empowered our employees to put Engagement their commitment into action locally. Our more than 25,000 passionate In 2018, our employees contributed employees are a powerful force over 36,000 hours through companyfor good. In addition to monetary sponsored volunteerism programs, and product donations, we know supporting activities ranging from encouraging our employees to helping at a blood drive to stocking contribute their time through a local food pantry. In addition, volunteering supports our culture we amplified the generosity of of giving back. our employees by rewarding their volunteer service with supplemental grants. It’s OK to Play on the Job In 2018, our employees volunteered more than 2,800 hours as part of our Let’s Play initiative. In a survey sent to employees after the volunteer activity, 100% of respondents said that our Company’s support of their volunteer efforts made them proud to work for Keurig Dr Pepper. When asked about participating in a Let’s Play project, one employee said, “My favorite part was the sense of teamwork and a project bigger than us. Giving back is what it’s all about.” Day of Service with Keep America Beautiful Together with our partner Keep America Beautiful, more than 800 employees volunteered across five states to help complete 12 community park and garden projects in 2018. By supporting our partner’s vision of maintaining a country in which every community is a clean, green and beautiful place to live, KDP employees are able to help create a lasting legacy for our neighbors to return to year after year. Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 25 Employee Engagement Our annual employee engagement survey provides an important forum Providing a workplace for employees, managers and leaders to provide candid feedback about in which all of our what’s working and where we can employees can take pride improve. We then mobilize employeeis fundamental to our led teams to build action plans against these areas. Outside of this business success. We are regular cycle, we encourage open committed to creating and honest feedback throughout our organization and see every day a great place for our as an opportunity to implement employees to work, positive change in ourselves and which also helps us recruit to provide support to our peers to take action and grow together and retain top talent. as an organization. From programs that keep our The Value of Diversity employees safe to ensuring their and Inclusion voices are heard, we know investing We know companies are stronger We are evolving our unified in our employees creates a cycle of when they build an inclusive culture mission and strategy for KDP in engagement and improvement, as that gives voice to people with this important area and building well as a culture of openness and different backgrounds, experiences a plan to bring this vision to life. community. KDP’s “Speaking Up” and perspectives. We are committed policy provides a way for employees to fostering a diverse workplace in to anonymously report a breach or which we understand, respect and potential breach of the Code of leverage our individual differences, Conduct, laws or KDP policies, to the benefit of our employees without concern for retaliation. and our business. Full engagement Employees are provided with an address, telephone hotline Gender pay equality is a priority requires us to care and website to which they at KDP. The average base pay for about one another can report concerns. women slightly exceeds men at and provide prompt the levels of non-manager, senior As a company, we strive for a manager or manager and senior constructive feedback fully engaged workforce. We are committed to making continuous director or director, and is only that is translated into slightly lower at the levels of progress by regularly listening supervisor and vice president enthusiastic action to employees, taking action and measuring improvement. and above. and growth. Fernando Cortes Chief Supply Chain Officer Drink Big In July 2018, the merger of Keurig Green Mountain and Dr Pepper Snapple Group brought together two distinctive cultures representing 25,000+ employees in locations across North America and beyond. From day one, we encouraged a mindset focused on new, bold ambitions. By prioritizing initiatives including leadership conferences, quarterly town halls and new corporate branding and signage, we aimed to unite as one team focused on working with speed to deliver on not only our commitments, but also our ambitions. Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 26 Employee Health and Safety The systems used in our hot and cold beverage plants to manage safety KDP’s commitment to the health and programs in 2018 included injury/ safety of our employees is steadfast, illness databases, online safety and we want everyone invested and data sheet (SDS) systems, training accountable for making our systems and technology services to workplace as safe as possible. respond to work-related injuries and illnesses. We are now determining Beginning in 2018, we measured which systems are best suited for our our Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR), combined manufacturing network. which is a true indication of Total Recordable Injuries (TRI) severity.10 In 2019, we are working toward one Compared to the prior year, we health and safety standard in our reduced our LTIR by 56% to 0.17 corporate Environmental Health injuries per 100 employees and & Safety (EH&S) strategy. We are decreased our TRI rate by 5.5% focusing on areas of highest potential to 1.21 injuries per 100 employees, risk, including powered industrial across our beverage manufacturing truck standards, machine guarding facilities. These results were achieved standards and common procedures by focusing on reducing risk and for isolating hazardous energy. improving systems throughout our We are building improved health and operations. In our cold beverage safety capabilities through training, operations, we embedded the Risk teamwork and best practice sharing Reduction Number process into our throughout the organization. Lean Daily Management system to identify and eliminate risk at all levels of the organization. In our hot beverage plants, we implemented a Peer-to-Peer Safety Observation Safety Record process to drive out at-risk behavior 2018 2017 where the work happens. We will Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.17 0.39 reapply these best practices in 2019 for further progress. Workplace fatalities 0 0 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 1.21 1.28 Note: Rates are calculated as frequency of injuries per 100 employees We reduced LTIR by 56% in our beverage manufacturing facilities in 2018. 8 Prior to 2018, we used the Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) Days Away, Restricted or Transferred (DART) metric. LTIR is a subset of DART. Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 27 Keurig Dr Pepper welcomes questions about and feedback on our corporate responsibility work. Please contact our team at sustainability@kdrp.com www.keurigdrpepper.com/CR GRI Index 2018 The 2018 Keurig Dr Pepper Corporate Responsibility Report aligns with the GRI Standards framework set forth by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The table below includes GRI Standard disclosures and outlines which disclosures we have addressed in the Report (or other corporate reporting) and where they are located. The Report has been prepared in consultation with the GRI Standards: Core option. Disclosure and Name Response General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization Keurig Dr Pepper, Inc. (“KDP”) 102-2 Activities, brands, products, Keurig Dr Pepper: Our Unique Approach, page 3 and services 102-3 Location of headquarters Burlington, Massachusetts and Plano, Texas Keurig Dr Pepper will move its co-headquarters from Plano to Frisco, Texas in 2021. 102-4 Location of operations About This Report, page 1 102-5 Ownership and legal form Keurig Dr Pepper (NYSE: KDP) is a publicly traded North American beverage company formed by the 2018 merger of Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. and Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. Keurig Dr Pepper is the seventh-largest company in the U.S. food and beverage sector and third-largest beverage company in North America, with more than 125 owned, licensed and partner brands. 102-6 Markets served About This Report, page 1 102-7 Scale of the organization 2018 Annual Report, Financial Results; Part I, pages 1, 7 and 20; Part II, page 29 102-8 Information on employees and As of December 31, 2018, KDP had over 25,000 employees. In the U.S., there other workers are approximately 20,000 full-time employees; in Mexico, approximately 4,000 employees; and in Canada, approximately 1,500 employees. 102-9 Supply chain A Message from Our Chairman and CEO, page 2; Supply Chain: Good from the Start, page 17 102-10 Significant changes to the About This Report, page 1; Supply Chain: Good from the Start, page 17 organization and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or KDP supports the precautionary principle to guide its actions and approach routinely evaluates a wide range of risks and takes precautionary steps where warranted. 102-12 External initiatives Supply Chain: Good from the Start, Coffee, Engaging Farmers, page 18; Coffee, Partnering for Meaningful Change, page 19; Appliances, A Partner in Responsible Appliance Sourcing, page 20 The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Packaging, Partners are Part of the Solution, page 8; Water Stewardship, Partnering for Balance, page 12 Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors, page 23 GRI Index 2 Disclosure and Name Response 102-13 Membership of associations Supply Chain: Good from the Start, Coffee, Partnering for Meaningful Change, page 19; Appliances, A Partner in Responsible Appliance Sourcing, page 20 The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Packaging, Partners are Part of the Solution, page 8; Energy and Emissions, page 14 Health and Wellbeing: Better Choices, Better Lives, Helping People Consume Less Sugar, page 22 2018 Stakeholder Engagement Table (separate document) 102-14 Statement from senior A Message from Our Chairman and CEO, page 2; A Message from decision-maker our Chief Sustainability Officer, page 5 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Keurig Dr Pepper: Our Unique Approach, page 3; Ethics and Compliance, and norms of behavior page 4; Supply Chain: Good from the Start, page 17 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and KDP’s Speaking Up policy provides a way for employees to anonymously concerns about ethics report a breach or potential breach of the Corporate Code of Conduct, laws or KDP policies anonymously, if they choose, and without concern for retaliation. Employees are provided with an address, telephone hotline and website to which they can report concerns. 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance, page 4 Principles of Corporate Governance 102-20 Executive-level responsibility Corporate Governance, page 4 for economic, environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest Corporate Governance, page 4 governance body and its Principles of Corporate Governance committees 102-23 Chair of the highest Keurig Dr Pepper CEO Robert Gamgort is also the Chairman of the governance body Board of Directors. 102-26 Role of highest governance Corporate Governance, page 4 body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 102-29 Identifying and managing Corporate Governance, page 4 economic, environmental, After the merger of Keurig Green Mountain, Inc. and Dr Pepper Snapple and social impacts Group, Inc., both companies’ recent materiality assessments were consolidated to map the environmental, social and governance impacts of Keurig Dr Pepper. That assessment shaped the content of the 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report and informed the content of this GRI Index. 102-32 Highest governance body’s Corporate Governance, page 4 role in sustainability reporting 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 2018 Stakeholder Engagement Table (separate document) 102-41 Collective bargaining In the U.S., KDP has approximately 20,000 full-time employees and has agreements collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 4,500 full-time employees. These agreements address working conditions as well as wage rates and benefits. In Mexico, there are approximately 4,000 KDP employees, of which approximately 3,000 are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In Canada, there are approximately 1,500 KDP employees, of which approximately 500 are covered by collective bargaining agreements. 2018 Annual Report, Risk Factors, page 14 GRI Index 3 Disclosure and Name Response 102-42 Identifying and selecting Keurig Dr Pepper: Our Unique Approach, Stakeholder Engagement, page 3 stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Keurig Dr Pepper: Our Unique Approach, Stakeholder Engagement, page 3 engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Throughout report, as well as in About This Report, page 1 102-45 Entities included in the 2018 Annual Report, Financial Results; page 2; Part I, page 1 consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content About This Report, page 1 and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics KDP’s combined materiality assessment informed its determination of the content to include in the 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report and GRI Index. The content has been organized into sections on corporate governance, environment, supply chain, health and wellbeing and communities. 102-48 Restatements of information About This Report, page 1 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report, page 1 102-50 Reporting period About This Report, page 1 102-51 Date of most recent report About This Report, page 1 102-52 Reporting cycle KDP’s 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report is the first report as a merged company and reporting will continue on an annual basis going forward. 102-53 Contact point for questions KDP welcomes questions about and feedback on their corporate regarding the report responsibility work and invites anyone to contact them at sustainability@kdrp.com. 102-54 Claims of reporting in About This Report, page 1; GRI Index accordance with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 102-56 External assurance No external assurances were provided on this report. GRI Index 4 Disclosure and Name Response Material Disclosures GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material Supply Chain: Good from the Start, Coffee, Tangible Impact, page 18 topic and its Boundary The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Packaging, Partners are 103-2 The management approach Part of the Solution, page 8 and its components Health and Wellbeing: Better Choices, Better Lives, Underserved Kids Get 103-3 Evaluation of the management New Opportunities to Play, page 22 approach Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors, page 23 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value 2018 Annual Report, Financial Results generated and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and Weather, natural disasters, climate change legislation and the availability other risks and opportunities of water could affect KDP business. due to climate change Unseasonable or unusual weather, natural disasters or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of raw materials, energy and fuel, KDP’s ability to produce and demand for KDP products. Unusually cool weather during the summer months or unusually warm weather during the winter months may result in reduced demand for KDP products and have a negative effect on business and financial performance. There is growing political and scientific sentiment that increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are influencing global weather patterns (“global warming”). KDP is concerned about climate change, not just regarding the ways it could impact business. The supply and price of coffee KDP purchases can be affected by multiple factors in the producing countries, including weather, natural disasters, and crop disease (such as coffee rust). KDP is also faced with the impact of decreased or shifting agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as coffee and tea, which are important sources of ingredients for KDP products. 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and Supply Chain: Good from the Start, Coffee, Tangible Impact, page 18 services supported The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Packaging, Partners are Part of the Solution, page 8 Health and Wellbeing: Better Choices, Better Lives, Underserved Kids Get New Opportunities to Play, page 22 Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors, page 23 203-2 Significant indirect economic Supply Chain: Good from the Start, page 17 impacts Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors, page 23 205: Anti-Corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training Keurig Dr Pepper: Our Unique Approach, Ethics and Compliance, page 4 about anti-corruption policies and procedures GRI Index 5 Disclosure and Name Response 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for antiKeurig Dr Pepper: Our Unique Approach, Ethics and Compliance, page 4 competitive behavior, antiKDP had no actions to report in 2018. trust, and monopoly practices GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, page 7 topic and its Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or The principal raw materials used in KDP’s cold business include aluminum volume cans and ends, glass bottles, polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) bottles and caps, paperboard packaging, sweeteners, juice, fruit and water. Principal raw materials in KDP’s hot business include coffee beans and K-Cup® pod raw materials (including cups, filter paper and other ingredients) used in the manufacturing of K-Cup® pods. KDP purchases, roasts and sells high-quality whole bean Arabica coffee and related coffee products. 2018 Annual Report, Risk Factors, page 12 301-2 Recycled input materials used The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Packaging, Our Sustainable Packaging Priorities, page 8 KDP uses post-consumer recycled materials in the manufacturing of singleserve brewing systems. For carbonated soft drinks and non-carbonated beverages, the vast majority of KDP’s beverage containers are 100% recyclable. For Coffee Systems products, KDP completed the conversion to recyclable K-Cup® pods in Canada at the end of 2018, targeting to have 100% of manufactured K-Cup® pods, in North America, recyclable by the end of 2020. KDP is looking beyond its own products and operations to address the issue of post-consumer recycling. They continue to work with industry, government and community partners on goals and efforts to increase recycling rates and improve recycling behaviors. They maintain active involvement, partnerships and investments in efforts to improve consumer recycling, including focused efforts with Keep America Beautiful, the Closed Loop Fund and The Recycling Partnership. They are also a Recycling Demand Champion via the Association of Plastic Recyclers, committed to increasing the amount of post-consumer recycled content in products that they purchase. 2018 Annual Report, Part I, page 8 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Energy and Emissions, page 14 the organization 302-2 Energy consumption outside The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Energy and Emissions, page 14 of the organization GRI Index 6 Disclosure and Name Response 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303-1 Water withdrawal by source The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Water Stewardship, page 11 303-2 Water sources significantly The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Water Stewardship, page 11 affected by withdrawal of water 304-3 Habitats protected or restored The Environment: Refreshingly, Responsible, Water Stewardship, Partnering for Balance, page 12 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Energy and Emissions, Our GHG Footprint, page 14 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Energy and Emissions, emissions Our GHG Footprint, page 14 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Energy and Emissions, emissions Our GHG Footprint, page 14 306-2 Waste by type and disposal The Environment: Refreshingly Responsible, Packaging, page 7 method In 2018, KDP measured its solid waste according to disposal method – that is, whether it was recycled, reused or sent to the landfill. This data was tracked across both hot and cold beverage production. Short Percentage of waste Combined solid waste tons of waste diverted from landfill Recycled/Reused 62,567.62 86% Landfill 9,980.06 Total 72,547.68 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with In the normal course of business, KDP is subject to a variety of federal, environmental laws and state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. regulations KDP maintains environmental, health and safety policies and a quality, environmental, health and safety program designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The cost of such compliance measures does not have a material financial impact on KDP operations. 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that Keurig suppliers are held to specific standards, which have been outlined were screened using in the Keurig Dr Pepper Supplier Code of Conduct. environmental criteria GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material Health and Wellbeing: Better Choices, Better Lives, page 21 topic and its Boundary Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors, page 23 103-2 The management approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI Index 7 Disclosure and Name Response 401: Employment 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time Non-union employees, who are scheduled to normally work 30 or more hours employees that are not per week, are eligible for medical, dental and vision benefits, in addition to the provided to temporary or wellness, charitable giving/volunteering and employee assistance programs. part-time employees Union employee benefits are governed by their collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) and must therefore refer to their CBA to determine benefit eligibility. 2018 Annual Report, Employee Benefit Plans, page 93 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-1 Occupational health and Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors, Employee Engagement, safety management system Employee Health and Safety, page 27 404: Training and Education 2016 404-3 Percentage of employees As a newly merged company, KDP has been building a process that includes receiving regular performance all team members in goal setting and all non-union team members in and career development performance reviews. KDP believes everyone should see how their work reviews connects to the corporate priorities and have the opportunity for feedback and development. 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors, Employee Engagement, and employees The Value of Diversity and Inclusion, page 26 Just as each of KDP’s beverages brings its own flavor to their product portfolio, each KDP employee brings their own unique set of experiences, perspectives and backgrounds to the business. When action is taken at KDP, it is done without regard to sex, race, color, national origin, ancestry, religion, creed, age, marital status, gender, gender identity or expression, disability, medical condition, covered veteran or military status, sexual orientation, genetic information or any other status protected under federal, state or local law. Accordingly, unwelcome conduct based on any of these protected characteristics is forbidden. KDP is committed to diversity and equal opportunity and prohibits discrimination as well as unwelcome and discriminatory behavior. This includes conduct that creates an intimidating, offensive or hostile environment. This conduct can take many forms, including physical actions, spoken or written comments, and multimedia. Regardless of the form it takes, harassment negatively impacts individual work performance and the KDP workplace as a whole and will not be tolerated. KDP has a Respectful Workplace & Non-Harassment Policy that formally outlines this commitment to employees. 408:  Child Labor 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines expectations for the company’s at significant risk for suppliers with regard to child labor in their supply chain. All Direct or Tier 1 incidents of child labor Suppliers are asked annually to commit to following the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. The company enforces the Code through supplier audits and through purchases of certified/verified products. KDP uses a risk assessment process to prioritize audits and other supply chain engagements. More information is available on the Ethics and Compliance page of the KDP company website. GRI Index 8 Disclosure and Name Response 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 Operations and suppliers at KDP’s Supplier Code of Conduct outlines expectations for the company’s significant risk for incidents suppliers with regard to child labor in their supply chain. All Direct or Tier 1 of forced or compulsory labor Suppliers are asked annually to commit to following the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. The company enforces the Code through supplier audits and through purchases of certified/verified products. KDP uses a risk assessment process to prioritize audits and other supply chain engagements. More information is available on the Ethics and Compliance page of the KDP company website. 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 2016 411-1 Incidents of violations involving There were no reported incidents of violation involving rights of indigenous rights of indigenous peoples peoples in 2018. 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been KDP suppliers are held to specific standards, which have been outlined subject to human rights in the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. reviews or impact assessments All Direct or Tier 1 Suppliers are asked annually to commit to following the KDP Supplier Code. 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local Communities: Responsible Citizens, Good Neighbors, Community Relations, community engagement, page 24 impact assessments, and development programs 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were KDP suppliers are held to specific standards, which have been outlined screened using social criteria in the KDP Supplier Code of Conduct. 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions Company and political action committee (PAC) contributions and matters of public policy are managed by the KDP government affairs team. In certain states, KDP may make political contributions within specific limits and reporting requirements, such as through a state beverage association. However, the company does not make direct contributions or gifts of any kind, whether money, property, goods or services, to any political candidate, campaign committee or other organization in connection with any federal election. KDP also maintains a PAC to provide our employees a means to engage in the political process. The KDP PAC is funded through voluntary contributions by company employees which are maintained in a separate, segregated fund. 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 416-1 Assessment of the health and Health and Wellbeing: Better Choices, Better Lives, page 21 safety impacts of product and service categories GRI Index 9 Disclosure and Name Response 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and Health and Wellbeing: Better Choices, Better Lives, page 21 service information and Product facts about KDP beverage products are available publicly labeling at www.dpsgproductfacts.com. 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints In 2018, KDP received no substantiated complaints regarding breaches concerning breaches of of customer privacy and identified no losses of customer data. customer privacy and losses of customer data 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws In 2018, KDP had no issues of non-compliance with social or economic laws and regulations in the social or regulations. and economic area KDP is subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the countries in which they do business. Certain cities and municipalities within the U.S. have also passed various taxes on the distribution of sugarsweetened and diet beverages, which are at different stages of enactment. In Canada and Mexico, the manufacturing, distribution, marketing and sale of many of KDP’s products are also subject to similar statutes and regulations. Additionally, the government of Mexico enacted broad based tax reform in 2016, including a tax on every liter of certain sugar-sweetened beverages KDP manufactures. GRI Index 10 Stakeholder Engagement 2018 Stakeholder How We Engage Sample Initiatives and Outcomes in 2018 Employees • Intranet • Launched Workplace to 7,500 office/ Approximately 25,000 • Online collaboration tool: Workplace management employees, giving them a daily opportunity to connect, discuss • Weekly newsletters and executive and share best practices communications • Reduced Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) • Town Hall meetings in 2018 to 1.21, down from 1.28 in 2017, due • Employee engagement surveys to programs like Peer-to-Peer Observation* • Peer-to-Peer Observation program • 60 employees participated in source trips in five in manufacturing facilities countries; 700+ employees have participated over the lifetime of the source trip program • Source trips to coffee-growing communities *Rates are calculated as frequency of injuries per 100 employees Communities • Employee volunteering • Employees volunteered 34,000 hours in their We engage in over • Partner with national and communities through company programs 100 communities in community-based organizations • 800 employees, across five states, joined in which we have facilities • Philanthropy the Day of Service where we partnered with in North America Keep America Beautiful on community park • Community Relations and garden projects • Through our Park Recycling Bin Grant Program, facilitated by Keep America Beautiful, we funded 34 grants to provide recycling bins to local governments and community organizations • Our Let’s Play initiative – a partnership with national non-profits KaBoom! and Good Sports – provided more than 250 grants totaling approximately $3.5M to increase active play opportunities for children and families • Recognized as a Civic 50 honoree by Points of Light Managed Supplier Base • Supplier Summits • Hosted fifth annual Supplier Collaboration Approximately 1,000 • Outreach and communication about Summit with over 70 of our most valued and our Supplier Code of Conduct strategic suppliers • Supplier assessments and • Supported Blue Harvest to promote sustainable remediation process farming practices and increase access to clean water for coffee farmers and communities in • Social impact investment Central America • Invested in World Coffee Research to support the development of new coffee varieties, conducted on-farm trials and delivered new climate-smart technologies • Invested in Root Capital efforts to strengthen coffee farmer cooperatives by providing financial management training and financing to 61 producer organizations, serving 45,000 coffee farmers Consumers • Education and awareness programs • Transitioned to 100% recyclable K-Cup® pods, and customers on Corporate Responsibility issues two years early, in Canada. With the transition, • Integrated marketing efforts to we did extensive consumer engagement, directly encourage purchase of sustainable and through retail and community partners, products and sustainable product use to develop recycle right behaviors at home. • Promotion of Fair Trade coffee purchases resulted in being named the largest buyer of Fair Trade coffee in the world, for the ninth consecutive year Stakeholder Engagement 2 Stakeholder How We Engage Sample Initiatives and Outcomes in 2018 Non-profits and NGOs • Collaboration and dialogue with • Beyond supply chain and philanthropic non-profits and NGO organizations, relationships, we work with The Nature as appropriate, on our key material Conservancy to identify and understand the issues watersheds in the areas where we operate, collaborating on targeted solutions. Since 2011, we have committed $4.5 million to local chapters in Vermont, Washington, Texas and California and restored a total of 5,390 million liters of water in those communities Industry • Establish common industry • Continued work as a Founder of the Balanced Associations standards, positions and processes Calorie Initiative (BCI) to reduce beverage & membership • Work with partners, in other calories by 20% per person across the United organizations industries, in ways that are mutually States by 2025 alongside the American beneficial Beverage Association and the Alliance Collaborative platforms for a Healthier Generation Business partners • Collaborate with a variety of industry groups to tackle complex challenges • Collaborated with the Association of Plastic across the entire value chain Recyclers and the Sustainable Packaging Coalition to ensure our coffee pods are recyclable • Partner for mutual benefit and and recycled by consumers via standard positive impact in co-manufacturing, development, rigorous testing and accurate licensing and distribution agreements product labeling • Investment in and advisory of Closed Loop Fund and The Recycling Partnership to remove obstacles to recycling access and improve profitability of the recycling industry, resulting in 1M+ tons of recycling material collected Stakeholder Engagement 3
