UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 02 Contents Statement of Continuing Support Statement of Continuing Support 2 The Fung Group of companies (the “Group”) is pleased to publish its 2018 Highlights 3 Communication on Progress for 2018. This report outlines the steps that we Fung Group of Companies 4 have taken to promote the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Approaches to Sustainability 6 Principles within our Group companies, UNGC Ten Principles 9 as well as throughout our supply chains and among our stakeholders. Human Rights & Labor 15 Fung Group has always been committed Environment 22 to the principles of the Global Compact. We aim to operate sustainable Anti-corruption 27 businesses that provide useful goods and services, create decent jobs and contribute to the economic, UN Sustainable Development Goals 29 environmental and social wellbeing of the communities. Awards and Indices 33 We believe the Global Compact principles and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are useful frameworks for collective action and collaboration, and we are committed to doing our part to promote inclusive and sustainable growth. In laying out our actions and efforts to continue to improve our performance under the UNGC framework, we are pleased to share our experiences and invite others to join us in support. Left – A rooftop solar photovoltaic renewable energy system at Meiyume’s R&D facility located in Pathumthani province (Thailand). The facility was awarded LEED Platinum certification and electricity generated from the system provides up to 40% of the facility’s energy p.24. Middle Knitwear made with upcycled yarn from 22 Factor, a project of Cobalt Fashion Victor Fung P.25. Group Chairman, Fung Group Bottom Landing page of the WorkerApp, a mobile platform created by Li & Fung and the Fung Academy, to improve the lives of factory workers through technology and innovation P.21. 03 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 04 2018 Highlights Fung Group of Companies Fung Group is a multinational group headquartered in the second year of its Three-Year Plan (2017 – 2019) Hong Kong whose companies are engaged in supply with the goal of creating the Supply Chain of the Future Governance chain solutions, logistics, distribution and retailing of to help customers navigate the digital economy and to P.7 4 SDGs ESG governance consumer products. make life better for a billion people in the supply chain. Overall align corporate policy The Group’s trading and logistics operations are The Group’s distribution businesses are run by the 95% and prioritize action Governance bodies operated by the publicly-listed Li & Fung Limited publicly-listed Global Brands Group Holding Limited across the Group met attendance rate 1,100+ (Li & Fung). Li & Fung offers end-to-end supply chain (Global Brands), one of the world’s leading branded 10 times P.11 employees completed e-Learning solutions from product design and development, apparel, footwear and fashion accessories companies. training on Business Ethics raw material sourcing, factory selection, production Global Brands designs, develops, markets and sells management and quality control to customers. The products under a diverse array of owned and licensed P.28 company also provides in-country logistics, global brands and a wide range of product categories. In Environmental freight management and e-logistics services that span addition, Global Brands is the global leader in the Li & Fung Supply Chain the time the product leaves the factory to the time it brand management business through CAAGBG Global 21% reaches the hands of the consumer. 2018 represents Brand Management Group. drop in GHG emission intensity P.23 600 factories using Higg Facility Environmental Module for CRA performance assessment LI & FUNG LH PEGASUS GLOBAL BRANDS FUNG RETAILING LIMITED Owned with GROUP LIMTIED 5% P.26 SEHK 494 Hony Captial SEHK 787 Privately-held Entity drop in GHG emission intensity in Circle K and Saint Honore stores P.23 SUPPLY MEIYUME Social/Society CHAIN SOLUTIONS (Beauty) DISTRIBUTION RETAIL Employees Community Supply Chain 43,000+ 15,000 COBALT CONVENIENCE volunteer hours workers access to health 57% education on WorkerApp LOGISTICS FASHION (Sweaters) RETAIL ASIA LIMITED female staﬀ in 536 P.20 SEHK 831 overall workforce P.16 programs in 85 global locations 400 unannounced assessments LIVING STYLE across 15 countries on top of ONSHORE GROUP regular audits WHOLESALE (Furniture) Economic Promoting decent work for 7,800+ 2,144,510 factories from 6 key sourcing/manufacturing countries* : China, Vietnam, India, Bangladesh, workers in core factories located in Indonesia and Thailand less-developed markets supplying to Li & Fung * Factories operated directly and indirectly for the Fung Group of companies 05 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 06 Approaches to Sustainability The Group’s retailing operations include a publiclyFung Business Intelligence, which tracks, analyzes We believe we are an agent of change with the duty Though our strategies and targets may evolve, our listed entity, Convenience Retail Asia Limited (CRA), and interprets market data of China on sourcing, to positively contribute to the social, economic and commitment to good governance and the highest which operates convenience stores, bakeries and a supply chains, distribution, retail and technology to environmental wellbeing of the communities in which standards of ethical behavior, transparency and fast-fashion eyewear chain in Hong Kong, Macau and support the Group’s strategic development. we operate. These commitments are more important accountability remain constant. We have been a Southern China. The Group also has a number of today than ever, as companies are confronted with signatory to the United Nations Global Compact Li & Fung Foundation, which aims to make lives better privately-held retail businesses, including investments intense technological disruption and market change, (UNGC) since 2002 and remain committed to for a billion people along the supply chain and in the in Toys ‘R’ Us Asia, Trinity Limited, and Branded as well as growing calls to address inequality and integrating the UNGC framework into our operations, communities where employees live and work. Lifestyle Holdings. The Group also operates three environmental challenges across the world. our supply chain and our products. Since the launch Victor and William Fung Foundation, which promotes product verticals under LH Pegasus, a joint venture leadership development through scholarships and with Hony Capital, focusing on beauty products fellowships, as well as thought leadership with thinkunder Meiyume, sweaters under Cobalt Fashion and tanks and tertiary education institutions. furniture under Living Style Group. ab Privately, the Group also has a number of centrally In total, Fung Group employs approximately 39,900 Sustain le retailing people across 40 economies, with a total revenue of managed entitles which promote knowledge, learning, over US$20.64 billion as of December 2018. innovation and philanthropy for the Group. These include: s Low-emi While our commitment to uphold the UNGC Principles The Fung Academy, which focuses on building future ssio capabilities of Fung Group and its key stakeholders and our approach to sustainability applies to the whole Group, the performance data in this report focuses Social nl through talent acquisition, leadership development Human rights, ethical & primarily on the three publicly-listed entities of the og on ovati safe workplaces, and supply chain innovation. Group: Li & Fung Limited, Global Brands Group Holding empowerment & education ist Inn Explorium, located in Shanghai and Hong Kong which Limited and Convenience Retail Asia Limited. ic is an innovation hub with the purpose of learning, experimenting and scaling new ideas. Environmental Economic Resilience & climate action, Inclusive growth & low-emission & prosperity, readiness for circular economy digital economy & automation sp Re onsi rc bl in g e u pr o od als uct ic ion Eth 07 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 08 of the United Nations Sustainable Development coordinate actions. Each of our companies integrate In this report, we highlight our policies and progress Goals (SDGs) in September 2015, we have taken these initiatives into their core business operations, in 2018 in support of the UNGC Principles, and our the opportunity to review our agendas to ensure backed by a dedicated sustainability function approach to integrate the SDGs into our operations alignment with the global effort towards the to develop, coordinate and manage the overall and supply chain partnerships. 2030 agenda for sustainable development. Our sustainability strategy within respective operations. sustainability roadmap contributes to most of the To supplement this, the Fung Academy accelerates As a reader of this Report, you are critical to our SDGs, though we place particular emphasis on four learning and development across the group through success and continued growth. We look forward key goals that most directly overlap with our business programs focused on fostering a sustainable supply to your feedback. To further explore the disclosures footprint and our leverage: chain, cultivating innovation, and building leadership and websites of our respective Group of Companies, as well as a culture of learning. click on the logos below for more information: The Fung Group of companies operates one of the world’s most extensive global supply chain networks for consumer goods. The Corporate Sustainability & Compliance team manages risk and compliance, while furthering sustainability in our supply chains. At Fung Group, we are committed to creating value for the communities where we operate, through engaging our global networks and partners to make positive impact to society and demonstrate our commitment to the UNGC Principles and SDGs. We help our colleagues to engage communities through the Li & Fung Foundation, by providing resources and support for them to contribute their skills and knowledge through volunteering work, raising funds and various social and Fung Group’s commitment to upholding environmental campaigns that support communities internationally-recognized principles and supporting worldwide. sustainability initiatives is driven by the Sustainability Working Group. The Working Group includes Through the collaboration between the Sustainability sustainability leaders from across our companies – Working Group, the Fung Academy, internal representatives from the sustainability functions in stakeholders, industry coalitions and our networks of each of the Group companies, compliance and risk supply chain partners, we attune with ever-changing management, corporate sustainability and compliance. markets, new technologies and policies that may They convene regularly to share sustainability trends impact sustainability strategies. and global best practices, build partnerships and 09 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 10 UNGC’S Ten Principles UNGC Principles The Fung Group of companies is committed to laws and regulations for human and labor rights, the UNGC’s Ten Principles and has integrated the occupational health and safety, environment and Human rights framework into both our operations and supply chain. security as well as transparency and ethics. We ensure The Group and companies’ Code of Conduct and alignment with International Labor Organization’s (ILO) 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Business Ethics requires all employees to embed in core conventions, California Transparency in Supply internationally proclaimed human rights; and business operations the Ten Principles. Policies and Chains Act, and the UK Modern Slavery Act additionally key operating guidelines for addressing the code have where relevant. 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. integrated into our new business acquisition process and through our recruitment, training, performance Our Group Companies’ Supplier Code of Conduct assessment, disciplinary and grievance processes. Li & Fung: https://www.lifung.com/wp-content/ Labor Fung Group’s Code of Conduct and Business Ethics uploads/2018/03/CoC2015-English.pdf Global Brands Group : https://d1io3yog0oux5. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Li & Fung: https://www.lifung.com/wp-content/ cloudfront.net/globalbrandsgroup/files/GBG_Supplier_ eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; uploads/2018/03/LF-Code-of-Conduct-and-BusinessPrinciples.pdf Ethics.pdf 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Convenience Retail Asia: Supplier Code of Conduct is 5 The eﬀective abolition of child labor; and Global Brands Group: https://ir.globalbrandsgroup. shared with suppliers during the company’s supplier com/corporate-governance/code-of-conduct-and6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment qualification process. business-ethics and occupation. Convenience Retail Asia: http://www.cr-asia.com/eng/ Compliance against the code is assessed by the Group business/code_of_conduct.pdf companies, external auditors and/or independent industry organizations. Suppliers are required Environment As the Group operates a sophisticated supply chain to address non-compliances identified from the assessment with time-bound corrective actions. network, we are leveraging our extensive reach to 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to The Supplier Code emphasizes our zero-tolerance influence people and communities in alignment with environmental challenges; approach for any kind of bribery, use of child or forced the UNGC principles. For instance, each of our Group 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental labor or serious health and safety issues. Factories companies has established a Supplier Code of Conduct responsibility; and that outlines the minimum standards required to with systemic zero-tolerance issues that have not been properly remediated are discontinued, and business is 9 Encourage the development and diﬀusion do business with the Group and its companies. Each of environmentally-friendly technologies. terminated with a responsible exit plan. of the Group’s operating companies maintains and reviews its Supplier Code based on local, national Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 11 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 12 Convenience Retail Asia Limited's CSR Steering Committee (Key members : Chief Executive Oﬃcer and Chief Operating Oﬃcer) and the Food Safety and Supply Team. Each team Li & Fung has taken up the role as an advisory Working Committee has subject matter experts from relevant business group member of the Organisation for Economic functions to monitor sustainability performance and Co-operation and Development (OECD) initiative offer recommendations for further improvement. In on Responsible Supply Chains in the Garment and 2018, the Working Committee met on two separate Footwear Sector. The advisory group member occasions. has contributed to the publishing of the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains in Partnerships for Sustainable Development the Garment and Footwear Sector (Guidance). The Guidance establishes a common standard for supply The Group has actively engaged with our industry chain due diligence to help companies in building up Training and Food Safety partners to deepen the scale and impact of our Environment Team Social Team responsible and ethical supply chains. Workplace Safety Team and Supply Team supply chain sustainability programs. Below is a list of Introduced a range of Initiated community Implemented Implemented food industry coalitions and organizations that our group initiatives to improve engagement plans workplace safety safety awareness resource utilization and activities in line measures and training program of companies has been partnering with to drive our and environmental with community programs sustainable development programs. eﬃciency needs Key Collaborations and Memberships of Fung Group Companies Sustainability Governance Structure • Risk mitigation strategy for modern slavery in the supply chain Our approach to managing sustainability is built upon a strong foundation of corporate governance. At Li & • Revision of the Supplier Code of Conduct to Fung Limited, the Risk Management Committee was address the UN Guiding Principles on Business established in 2001 and sustainability was formally and Human Rights incorporated into its mandate in 2011. Chaired by the Honorary Chairman, the committee provides For details about the committee, its composition or recommendations to the Board on risk management operations, please refer to Li & Fung’s 2018 Annual and internal control systems, and reviews its practices Report. on corporate responsibility and sustainability. The committee met four times in 2018 and discussed the At Convenience Retail Asia Limited, the CSR Steering following: Committee is responsible for identifying and reviewing sustainability risks and opportunities, • Updates on matters related to our corporate recommending sustainability strategies to its responsibility and sustainability initiatives, executive management team, tracking performance compliance with our Code of Conduct and and providing updates to senior management Business Ethics and Supplier Code of on the latest relevant sustainability matters. The Conduct and overall supply chain management chart illustrates the operations and focuses of the and partnerships CSR Steering Committee. The Steering Committee • Zero-tolerance issues that are violations of the supervises a Working Committee comprising four Supplier Code of Conduct and remediation working teams: the Environment Team, the Social actions Team, the Training and Workplace Safety Team 13 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 14 Engaging Key Stakeholders In 2018, Convenience Retail Asia Limited conducted Priority Issues a survey with internal stakeholders to determine At Fung Group, engaging stakeholders is crucial to material issues for shaping its sustainability understanding the sustainability issues of concern roadmap. Results from the materiality assessment to them. Li & Fung has established regular and open are summarized below and focus on product channels for engaging its key stakeholder groups Employee Focus responsibility, employment and labor standards and throughout the year, as outlined below. the environment. • Career development • Diversity and inclusion Employees Priority Issues • Employee wellbeing • Annual conference, town halls, company intranet communications • Annual employee engagement surveys Customers Supply Chain Focus Product Responsibility • Annual Voice of the Customer surveys • Safe and fair working conditions • Product quality assurance and recall procedures • Face to face meetings • Human rights and supplier management • Customer data and privacy • Product and service related complaints Suppliers and workers • Intellectual property rights • Annual supplier conferences, meetings and trainings • Online vendor portal Environment Investors • Raising awareness and climate action • Communication, brieﬁngs and investor conferences • Responsible consumption • Feedback through social media and email (ir@lifung.com) Employment and Labor Standards • Product responsibility • A safe and healthy workplace Industry partners • Employment system • Dialogue and meetings • Child and forced labour The Global Fashion Agenda (GFA) is one of the • Industry collaboration initiatives apparel industry coalitions that is convening major Community fashion industry decision makers to address the Non-governmental and • Employee engagement and giving back environmental, social and ethical challenges of community organizations • Collaborating with stakeholders and partners the sector. In 2018, Li & Fung actively engaged in • Dialogue and meetings Environment setting GFA’s CEO Agenda. The company’s business • Partnership and projects with the supply chain partners • Electricity consumption and eﬃciency The material issues raised by our stakeholder groups leaders and sustainability executives supported • Packaging material consumption and eﬃciency during these regular exchanges, together with our and participated in the discussion of key issues Government actions, are reflected in this report. our industry is facing, how innovation can drive • Through industry groups and direct dialogue Global Brands Group conducted a materiality sustainability performance and promote transparency, assessment led by a third-party consultant in 2017 equality and worker empowerment and the need Academia to engage its internal and external stakeholders in to build a circular economy. The company has been • Partnership and projects with academic institutions identifying material issues for the development of implementing programs according to the above Media its ‘Global Brands for Global Good’ strategy. Priority eight sustainability priorities identified in the CEO • Communications, meetings, press conferences issues identified from the materiality assessment are Agenda. More details about sustainability programs • Feedback through email (media@lifung.com) grouped into four aspects, employees, supply chain, that the Group has implemented will be discussed in the environment and community engagement. subsequent sections. 15 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 16 Equitable and Ethical Workplaces Female 52% Promoting fairness, respect and diversity for everyone in our operations and supply chain are core values Female Li & Fung 70% of Fung Group. Our approach is to ensure equal Limited treatment and opportunities for our colleagues in the Human Rights workplace and to work towards eradicating forced and child labor in the supply chain. Male Global Brands Group Holding Limited & Labor 48% Fung Group Companies Gender by Employee Group Female Male 64% 30% At Fung Group, we treasure the principles of equal opportunity and treatment, and fairness in Female Convenience accountability and rewards. Female employees Retail Asia 64% represent 57% of our total workforce, and close to 40% Limited Fung Group is committed to upholding internationallyof our management team. Other private recognized human rights and labor standards in entities under Male our own operations and across our supply chains. Fung Group Diversity & Inclusion 36% We are proud to support the International Labour The Fung Group of companies operates in more than Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles Male 50 countries with approximately 39,900 people. We and Rights at Work and the United Nations Universal 36% are committed to building an inclusive workplace, Declaration of Human Rights, and we adhere to local where diversity of gender, ethnicity, thought, sexual laws and regulations in every jurisdiction where we orientation and ability are valued. The Group launched operate. These principles form the foundation of a Diversity & Inclusion initiative in 2017 to raise the Group’s human rights and labor policies, which awareness, change perceptions and empower our also define our approach and priorities in deploying colleagues to foster a collaborative workplace. In programs in our operations and across our supply 2018, we partnered with a Hong Kong-based not-forchain. In this regard, the four priorities of equitable profit organization, Community Business, to conduct and ethical workplaces, occupational health and presentations that highlight lesbian, gay, bisexual and safety, empowerment and digital economy and transgender awareness across our Hong Kong, Taiwan responsible automation, guide our actions outlined and China offices. Monthly articles and videos are below. shared covering topics on unconscious bias, mental health awareness, linguistic and cultural diversity and addressing sexual harassment and generational diversity in the workplace. 55 workshops on Unconscious 400+ colleagues attended Bias were conducted in 2018 17 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 18 Li & Fung and Global Brands partnered with BSR to The Social Dialogue program was developed in Africa were at a higher risk of forced labor because of Li & Fung and Global Brands worked closely with implement the HERhealth project in factories located partnership between Li & Fung and Just Solutions practices related to the recruitment of foreign migrant organizations specializing in the protection of in less developed countries. Factory workers, most of Network to strengthen the relationship between workers. Li & Fung has joined forces with industry children’s rights within the supply chain. Li & Fung whom are female, were trained with the knowledge on factory workers and management through coalitions and external organizations to take action in partnered with the Center for Child Rights and nutrition, health and financial literacy to enhance their constructive dialogue for the factories in Bangladesh. mitigating these risks: Corporate Social Responsibility (CCR CSR) to train living conditions and livelihoods. Since 2014, we have: Below is a summary of the results from phase 1 (Feb factories and suppliers in Bangladesh, China and other signed the pledge on 2016 to Dec 2017) and progress of phase 2 (launched core sourcing countries to prevent child labor and Engaged with responsible recruitment, in July 2018): hazardous forms of work for young workers. Global 4 80+ 17,500 committing the company Brands worked with ChildHope in 2018 to launch a as to integrate responsible Ph e fundraising campaign to support projects that protect recruitment into its social countires factories workers 1 turnover rate reduced from children from violence and injustice in key sourcing compliance standards 4.13% to 3.16%, absenteeism countries such as Bangladesh and India. Delivered result: 232 decreased by 8% utilized the “Apprise” factories Occupational Health and Safety mobile app to survey Productivity increased 11% in India Ensuring a healthy, safe workplace and enhancing the as Ph e migrant workers in their Female resignations decreased 28% 2 305 employees trained on own languages on their wellbeing of our colleagues and workers are core elements in Vietnam freedom of association, workplace conditions of our human rights and labor programs. We also adhere Female absenteeism decreased by 4% 11 participation committees, safety committees and to stringent standards and requirements in delivering factories partnered with Ethical products that are safe for people and our planet. in Bangladesh grievance mechanisms Trading Initiative (ETI) to engage suppliers in China Health and Safety Governance Grievance Mechanisms In the post-training opinion surveys, 98 per cent of to pilot a new modern We are committed to maintaining a healthy and safe Effective mechanisms for information sharing, respondents indicated they learned new skills and slavery digital education environment in every part of our business operations. consultation, and negotiation is crucial in establishing knowledge that were useful to them in their work. package targeting factory All Li & Fung logistics facilities have implemented an equitable workplace. Li & Fung and Global Brands management. The tool is comprehensive occupational health and safety worked together with ILO Better Work to establish developed by Swedish-based management systems with fifteen distribution centers Eradicating Modern Slavery industrial relations practices into 170 factories. Better training company, QuizRR holding Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Work’s advisory services begin with the development At Li & Fung, the Risk Management and Sustainability 18001 and Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points of a performance improvement consultative Committee offers guidance on the company’s policies Eradicating Child Labor and Advocating for (HACCP) certifications. Promoting health and safety committee. The committee is comprised of workers and actions relating to addressing modern slavery and Children’s Rights awareness is crucial to fostering a culture of safety in the and management representatives and serves as a human trafficking in the business and supply chain. organization, as well as regular talks and training on safe platform to facilitate worker-management dialogue. The company’s Disclosure Statement on Modern In 2018, Li & Fung developed a standard operating workplace practices, fire and emergency prevention drills With effective collaboration and consultation Slavery is available here. procedure to assist colleagues working regularly at being held across all of our facilities. In 2018, there were mechanism in place, it results in a more committed production sites. Training was conducted for colleagues no fatalities in our workplaces globally. workforce and improved performance at the In 2018, Li & Fung undertook a due diligence in Bangladesh, Guatemala, India, Portugal, Sri Lanka and workplace. assessment of its supply chain locations and identified Vietnam to enable them to communicate relevant code Li & Fung served as an advisor to the Bangladesh Accord China and Bangladesh as the key risk countries for requirements to factories and assist them in identifying on Fire & Building Safety (the Accord) and the Alliance modern slavery. This is due to the geographical suspected cases of child labor while working onsite with for Bangladesh Worker Safety (the Alliance) to improve breadth and variation in types of exploitation, suppliers. safety conditions of garment factories. Results from including forced overtime and debt-bondage. Some countries in Southeast Asia, Middle East and North 19 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 20 Leader Development the Accord and the Alliance programs demonstrated Food Safety Awareness Program Employee Governance the value of collective action in driving workplace safety. Development Product safety has always been a top priority at The company is also a partner of the Life & Building Convenience Retail Asia Limited. There are policies and Safety (LABS) Initiative, in collaboration with IDH, The Sustainable Trade Initiative (IDH) and other brands and management system frameworks in place to ensure FMEP that all products comply with regulatory safety and retailers. The LABS Initiative has developed a scalable health requirements. Compliance Highest Quality Quality program to mitigate fire and electrical hazards, and On-time Delivery structural building safety risks in apparel and footwear Lower Cost Major Quality Management and producing countries in Southeast Asia. Food Safety Systems Adopted Safe Working Environment at Saint Honore Safe workplaces Environmental Delivery 192 Sustainability Occupational Safety & ISO 9001 Quality Health Hazard Analysis supplier factories score Manaagement System and Critical 100% Updated to 2015 version Control Points (HACCP) Factories in Shenzhen Factory in Shenzhen and Hong Kong Partnering to Build Talent for the Future Capacity Building Programs and Resources on worker safety under the Accord and the Alliance programs in Bangladesh In 2018 Global Brands teamed up with other retail At Fung Group, we have offered programs to equip industry partners to support the 12-week mentorship our suppliers and workers with the skills to develop China National Accreditation program under the New York Fashion Tech Lab sustainable businesses and drive their continuous Enhancing Employee Wellbeing Services for Conformity that supports women innovators in harnessing improvement. Our capacity-building programs covering Assessment (CNAS) At Fung Group, we implement health and wellness their entrepreneurship when running businesses. 22 key subjects in labor practices, workplace health Microbiological programs globally to help our colleagues build laboratory at factory Explorium Hong Kong collaborated with nonprofit and safety, environmentalperformance, etc. In 2018, awareness of their physical and emotional wellbeing. in Shenzhen organizations such as Young Founders School to help 273 training sessions were organized with a total of In 2018, we launched the 360 Wellness program with high school students cultivate leadership and design6,353 participants. To learn more about our programs a series of Lunch and Learn sessions and internal thinking skills through technology-focused boot camps, download the brochure from this link. e-newsletters to promote awareness of physical and the goal being to co-create a more sustainable future. Empowerment mental wellness at the workplace as well as the skills to Businesses today are facing stringent social and People are valuable resources and we partner with environmental regulations and pressure to lower cost. foster wellbeing and a positive mindset. organizations to engage and support those across our The Fung Manufacturing Excellence Program (FMEP) global networks to develop the skills and knowledge aims to empower Li & Fung suppliers to become that can improve livelihoods for themselves and their more sustainable and competitive. The chart above families. illustrates the key components of FMEP. As part of FMEP, we launched an End of Line QC application for accurate, real-time data at the production lines. This application digitizes production data, improves efficiency and quality at the sewing line. Besides, the solution provides transparent records to support accurate calculations of piece rates for workers. The application is currently operational in seven factories across three countries. 21 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 22 in Vietnam and India with content available in local Digital Economy and Responsible languages. More languages will be available as we Automation continue to roll out the app in other countries. Fung Group is embracing the rise of digital deployed to 10 suppliers, technologies, the Internet of Things and big data to +15,000 workers, 26,000 screen Environment deliver technology-enabled programs and solutions Vietnam views in just 6 weeks that are contributing to the wellbeing of our people and the sustainable growth of the communities where invited 50+ suppliers in Oct 2018 we operate. Indonesia to review and 12 suppliers on board HERfinance Digital Wages Program Addressing climate change and building environmental In 2018, Li & Fung took part in the Digital Wages resilience is critical to our world’s sustainable future, program developed by BSR with support from the Bill and businesses must rise to this challenge. The Fung & Melinda Gates Foundation for factory workers in Group of companies has instilled principles of pollution India and Bangladesh. Implementing digital payroll at prevention and the management and implementation factories provides a transparent and secure process of environmental responsibility programs into our for the factory workers to receive wages correctly and operations and supply chains as we work to mitigate on time. The workers, who are mostly women, benefit global climate change. We will discuss further about from ownership of a formal saving account and being Scan to download our efforts around resource efficiency and climate the app able to save money from their payroll, thus reducing action, as well as responsible manufacturing and their vulnerability to unexpected economic shocks. circular economy, in this section. Mobile Learning Solution for Remote Workforce Resource Efficiency and Climate Action Circle K, the convenience store business of At Fung Group, we inspire and support our people to WorkerApp Convenience Retail Asia Limited, launched a mobile adopt good practices in protecting our environment. learning solution that supports employee training in A highlight of our efforts in 2018 was our Sustainability The WorkerApp, created by Li & Fung and the Fung remote locations. The trial was initially rolled out in Expo hosted by Explorium Hong Kong and the Li Academy, aims to improve the lives of factory workers 2018 for Circle K colleagues and will be extended to its & Fung Foundation. The expo featured a short through technology and innovation. It is a digital bakery and eyewear chains. documentary produced by Hong Kongnon-profit platform that enables two-way communication between workers and factory management and organization, Eco Drive, to raise awareness about the engages workers through surveys, announcements single-use plastic crisis and to urge action in alleviating and educational content about finance, personal the problem. Over 220 colleagues and representatives hygiene, wellbeing and other topics. It is designed of other companies and non-governmental to improve the quality of life and capabilities of organizations gathered for a panel discussion with workers. It also helps factory management better sustainability experts to share good practices in understand workers’ needs and expectations of the reducing the use of disposable plastic in their daily work environment so that the factory can improve lives. conditions and ultimately, workers’ loyalty and satisfaction. The App was launched in 2018 initially 23 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 24 Fung Group 2017-18 Environmental Data Li & Fung Global Brands Group Convenience Retail Asia Properties adopted Sustainable Design, Construction and 2017* 2018 2017** 2018 2017 2018 Renovation Guidelines to maintain ergonomically-sound work GHG scope 1 areas and resource-eﬃcient equipment and ﬁxtures 4,434 7,337 350 119 2,888 4,206 Global Brands New York and France oﬃces have (tCO2e) Li & Fung oﬃces reduced the number of printers by 25% and set up an initiative to reduce greenhouse gas GHG scope 2 emissions and air pollution by oﬀering discounts switched printing paper from 80 to 70gsm, resulting in print (tCO2e) 52,678 44,058 5,096 2,370 36,157 35,705 volumes reducing by 4.1 tons, a 10% decrease or reimbursement to employees taking public transportation to work. New York, London and Hong Kong, Guangdong, Shanghai, Singapore, Istanbul, Bangladesh, New York Electricity (’000kwh) 93,662 88,640 13,345 5,695 62,682 63,911 several European oﬃces provide secure bike storage for employees who bike to work Water Saint Honore factories in Hong Kong and 418,127 448,091 5,378 62,212 188,737 209,886 China have reduced food waste by donating (m3) an average of 25,300 pieces of bread per Paper month to charity and have replaced delivery 212,964 306,758 29,763 2,611 (Reams) trucks to EURO 5/6 standards Packaging materials 1,376 1,370 (tons) * Consumption and emission data in 2017 has been adjusted to reflect the company’s continuing operations Germany for consistent presentation. Shanghai New York London France ** Due to the divestment of parts of the Global Brands operations on 30 October 2018, only those Global Brands owned and operated sites post divestment were included in this report. Water consumption for 2018 includes an estimation for Istanbul China all Global Brands full-time employees. Hong Kong Bangladesh Thailand Environmental Footprint Total GHG emissions at Convenience Retail Asia Malaysia Limited increased due to the rise in refrigerant Singapore We operate an environmental management system consumption by air-conditioning systems and cold to measure the Group companies’ performance storage facilities from its operations. In the second across a number of environmental metrics, including half of 2018, production equipment was replaced with greenhouse gas emissions (GHG), energy, water and more energy-efficient models to reduce consumption. paper consumption, and specific waste streams. We LF Logistics’ distribution center in Malaysia have consolidated our environmental footprint in the utilizes drones for stock-taking and deploys Sustainable Workplace and Efficient Operations table above. Global Brands Monheim oﬃce in Germany electric vehicle ﬂeets Below are some of the sustainable workplace reduces food waste by engaging with a local Meiyume’s R&D facility in Thailand, equipped with Total GHG emissions and electricity consumption programs and good practices in reducing GHG food-sharing initiative to purchase rooftop solar photovoltaic renewable energy system, at Li & Fung decreased in 2018. The increase in emissions and minimizing waste to landfill that we close-to-expired food from supermarkets generates 48,214 kWH of electricity per year, energy consumption as result of the expansion of have implemented across our network of operations. and stocking them in a communal provides up to 40% of the facility's energy refrigerator to share with colleagues the logistics business was offset by the consolidation of overall business activities. Increases of water Follow this link here to read more about the Fung and paper consumption was primarily due to the Group of companies’ footprint reduction initiatives extended coverage of consumption data across its global operations and the expansion of the logistics business. 25 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 26 Responsible Manufacturing and Circular significantly lower environmental impact through Measuring Factory Performance Energy Sensor Program Economy reducing wastage in product sampling and production Li & Fung and Global Brands utilized the Higg Facility In 2018, the Fung Group of companies piloted a “smart and minimizing the frequency of travel and The Ellen MacArthur Foundation is the advocate to Environmental Module, developed by the Sustainable factories” project in several factories in China and transportation. Cobalt Fashion rolled out a virtual lab accelerate the transition to new business models Apparel Coalition, to assess environmental impact in India. Energy sensors that were installed into the pilot in 2018 that can create virtual catwalks and build up that incorporate a circular economy. Fung Group is a their supply chains. Over 600 factories were connected factories reduced electricity consumption by 15% in an entire digital library of yarn, stitches and silhouette member of the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s Make through the tool to share their environmental China and 3% in India with a payback period of less to support its customers’ requirements. Fashion Circular initiative. Through this initiative, we performance data in 2018. than 12 months. collaborate with member companies who share the goal Sustainable Sourcing and Circular Textiles of transitioning the industry into a circular system. Our focus is to build the evidence base to promote innovative operating models that increase the reuse of clothing, with a focus on the scalability potential of these models. The Fung Group of companies is committed to minimizing environmental impact across our supply chain. Sustainable product design, responsibly-sourced materials and well-managed manufacturing operations Photo courtesy Sustainable Apparel Coalition are all areas of opportunity. In 2018, Cobalt Fashion launched 22 Factor, a brand that evolved from a sustainable sourcing project Chemical Use Reduction 3D Virtual Design & Sampling in 2017. Knitwear from this project utilizes luxury, Li & Fung partnered with GoBlu to implement a dead-stock yarn salvaged from factories to create digitized platform to manage chemical inventory in premium quality product at a fraction of the price. factories. The new program simplified tracking and Cobalt Fashion partnered with 3H handicrafts, a social identified areas for improvement and enhanced enterprise that offers migrant women the opportunity transparency of chemical management across to make a living by producing handicrafts using the supply chain. Twenty factories in China and salvaged yarns. Bangladesh have been assessed in 2018 and the outcome from the pilot enabled visibility of their total chemical inventories and identification of priority chemicals for substitution. Li & Fung, Global Brands and Cobalt Fashion are utilizing 3D virtual design to support their customers to quickly share concepts, perfect designs, select materials and tweak product attributes with Photo courtesy Fabscrap Global Brands worked with FABSCRAP and Green Zone in its US offices to collect fabrics scraps, samples and Photo courtesy GoBlu post-consumer textile waste for reuse and recycling. More than six tons of material collected from these offices were diverted from landfills in 2018. 27 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 28 Code of Conduct and Business Ethics over 130 global senior leaders. These senior leaders then conducted sharing sessions with their teams Fung Group’s Code of Conduct and Business Ethics to cascade the values of proper business ethics. The is the keystone for all operations to operate based group has launched an e-Learning module on the Code on the principles of accountability, transparency and of Conduct and Business Ethics that provides guidance good governance. The Code sets out the standards for our colleagues in making ethical judgements when of behavior for all employees to conduct business they are working with suppliers and customers. Over as well as interact with customers and supply chain 1,100 employees have completed the training since the Anti-corruption partners. It emphasizes the prohibition of bribery and program launched in November 2018. corruption practices by all staff in the countries where the Group operates. All employees must sign and abide by this Code. Whistleblowing Policy 110 face-to-face workshops 91 certiﬁed trainers in 22 were conducted ≥ Implementation of the Code’s guidance on antilocations bribery and anti-corruption is supported by the reached Shanghai & 4,038 Whistleblowing Policy established for the Group’s Shenzhen hubs companies. Under the Guidelines on Whistleblowing/ Taiwan Reporting of Concerns, employees can report Hong Kong colleagues participated Southeast Asia concerns to either senior management or the Group The Fung Group of companies is committed to in 2017 2018 USA Chief Compliance and Risk Management Officer. conducting business fairly and responsibly, and Any stakeholders, including customers and suppliers, prohibits all forms of corruption and bribery. This Business Ethics and can also report similar concerns by contacting our 133 commitment extends to all parties across the Group, Integrity workshops Group Chief Compliance and Risk Management Officer including employees, contractors, business partners for senior leaders in confidence. 6 and supplier networks globally. sessions in global senior leaders Hong Kong participated Supplier Code of Conduct (Jun Aug) Suppliers to the Group companies are also required to comply with each company’s Supplier Code of Conduct Code of Conduct & Business Ethics that includes principles addressing anti-bribery and eLearning Module anti-corruption. Business Ethics and Integrity Workshops incorporated into online orientation A Business Ethics and Integrity Education Working program for new employees onboarding Group was established to further the Group’s corporate compliance culture and work ethics through training and raising awareness across our operations. In 2018, the Working Group organized six instructorled Business Ethics and Integrity workshops for 29 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 30 UN Sustainable Development Goals Relevant Fung Group Action and Impact Key Programs Fung Group welcomes the opportunity to support the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We focus our SDGs Sustainability attention and action on four global goals that are particularly aligned with our business, given our operational Priorities and geographical footprint. Our efforts towards these four goals and our priorities in accomplishing the Group’s Occupational Good health is fundamental to Comprehensive sustainability roadmap are summarized in this section. health and safety enabling our employees and occupational health and those of our business partners safety management Relevant Fung Group Action and Impact Key Programs and suppliers to live fully and system adopted for SDGs Sustainability reach their greatest potential. We logistics operations. Priorities advocate for safe and healthy P.18 Equitable and Promote equality, diversity and Diversity and Inclusion workplaces as well as promoting The Alliance and the ethical workplaces inclusion in our workplaces and program to raise and raising awareness of Accord programs to factories through the work with awareness and empower occupational health and safety at improve workplace safety industry partners and non-profit our colleagues to foster our operations and in the supply for factories in Bangladesh organizations to create ethical and collaborative workplaces chain. P.18 fair environments in our operations P.16 Adhering to stringent standards 360 Wellness program and our supply chain. We dedicate HERhealth Project to to raise awareness of our efforts towards eradicating and requirements in the delivery enhance the capacity of physical and mental modern slavery and child labor and of products that are safe and of female factory workers in wellness at the workplaces hazardous forms of work for young consistent quality is crucial to less developed countries P.19 workers in the supply chain best serve our customers and P.17 our planet. We uphold product Saint Honore bakery chain Effective communication and Better Work and Social responsibility through the adopted high standard of grievance mechanisms are crucial Dialogue programs sourcing of sustainable materials, quality management and for organizations to achieve to strengthen responsible manufacturing and food safety system P.19 sustainable growth. We work with worker-management product safety standards. partners to develop programs that communication enable better communications P.17 Empowerment Engage and support the people Programs to cultivate between employees and and capacity that work with us in our operations skill sets for women and Mekong Club Apprise management. development and the supply chain in developing students to co-create mobile app to support the skills and knowledge to improve sustainable future P.19 migrant workers P.18 both their own and their family QuizRR digital education Capacity-building livelihoods. package on modern slavery programs to equip for factories in China. suppliers and workers P.18 with the skills to develop CCR CSR programs to train sustainable businesses suppliers and factory and drive continuous workers in China and improvement P.20 Bangladesh to prevent child labor P.18 31 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 | 32 Relevant Fung Group Action and Impact Key Programs Relevant Fung Group Action and Impact Key Programs SDGs Sustainability SDGs Sustainability Priorities Priorities Digital economy Our work in this area reflects the WorkerApp mobility Responsible Through industry-wide 3D design and virtual and inclusive belief that improving lives start solution to facilitate manufacturing and stakeholders collaboration and sampling to minimize growth with poverty alleviation. Through communication between circular economy joint action to create sustainable wastage from product our business we support job workers and factory business models that incorporate sampling P.25 creation for people in emerging management P.21 circular economy principles. Cobalt utilizes dead-stock markets and economic growth, HERfinance digitalizing yarn to manufacture helping provide decent work and Provide sustainable design and payroll for workers in India premium quality knitwear protecting human rights. manufacturing solutions. Prioritize and Bangladesh P.21 P.25 materials that are from sustainable Through empowering our people in CRA e-Learning platform sources to reduce our impact on Global Brands set up utilizing technology, they can build for employees at remote the environment. collection points in their their capacity and be ready in this workplaces P.21 offices to collect fabric era of the digital economy. scraps, collecting six tons of material for reuse and recycling P.25 Higg Facility Environmental Module (Sustainable Apparel Resource efficiency Commit to finding new solutions to Environmental Coalition) to monitor and climate action enable responsible consumption management system factory environmental and encourage sustainable supply to measure the Group’s performance P.26 chain practices and resource environmental footprint Digitized chemical efficiency. P.23 inventory platform in By developing smart factories Rooftop solar panels factories to reduce use of and digitalizing the supply chain, providing 40% of energy priority chemicals P.26 we strive to foster responsible needs through renewable Energy sensor program consumption practices across our energy at Meiyume’s to help factories reduce global network of operations. Thailand facility P.24 electricity consumption P.26 33 | UN Global Compact • Communication on Progress 2018 Awards and Indices Li & Fung Platinum Award Silver Award for the Certificate of Excellence 2017/18 Servicing and Trading sector (Hong Kong Management Association) Convenience Retail Asia Meritorious Family-Friendly Platinum Award Employers 2017/18 (The Environment Bureau, HKSAR) (The Family Council of Hong Kong) Platinum Award Qualifications Framework Top Employer Fung Group 11th Floor, LiFung Tower 888 Cheung Sha Wan Road Kowloon, Hong Kong www.funggroup.com
