Our Responsibility 2018 2018 Non-financial annual reporting 2018 for Toms Gruppen A/S Toms Group A/S Page 2 Our Responsibility 2018 About this report In this report, we outline our approach to corporate social responsibility and report on our performance in 2018. Contents Corporate social responsibility statement bility issues related to our business, we assess and report This report covers the financial year 1 January 2018 31 on material issues. A welcome from our CEO, describing what December 2018 and represents the corporate social Guided by the UN Global Compact principles, we focus drives our work for sustainability at Toms responsibility statement of Toms Group A/S as required 05 Letter from our CEO on the issues representing a significant risk or opportuGroup by Sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. nity for us, our business partners or society. This report is structured according to the material issues identified in It forms part of Toms Group’s annual reporting, along our value chain in our 2017 materiality assessment (for with the 2018 annual reports of Gerda & Victor B. more information see page 9). Strands Fond, Gerda & Victor B. Strand Holding A/S and Our approach to corporate responsibility Toms Group A/S, respectively, which present detailed Terms used and the process leading to Toms Group 06 What is our responsibility? information about our operating and financial results. In this report, “Toms Group A/S”, “Toms Group”, “Toms Responsibility Strategy The financial annual report can be downloaded at Confectionery Group”, “Toms Gruppen”, “Toms” and “the tomsgroup.com. Company” are used interchangeably in referring to Toms Gruppen A/S and its subsidiaries. Communication on Progress 2018 to the UN Global Compact We welcome and value your feedback Our efforts to protect and ensure sustainable With this report we reaffirm our support of the 10 princiIf you have any feedback and suggestions on how we use of the earth’s resources and act with ples of UN Global Compact by describing our actions to can improve our reporting, please contact Lea Holm, 12 Our Sourcing respect for human rights along our supply continually improve the integration of the principles into Toms Group CSR and Communications Manager, at chain our business, culture and daily operations. lsh@tomsgroup.com. This report was published by Toms Group A/S digitally in English on 22 March Material issues 2018 and can be downloaded at tomsgroup.com. In order to give a balanced report on corporate responsiOur integration of well-being, high ethical standards and safety-, climateand environ20 Our Operations mental awareness in our corporate culture Toms Group A/S Ownership and processes Toms Allé 1 Toms Group A/S is a fully owned subsidiary of DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark Gerda & Victor B. Strand Holding A/S, Ballerup, Denmark. Tel. (+45) 4489 1000 Our initiatives to be a proactive and responsiFax: (+45) 4489 1099 Design ble partner in our home market communities Web: www.tomsgroup.com Meyer-Bukdahl supporting consumers with the information 26 Our Consumers E-mail: info@toms.dk Fireball and knowledge needed to make conscious and responsible choices Company reg. (CVR) no.: 56759328 Layout Established: 30 January 1924 Tappert Reklame Registered office: Ballerup Toms Group A/S Page 4 Our Responsibility 2018 Letter from our CEO It is crucial for our ability to pursue and ensure our continued growth and success that we manage to integrate long-term sustainability along our value chain. To succeed in this, we must ask ourselves: • Another important raw material from a CSR perspecWhat matters most? tive is palm oil. In 2017, we were pleased to reach our Where, along our supply chain, do we risk having an goal of sourcing 100% responsibly sourced palm oil. adverse impact on people or the planet, and where do we In 2018, we continued our venture to make responsihave the best chances of making a positive impact? bly sourced palm oil the norm across the industry. To answer these questions, we developed a new CSR • In Denmark, our new energy saving project initiated strategy in 2017, defining what we should focus on in with Ørsted is our strongest initiative for an environorder to develop our business in a responsible and susmentally sustainable development in 2018. Over the tainable way. next few years, a range of energy saving initiatives at our Danish facilities will result in great energy savWe did this based on a comprehensive assessment of ings for the benefit of the environment and our work which elements of our corporate social responsibility environment, and the initiatives will release funds for matter most. further investments This strategy guides us in our priorities and continued • Finally, in 2018, we decided to expand our support for adaptation to new knowledge, technical possibilities, rerenewable energy. Since 2015, our entire consumpquirements and new consumer trends. It guides us in the tion of electricity at our two Danish facilities has been often difficult and complex choices required to develop covered by renewable energy from Ørsted’s offshore lasting, positive impact. wind farms. From January 2019, our entire consumption of electricity at our German, Polish and Swedish Looking back at 2018, I would like to highlight a few sites will also be covered by wind power. Looking at the initiatives and achievements. These examples, among strong development of renewable energy in Denmark others, make me confident that we will succeed in this imand Europe, it is great to know that we are part of this portant task and manage to further develop our business important transition. sustainably: Results like these make me proud to share this report with • Our successful engagement in Ghana continued in you. And when meeting our customers and observing 2018 with our Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing Protrends of still more consumers demanding sustainable gramme. Through education, training and support, we sourcing and responsible production, I know that we are empower current cocoa farmers, their children and the on the right track, and I look forward to continuing the young men and women in the smallholder societies to development of Toms Group in 2019. continue to improve their livelihood and end deforestation. The strong achievements in this programme I hope you will enjoy reading this report. motivate us to keep fighting to achieve even more results. Carsten Lyngsø Thomsen Chief Executive Officer, Toms Group A/S Toms Group A/S Page 6 Our Responsibility 2018 What should we focus on to constantly improve social, environmental and financial sustainability along our value chain? In this chapter, you can read about our approach to choosing and managing the primary focus areas of our corporate social responsibility. WHAT IS OUR RESPONSIBILITY? Toms Group A/S Page 8 Our Responsibility 2018 Materiality asessment heat map What is our responsibility? 4.0 1 2 1 To continue consolidating our competitive market position – while 3.5 3 continuing to meet the different aspects of our corporate responsi4 2 5 7 Importance to stakeholders 4 3 12 8 bility, we must constantly adapt. We must adapt to new knowledge 3 2 1 in our supply chain; to new possibilities and requirements relevant 3.0 6 14 7 6 5 11 11 8 for our production; and to new consumer trends and movements in 13 16 4 10 9 9 5 the international society. 2.5 17 16 15 13 6 19 18 10 It is crucial that this adaption is based on an understandviews and workshops involving both internal and external 18 15 ing of long-term sustainability along our value chain, stakeholders. 14 2.0 20 17 12 covering environmental, social and financial sustainability. Consequently, it is crucial that this adaption is framed Inherent to the risk and materiality assessment were the by a holistic, business-driven CSR strategy. areas, where Toms has the largest impact on society, as well as the business risk to Toms. What matters most? 1.5 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Motivated by this need for a holistic, business-driven CSR These assessments helped us identify and prioritise the Importance to business strategy, we asked this question in 2017: What matters issues that matter most across our value chain. most? Our Sourcing Our Operations Our Consumers The result: Our focus Where, along our supply chain, do we have the greatThe result of the assessment is shown in the heatmap Our Sourcing est impact and which responsibilities are we rightfully on the right. All issues identified in the assessment are 1 Child labour / children’s rights 8 Deforestation 15 Mineral oils in cardboard expected to handle? rated on a scale from 0 to 5 on their importance for our 2 Cocoa 9 Transport (social and CO2) 16 Vanilla stakeholders and our business, respectively. 3 Responsible sourcing 10 Almonds 17 Hazelnuts Depending on our role, we are met with very different aspects of responsibility: Illustrating the result of our materiality assessment this 4 Human rights 11 Cocoa butter 18 Organic way gives a holistic and valuable overview of our corpo5 Packaging 12 Gelatin 19 Animal welfare • We must deal with the broad responsibilities following rate responsibility. 6 Certification 13 Women empowerment 20 Coconut from our supply chains starting for instance in Ghana’s smallholder cocoa farms or in Malaysian palm oil 7 Palm oil 14 Licorice In 2017, it guided us in prioritising the three tracks of plantations, our corporate responsibility strategy. During 2018, it has Our Operations • we need to be aware of the climate and environmenworked as a framework for our ongoing specification and 1 Food safety 7 Employee branding 13 Employee development tal responsibilities which follow from our ownership of implementation of this strategy. factories in Denmark, Poland and Germany, 2 Product quality 8 Migrant workers 14 Employee health Going forward, we will continually revisit the materiality 3 Employee safety / work accidents 9 Energy / CO2 15 Facilitation payment • we are humble towards the social responsibilities assessment to ensure that our priorities and approach to 4 Anti-corruption 10 Employee satisfaction 16 Waste following from our role as employer of 1,100 people, our corporate responsibility constantly address the right 5 Psychological work environment 11 Physical work environment 17 Recycling and issues for our business, our stakeholders and society in a 6 Water use / wastewater 12 Diversity / equality 18 Tax • we must deal with the multifaceted expectations of local and a global perspective. customers and consumers all over the world. Our Responsibility Policy Our Consumers To define the focus areas of our CSR strategy, we conOur Responsibility Policy sets the overall framework 3 Public health / nutrition 5 Healthier products / sugar 1 Product labeling ducted an extensive stakeholder, risk and materiality for our work with responsibility throughout our 2 Marketing towards children 4 Toms Visitor Centre 6 Local engagement / charity assessment, including comprehensive research, intervalue chain. Read the full policy here. Please note that the axes on the heatmap do not begin at “0”. All focus areas on the heatmap have some importance for our business as well as our stakeholders Toms Group A/S Page 10 Our Responsibility 2018 Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy Governance We aspire to good corporate governance, ensuring implementation and continued development of our Corporate Responsibility Strategy. To accomplish this goal, we redefined our governance structure in 2017. Local ownership of the strategy’s focus areas has been enhanced with the development of a “CSR Team” working across the organisation to ensure that the development of each strategy track is aligned. Our Sourcing Our Operations Our Consumers Also, our top management’s role as our “CSR Steering Committee” has been specified. Central aspects of our corporate responsibilNaturally, our own operations are the part of We see it as part of our responsibility to be a ity are located at the beginning of our value our value chain that offer the greatest possibilproactive and responsible partner in our home Together with a clear annual cycle for discussions, chain. ities for affecting the social and environmental market communities. decisions and internal KPI development and reporting, impact of our business. this structure will help us implement our business-driven Many of our goods are produced from critical This includes sponsorships and partnerships Corporate Responsibility Strategy, continuously adapting raw materials that pose a potential risk to Therefore, it is our responsibility to ensure that supporting balanced and active lifestyles it to the ever-changing needs of our stakeholders and our humans or the environment along their often the right processes, framework conditions and among our consumers. business. complicated supply chains. initiatives are in place in order to continue the responsible production of high-quality products. We shoulder a special responsibility towards The heatmap on the previous page guided us in priorWith that fact comes great responsibility for future consumers by supporting them with iticing our efforts in all the very different areas of our us as a manufacturer to protect and ensure Central to achieving this are our efforts to information and knowledge needed to make corporate responsibility and our sphere of influence. sustainable usage of the earth’s resources and achieve a safe, secure and healthy working conscious and responsible choices. We do this to act with respect for human rights at every environment with a high level of integrity and with a strong focus on our production chain, The three tracks in our Corporate Responsibility Strategy link in our supply chain ensuring responsible business ethics. So are our efforts to minimise sustainability and a balanced lifestyle. are illustrated on the left, showing a clear connection beprocurement practices. the environmental footprint and climate impact tween our business model/value chain and our approach of our production. to corporate responsibility. Product quality Environment Balanced Education Critical raw Responsible and food safety and climate lifestyle materials procurement Employees Business ethics Toms Group A/S Page 12 Our Responsibility 2017 OUR SOURCING Being a manufacturer, we have a responsibility to protect and ensure sustainable utilisation of the earth’s resources. We have a special responsibility for sustainable sourcing of our primary raw material, cocoa. Read about our persistent initiatives in Ghana for sustainable sourcing and about how we in general integrate respect for the environment and for human rights along our supply chain. Toms Group A/S Page 14 Our Responsibility 2018 local NGOs. The public-private cooperation has shown 3. Improved child labour prevention system and support strong results, proving that it is indeed possible to create to youths in cocoa communities OUR SOURCING changes if you are humble, patient and persistent. Effort is required to ensure respectful and impactful • Youth-focused initiative • Child Labour Monitoring and Remediation System (CLMRS) cooperation with the farmers. We want to empower the Central aspects of our corporate responsibility are located at the befarmers by assisting them today and supporting them with the knowledge they need to take the lead in the ginning of our value chain. We must protect and ensure sustainable continued sustainable development of their own farms use of the earth’s resources and act with respect for human rights and their communities. along our supply chain, ensuring responsible procurement practices. By taking this approach, our projects have wider scope and are able to support a larger segment of the Ghanaian farming communities – reaching our shared goal of sustainable, efficient production. Our responsibility Our fight for sustainable cocoa Many of our goods contain critical raw materials, which For more than a decade, the focus of our sustainable sourcing efforts has been our primary raw material, Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing Programme production poses a potential risk to humans or the envicocoa. To further the positive development achieved during the ronment along their often complex supply chains. Our long-standing engagement and commitment in last decade, we continued our Toms Sustainable Cocoa Ghana build on cooperation with the approximately Sourcing Programme with Ecom Sustainable ManageBeing a manufacturer, this leaves us with great responsi5,000 farmers who grow all of our West African cocoa. ment Service as a partner in 2018. bility to stay on top of developments in the supply chains of our critical raw materials and to ensure responsible, Over the last decade, we have worked closely with comThe programme is being implemented in two cocoa risk-based procurement practices for all of our 1,300 petent partners such as Danida, Oxfam IBIS, Ecom and growing regions of Ghana, Western and Brong Ahafo, in suppliers. close cooperation with the 5,000 farmers who live in the 112 communities located in these districts. Fighting deforestation Toms Group is signatory to the cross-industry Cocoa In continuation of the former projects’ scope and results, Forest Initiative, CFI. CFI gathers the world’s leading the Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing Programme aims cocoa and chocolate companies and the governto reach minimum 4,800 farmers through three proments of Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana in the important gramme components that include: fight to end deforestation and restore forest areas in the cocoa sector. 1. Improved access to agronomic knowledge and services to improve farmers’ capacity In 2018, Toms Group and the co-signatories of CFI • Training in good agricultural, environmental and announced the far-reaching Frameworks for Action social practices to specify how each company will contribute to • Development of demonstration farms (incl. educareaching the goal of CFI. tion in soil fertility management) • Business management education and guidance and In line with our CFI Action Plan, elements of our SusOur approach support to start up additional livelihoods tainable Cocoa Sourcing Programme for 2019 is to: Our Policy for Human Rights and our Supplier Code of Conduct provide the framework • Farmer coaching and initiation of farm development for our initiatives on responsible sourcing. plans to ensure lasting results • Map all farms by end-2019 and ensure that no Policy for Human Rights Supplier Code of Conduct farms contribute to deforestation Our main responsibilities towards human rights conOur pledge to respect human rights, labour standards, 2. Improved access to products and services to enhance • Train 4,800 farmers in Climate Smart Agricultural cern non-discrimination, employee rights, occupational the environment and anti-corruption is reflected at cocoa productivity and make farmers’ livelihoods more Practices health and safety and risks of human rights violations an operational level too, as it forms a significant part sustainable • Distribute 70,000 multipurpose trees for farm within our supply chain. of our Supplier Code of Conduct. Read the Code of • Access to high-quality planting material restoration This is described in our Policy for Human Rights, which Conduct here. • Access to responsible labour services • Distribute 165,550 cocoa seedlings was prepared in consultation with our law firm vali• Access to agro-inputs • Establish 24 community-based nurseries dating that it complies with the UN Guiding Principles. • Access to responsible savings and loans • Promote farm diversification to 564 farmers The policy can be downloaded here. • Develop traceability up to farm level Toms Group A/S Page 16 Our Responsibility 2018 Together we are stronger tivity of cocoa and food crops of 200,000 smallholder Ghana produces approximately 20 per cent of the cocoa-growing households in Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoworld’s cocoa – and Toms buys less than 0.5 per cent of ire, Ghana and Nigeria. For more information on the the cocoa produced in Ghana. Changes that reach the programme and its impressive results, click here. whole cocoa production industry therefore require action by the leading cocoa and chocolate manufacturing com• German Initiative on Sustainable Cocoa panies and call for broad cooperation across the industry Our group company Hanseatische Chocolade is in different associations. member of The German Initiative on Sustainable Cocoa (GISCO), which is a joint initiative of the Federal To fulfil our responsibility in making this happen, we Government, the German sweets and confectionary actively take part in a range of national and international industry, the German retail grocery trade, and civil cooperation initiatives: society. Jointly, the multi-stakeholder initiative aims to improve the livelihood of cocoa farmers and their fami• International Cocoa Initiative (ICI) lies as well as to increase the proportion of sustainably Since 2009, we have been a partner in the ICI to supproduced cocoa. For more information, click here. port the initiative’s important efforts to improve the lives of children and contribute to the elimination of • Danish Ethical Trading Initiative child labour in cocoa-growing communities and in the In 2018, we continued our membership of the DIEH, cocoa supply chain. Read about the impressive results which promotes ethical trade and responsible supply here. chain management among Danish companies and public institutions. For more info, click here. • World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) Since 2011, Toms Group has been supporting the WCF • CEN/ISO standard to help achieve our shared goal of cocoa sustainability. The European Committee for Standardization (CEN) WCF supports cocoa communities, education, field and the International Organization for Standardization programmes and scientific research. For more informa(ISO) are driving the development of a joint standard tion, visit the WCF website. for traceable and sustainable cocoa, which can help align industry efforts and bring sustainably improved • Cocoa Livelihoods Program cocoa production into the mainstream. Toms has The Toms Foundation supports the WCF Cocoa been an active participant in the development of this Responsible procurement other business partners related to corruption, violation Livelihoods Program running from 2014 to 2019. The standard from the beginning. The standard is forecast We require all our suppliers to follow our Supplier Code of human rights or environmental issues. In the event of programme is working to increase farm-level producto be finalised in 2019. Read about the standard here. of Conduct. This has been the case since 2009. In 2018, any such cases, they will be taken very seriously and we we strengthened the commitment by adding a signature will act immediately according to our Code of Conduct. form to the Code of Conduct for each supplier to sign Palm Oil when initiating or renewing its contract with Toms Group. Our 2019 initiatives Even though cocoa will always be the most important In 2019, we continue our fight for a sustainable cocoa raw material for Toms Group, we have specific focus on As part of our general work for responsible sourcing, we industry through Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing Proother raw materials too, for example palm oil. also use supplier questionnaires to assess all our suppligramme. As mentioned above, our programme for 2019 With a highly complex supply chain, the transition to ers. In 2018, all of our supplier audits conducted outside will be adapted to our responsibilities as signatories of sustainable production and use of palm oil requires Denmark and Sweden (approximately two-thirds) includthe Cocoa Forest Initiative. dedicated efforts from a huge number of players in ed social and environmental issues, based on our supplier the industry. questionnaire. We follow the development of the coming ISO/CEN standard for sustainable cocoa closely and will in 2019 review Therefore Toms Group is using 100% RSPO-certified We have not in any of these mechanisms registered or our possibilities for sourcing sustainable, certified cocoa. palm oil and works through a membership of RSPO to been made aware of any cases from our suppliers or make sustainable palm oil the norm. Toms Group A/S Page 18 Our Responsibility 2018 Naturally, the part of our value chain that offers the greatest possibilities for affecting the social and environmental impact of our business is our own operations. Therefore, we are focusing on the areas Product Quality, Our Employees, Environment and Climate and Business Ethics. In this chapter, you can read about how these focus areas help us ensure that the right processes, framework conditions and initiatives are in place in order to continue the responsible production of high-quality products. OUR OPERATIONS Toms Group A/S Page 20 Our Responsibility 2018 Product quality and food safety The quality and safety of our products is our top priority. We aim to develop, produce and market a consistently high product quality that meets the expectations of the consumers, customers and regulatory requirements. Integrated in supply chain Education and training Mitigation of intentional risks How we monitor our progress We have an important responsibility to ensure high It is our objective that all employees in Toms Group take Unfortunately, the food industry also faces intentional We have identified two key performance indicators to product quality and to mitigate any food safety risks in ownership of our product quality and food safety. We food safety risks such as sabotage and food fraud. help monitor the results of our work on product quality our value chain. ensure this through extensive training and education. and food safety. They are: To mitigate any risks connected to sabotage, we have • Number of major non-conformities from authorities, As a consequence, food safety (HACCP) and quality Particularly in relation to cleaning, sanitation and food a Food Defence Programme in place. The goal is to customers or certifying body. assurance cover our entire supply chain. It is integrated safety practices, where we follow certified procedures in prevent intentional contamination of our products. The • Number of consumer and customer complaints per into the design of new products, new machinery and into every step of the production. programme includes security and access control to our 100 tonnes of sold product. Each factory has individour processes. facilities. The control covers all ingoing and outgoing ual goals for this KPI, and they are subject to monthly Risk assessment personnel, guests, goods transports, etc. follow-up. We carefully select our raw materials and follow rigorous We have stringent procedures in place to ensure proper procurement and auditing processes to ensure safe, risk mitigation. We do this within the lines of the HACOur comprehensive programme for approval of suppliInitiatives and results 2018 high-quality raw materials. We require all our suppliers to CP and GMP principles. In case risks are identified, a ers plays a significant role in mitigating any risk of food In 2018, we have worked on several food safety initiademonstrate food safety (HACCP) performance equivmulti-disciplinary team evaluates any potential hazards. fraud. All our suppliers are approved through questiontives. The most important ones are: alent to ours, and processes are in place to identify and This evaluation leads to a risk assessment and to the naires, audits and risk assessments. During this risk • Review and improvement of our food safety evaluaact upon any negative food safety or quality impact in subsequent implementation of mitigating actions and assessment, suppliers are thoroughly screened on the tions our supply chains. controls. aspect of food fraud and the authenticity of the supplied • Risk awareness and risk prevention initiatives in the products. production • Improvement of our complaint handling and crisis Our approach Furthermore, Toms Confectionery Group performs risk management processes. This includes increased focus Our QES policy, Policy for Quality, Environment and assessment of all raw materials. In this risk assessment, on training of related processes in the organisation Safety, describes our approach to product quality food fraud and food authenticity are important aspects • Further implementation of food defence initiatives in and food safety. It describes the goals and princievaluated per group of raw materials. If risks are identiour supply chain. ples which guide our ongoing work to ensure high fied, control procedures, such as specific analyses or supquality and food safety along our entire supply plier documentation, are initiated to ensure authenticity. Our 2019 initiatives chain. In 2019, we are going to continue the food safety and Certified production plants food defence initiatives mentioned. Our focus will be on In 2019, the policy will be renewed when the eleAll of our production plants have been certified to meet further improvement of our quality system, ensuring effiments covering environment and health and safety the requirements of a standard recognised by the Global cient implementation of procedures and improvement of are moved to separate policies. Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). This certification helps us hygiene controls and certain quality controls. to secure an adequate level of food safety and good manufacturing practice (GMP). Toms Group A/S Page 22 Our Responsibility 2018 Employees Employee engagement survey We are very happy with the positive results across the Every year we conduct an employee engagement survey. Group. But the value of the survey is first and foremost its We do this to highlight any challenges and potential ability to show us areas where we can improve, and defor improvement of our employees’ engagement and spite overall positive results, there are still areas that need “We strive to be an inclusive workplace where each employee thrives work environment. Through the employees’ anonymous to be improved locally or at team level. We therefore responses, the survey measures how employees evaluate continuously work on improving the follow-up process, and has the opportunity to develop. We believe in the importance their work at Toms on a range of parameters covering both at country level and at team level, to ensure identiof our employees having a good work-life balance, and we want to job satisfaction, motivation and dedication as well as a fied challenges are handled properly. number of “drivers” for these: reputation, management, support employees having a healthy and active life.” cooperation, job content, wages, working conditions and opportunities for learning and development. This is from our Corporate Responsibility Policy, where The 2018 survey conducted in Denmark, Sweden and we describe how we aim to make a positive contribution Poland had a response rate of 91 per cent. along our value chain. This applies in particular to our 1,100 employees who, as the key to our long history and Employee engagement in numbers success, have developed Toms into the company we are The 2018 survey showed a high level of job satisfaction today. and loyalty across the Group, with major improvements in the Polish organisation and a small decline in the Below, we describe how we have continued our efforts Swedish organisation. in 2018 to ensure our employees’ engagement, health, safety and opportunities to develop at Toms. Looking at the overall Toms Group results, the survey shows scores above the Food & Beverage Industry benchmark on almost all parameters. Our approach Our diversity policy also describes our approach and Besides our described Corporate Responsibility Policy, initiatives for gender equality in our management and our approach to ensuring that Toms is a good and safe among employees in general. place to work is supported by a number of more specific Satisfaction & Motivation Loyalty policies that focus on different areas, communicating The aim is to capture as many aspects of the mutual how we define the conditions and expectations. obligations and responsibilities incorporated in the collaboration between managers and employees, 76 84 These include primarily elements of: supporting clear rules and communication of how we 74 82 • the well-being, safety and development both develop and protect the employees, creating the of our employees; best working conditions possible. 72 80 • the terms and conditions of employment 70 78 for different employee types. All policies that regulate our approach to our employ68 76 ees’ health and well-being are approved by our works To mention a few examples of relevant policies, we council. 66 74 have defined policies for: Personal relations in the 64 72 workplace; recruitment processes; how we create more Our externally available policies are available for 62 70 equality and diversity; health/nutrition/substance download here. 60 68 abuse; and how to handle sickness absence. Denmark Sweden Poland Industry Denmark Sweden Poland Industry Toms Group A/S Page 24 Our Responsibility 2018 Diversity Occupational health and safety We strongly believe that a diverse workforce improves our We have a general duty to ensure the safety and health Gender distribution in management performance potential, strengthens our competitiveness of workers in every aspect of their work. Below, we deThe six Board Members on the Board of Toms Group A/S are up for election every four years and are elected by the and makes Toms a better place to work. scribe the efforts implemented at each of our sites. general meeting. In 2016, Board Member Flemming Sundøe retired and Carsten Wehrmann was elected to the board; accordingly, the 100 per cent male gender distribution was maintained. No female candidates were identiIn all recruitment processes for both employee and Denmark fied in the recruitment process. There are, in addition, three staff-elected Board Members, one of whom are female. management positions, we always strive to have at least Our health and safety organisation at our two factories in The Board of Directors aims to have at least one female board member elected by the general meeting by 2021. one male and one female candidate in the final candiDenmark is structured in 15 safety groups, each responsidate pool. Likewise, we generally also strive to maintain a ble for a workplace area and the people employed in that The executive management group at Toms comprises eight members, two of whom are female. diverse workforce in terms of other diversity parameters. area. The group of managers below the executive management level comprises 68 members: 28 per cent women and 72 per cent men. This is the same gender distribution as in 2016. Other examples of how we put action behind the words In 2016, all safety groups made a complete workplace Executive Management Middle Management of our diversity policy are: assessment of their work area and on this basis produced an action plan. • People development: In the annual personal development dialogues, we discuss our employees’ needs for In 2018, we have implemented yearly workplace assesstraining and development. The purpose is to ensure ments. In order to ensure that we have reviewed all the 25% a continued match between employee competences 28% topics relevant for our industry over a 3-year period, we and the future requirements of the organisation. each year go into depth with one third of the relevant • Language teaching: In addition to the training and edtopics. The topics for 2018 were accidents, training and ucational opportunities we offer our employees within instruction – which is in line with our continued focus on their own specific job area, we offer classes in Danish accident prevention. and English to employees who, for various reasons, 75% 72% need to improve their language skills. Additional to these workplace assessments, we continuously adjust our procedures and training whenever we • Systematic engagement survey: Annual employee observe situations in risk of causing any danger to the Women Women engagement survey. (See details and results of recent health and safety of our employees. Men Men survey in the previous section “Employee engagement survey”). Germany • Flexi jobs and wage subsidies: As far as possible, we In 2018, our workers at our German site were trained in meet the needs for arrangements with flexible jobs correct handling of hazardous materials. This included and wage subsidies to help employees stay connected guidance in proper use of protective equipment such as to the labour market. gloves and safety glasses. These initiatives help us in our efforts to meet our emAt our German site we use the DGUV regulation 2, ployees’ diverse and changing needs for training, supcompany doctors and occupational safety specialists to port and development, and strengthen the benefits of a ensure ongoing adjustment and adaption to the potendiverse workforce for Toms. tial occupational health and safety risks. Our approach At both our Danish, German and Polish facilities, our health and safety work is structured according to our QES policy. In this policy we describe our approach to ensuring continuous improvement within health and safety by adequate plans and activities which ensure implementation along our entire supply chain. In addition, the policy describes our aim to continuously develop a proper QES mindset and responsible behaviour through training and guidelines for employees and contractors. This policy describes Toms Group’s approach, goals and principles on product quality, environment and health and safety. In 2019, this policy will be renewed when the three elements will be covered in three separate policies. Toms Group A/S Page 26 Our Responsibility 2018 Poland new employees, and the purpose is to help all employees A number of procedures describe how all employees feel welcome, motivated and well-informed about our must act to live up to our health and safety standards. corporate history, culture, good manufacturing practices These cover the following: and health and safety. • Waste management During 2019, we also plan to develop a health and safety module, which will help strengthen our safety culture • Cleaning and hygiene management in a factory, going forward. Employees must revisit this as well as the including correct handling of chemicals GMP module every year to ensure constant awareness of these important fields. • Registration of chemicals for cleaning and disinfection To further enhance our safety culture, we will in 2019 • Registration of chemicals in workshops work targeted on enhancing our accident prevention culture. We will do this with a strong focus on the tools Our 2019 initiatives and procedures which enable the identification and In the beginning of 2019, we will be launching a new prevention of accidents, and strengthen the cross-group onboarding programme, developed in 2018. The provigilant behaviour and use of PPE (Personal Protective gramme plays an important role in our onboarding of all Equipment). Occupational accidents We work systematically to continually improve workplace safety at our factories. Our focus in this work is both on optimisation of the physical conditions and on creating a culture where safety is balanced against the company’s other goals. We believe that our total efforts on health and safety at work are best measured by the accident frequency, which is why this is the key indicator we measure our performance against. The graph below shows the accident frequency for the past years at our two factories in Denmark, our German chocolate factory and our Polish packing facility. Occupational accidents per 1 m working hours 60 50 40 30 20 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Danish Chocolate Factory Candy Confectionery Factory German Chocolate Factory Polish Packing Facility The number of occupational accidents showed an increase in 2018 for our candy confectionery factory and a minor increase at our Danish chocolate factory. At our Polish packing facility and especially at our German chocolate factory the level decreased further in 2018, continuing the positive development during the last years. In 2019, we intensify our efforts for accident prevention with our safety organisation in general. Our investments in new production equipments at our candy confectionery factory also result in improved safety for the employees. An accident is defined as a work-related accident involving lost working time, excluding those accidents in which time lost is restricted to the day of occurrence. It is worth mentioning that our statistics cover all accidents, but only count the working hours of the hourly workers. Toms Group A/S Page 28 Our Responsibility 2018 Environment and climate Environment and climate are the cornerstones of our approach to our responsibility. We have an objective to minimise our impact on both global climate and the local environment through targeted efforts within energy savings, support of green transformation and responsible use of resources in our supply chain. Comprehensive energy savings From 2019, we have chosen to expand our support for Reduction in CO2 emissions In 2009, Toms Group entered a climate partnership Our approach green energy by covering our entire electricity consumpOur total energy consumption at Toms Group increased with the energy supplier Ørsted (then DONG Energy). Our CSR policy describes our recognition of the fact tion across the group including Poland, Germany and by 1,25% in 2018, and is now 1,9% below the total Since then the partnership has helped us achieve energy that business activities have a crucial impact on the Sweden with wind power from Ørsted’s European offconsumption in 2013. savings, by reducing energy consumption, and reduce our development of society. shore wind farms. Danish factories’ overall impact on the climate. By the end of 2018, Toms Group had a decreased emisThis is not least the case for manufacturing compaSaving of 100,000KWh sion of CO2 per MT product produced by 32,9 % comIn 2018, we initiated a new project with Ørsted with the nies like Toms Group. With production and packagIn 2018, we continued the comprehensive task of testing pared to 2013. This is mainly a result of purchasing green ambitious goal of generating comprehensive energy ing facilities in Denmark, Poland and Germany, we around 100 connections and pipelines for leaks at our energy for our Danish facilities. savings at our Danish factories. With financing and conhave a great responsibility to integrate precautionGerman facility in Bremen. sulting services from Ørsted, we are looking forward to ary principles towards environment and climate reducing our consumption of electricity, gas and district and to constantly seek to minimise our consumpEven a small leakage results in substantial loss of energy. heating by approx. 20%. tion of energy and support the development of We have started repairing the leaks and expect to save environmental sustainability along our value chain. around 100,000 KWh in total as a result of these repairs. The first part of this project involves replacing the lighting sources in our production and administration. This will produce annual savings of 1,377 GWh, which corToms Group Energy Consumption (MWh) Toms Group CO2 emissions (MT CO2 per MT produced product) responds to more than 300 families’ consumption of power. And as an added benefit, the indoor climate will 60.000 13000 be improved, which will benefit our employees and our production. 11000 Green power 55.000 Another key element in our climate partnership is our 9000 procurement of wind power. 50.000 In 2011, Toms began purchasing wind power from 7000 Ørsted’s offshore wind farms. By 2015, all electricity used at our Danish facilities has been covered by wind power. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 “Guarantee of Origin” certificates ensure the earmarking of production of wind power equivalent to the volume of Our total energy consumption in Toms Group is now Compared to 2013, by the end of 2017 Toms Group has our consumption. 1,9% below the total consumption in 2013. reduced the emission of CO2 per MT product produced by 32,9%. Toms Group A/S Page 30 Our Responsibility 2018 Most Prevention favoured Waste management The central aspects of this roadmap are our continued option We consider it highly important to minimise the environefforts within energy optimisation of our Danish factomental impacts of our waste, which is why we prevent ries. In 2019, we will initiate our sub-projects comprising Minimisation or recycle as much of our waste as possible. We focus on insulation of piping, investigation of heat pump utilihandling waste at the highest possible level of the waste sation in production areas and ventilation and steam hierarchy. projects. Reuse This means that we first attempt to prevent waste and For the benefit of both employees and the environment limit the loss of raw materials. However, as this is not we will also optimise our procurement procedures and always feasible, we seek to recycle as much of our waste handling of chemicals to ensure we act as responsibly as possible. Waste that cannot be recycled is utilised for and environmentally safe as possible. Recycling production of district heating or discarded in an environmentally sustainable manner in line with the most Last but not least, another strong initiative on our stringent waste disposal standards. roadmap for climate and environmental sustainability is our support of the important transition to green energy. Our 2019 initiatives This is, as mentioned, further strengthened in 2019 by Energy recovery In 2019, we are looking forward to developing a roadour mentioned initiative to cover our entire electricity map for our group’s approach to climate and environconsumption with wind power from Ørsted’s European ment. This strategic process will lead to an upgrade of offshore wind farms Least Disposal our group policies and identification of our KPIs and favoured targets for these important areas. option Valuable waste An example of our waste management is our use of cocoa shells. As part of our partnership with Ørsted, we use our cocoa shells, a biodegradable waste product in chocolate production, to produce district heating. The heating is then used in Danish households, thus contributing both to the environment and to savings for Toms. In 2018, we supplied 306 MT of cocoa shells to Avedøre Power Station. At the power station, the cocoa shells are used as biofuel to produce district heating. In 2018, the 306 MT of cocoa shells produced district heating equivalent to the annual heat consumption of approx. 80 Danish households Toms Group A/S Page 32 Our Responsibility 2018 Business ethics Employee Code of Conduct Our 2019 initiatives To ensure high business ethics standards in general, we In 2019, our renewed Employee Code of Conduct will introduced an internal Code of Conduct in 2017 to guide form the basis of a new learning module in our corporate us all through large and small choices in our daily life. In e-learning platform. We have 1,500 suppliers, more than 1,100 employees and custom2018, we renewed the code with inclusion of for instance topics related to our environmental responsibility and The module will be part of our mandatory onboarding ers in 100 countries. A major part of our responsibility towards all of responsibilities to ensure correct data protection. training and education for all new employees and will these people is to ensure that our relationship with them is based on be part of the mandatory training package which each Whistle blower scheme employee must revisit each year to stay aware of the fairness, honesty and high ethical standards. Safeguarding high ethical standards requires accessibilisecurity, safety and ethical standards and norms at Toms ty, credibility and trust. In 2018, we therefore established Group. a whistleblower system run by an impartial external party, which guarantees security and anonymity. Supplier Code of Conduct As part of a long value chain, our continued responsible Our approach The scheme allows for reporting of serious offences that business conduct depends to a great extent of our supOur Supplier Code of Conduct and our Employee violate the law, regulations or the Toms Group’s policies pliers’ approach. That is why the expectation to respect Code of Conduct describe our corporate approach and Code of Conduct. All reports are confidential and – if human rights, labour standards, the environment and to business ethics. requested – fully anonymised. anti-corruption is reflected on an operational level as a significant part of our Supplier Code of Conduct. These documents describe our demands and exWe did not receive any reports through this new scheme pectations of all employees as well as all suppliers in 2018. The document was renewed in 2018 with the inclusion of on ethical, moral, social and environmental responmore topics to reflect the whole spectrum of the envisibility. ronmental and social responsibilities facing all partners in our supply chain. We also chose to add a signature Our initiatives in 2018 to ensure that these docform to the Code of Conduct, which all suppliers must uments cover all relevant areas of our corporate sign when a new or renewed contract is signed with Toms responsibility and that they work as effective tools Group. for ensuring high ethical standards along our value chain are described below. Our Supplier Code of Conduct can be downloaded here. Toms Group A/S Page 34 Our Responsibility 2018 We see it as part of our corporate responsibility to be a proactive and responsible partner in our home market communities. In this chapter, you can read about our approach to and initiatives in supporting a balanced and active lifestyle and how we support especially the future consumers with the information and knowledge needed to make conscious and responsible choices. OUR CONSUMERS Toms Group A/S Page 36 Our Responsibility 2018 Our consumers Because we see it as part of our responsibility to be a proactive and responsible partner in our home market communities, we have chosen to use sponsorships and partnerships to support balanced lifestyles. And we take a special responsibility to support the future consumers with knowledge on balanced lifestyle, production chain and sustainability. Consumer education Conscious consumers are our ambition needing insight into sustainable confectionary producToms has a long and proud tradition of welcoming school At Toms we strive to reach our consumers with education tion for their assignments and theses. Successful experience boxes classes to chocolate production facilities. In recent years, strongly focusing on production chain, sustainability and In 2018, more than 200 groups of Danish school we have supplemented these visits with strong educabalanced lifestyle. Finally, we are pleased to see that a growing number of children have spent eight or more lessons in their tional material in order to equip our future consumers our consumers of all ages ask for information on conrespective schools working with this education with information on production chain, responsibility, and We consider it our special responsibility to provide future fectionary production, thereby generating a substantial concept. balanced lifestyle. consumers with the information and knowledge needed platform for having a dialogue on responsibility and to make conscious and responsible choices. Towards this sustainable production. The boxes contain cocoa and chocolate materials Additionally, an outward-oriented concept combining goal, we give high priority to continuing and developing and give access to interactive education material physical chocolate materials with an interactive educathe outward-oriented education concepts, utilising the Sponsorships supporting a balanced lifestyle taking the students through all essential parts of tion portfolio is well-implemented and brings knowledge potential to reach a large number of primary schools. We seek to support balanced and active lifestyles the chocolate production chain. As an example, the on sustainable chocolate production to school classes all through sponsorships and partnerships. This is in line with classes have worked intensively with the concept over Denmark. Furthermore, we aim to strengthen our support to the the long history of Toms Group as an active commercial of farmer training in cocoa production, supported large number of students at high schools and universities partner to a broad variety of sports. by videos and data from Toms’ engagement in Ghana. In 1955 Toms signed the first commercial sponsorship agreement becoming an active partner within football. The school teachers using our experience boxes This was the beginning of a vast array of partnerships becontinually send us very positive feedback on the tween Toms and a long line of Danish athletes. For many learning outcome for the young students, encouryears, we have sponsored sports through Toms Ligaen, aging us to continue our work. women’s handball, The Gold Bar race, speedway, as well as sailing, equestrian sports, football and golf. Going forward Olympic partner From 2019, we are planning to turn our focus towards In 2016, Toms made a comeback to the world of sports regular sports at amateur level. We are looking forward to with a five-year partnership with DIF and Team Danmark starting traditions in this field and supporting a balanced as sponsor of the Danish Olympic athletes. and active lifestyle by supporting regular sports locally on our Danish home market. During 2018, we have used this sponsorship to help Our Olympic sponsorship is a five-year deal, and we are strengthen the awareness of different sports in cooperalooking forward to backing the Danish Olympians at tion with a number of Olympic athletes. Tokyo 2020. Toms Group A/S Page 38 Our Responsibility 2018 Toms Gruppen A/S Toms Allé 1 2750 Ballerup, Denmark Telephone: +45 44 89 10 00 Fax: +45 44 89 10 99 Registered office: Ballerup E-mail: info@toms.dk Registration no.: 56 75 93 28 Website: www.tomsgroup.com Established: 30 January 1924 Financial year: 1 January 31 December
