Communication on progress 2019 1 To Our Stakeholders: I am very honored and pleased to confirm that M9 Public Company limited Reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour ,Environment and AntiCorruption. In this third annual communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication . Sincerely Yours, Shwe Koon Vice President 2 :Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and :Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HUMAN RIGHTS Our employees and all our stakeholders respect the universal declaration of human rights and environmental protection .Based on our commitments , our company is providing safe , healthy and convenient working conditions to our employees . We also encourage our business partners and suppliers to obey to Global Compact Principles on Human Rights .In our country , Human Rights is still developing .We support , collaborating each other and work happily. We have Human Resource Policies and Procedures supporting Human Rights . We consult with stakeholders , affected parties and counselor if it is 3 required .We allocate duties and protection of Human Rights within the company .We provide seminars , conferences and training belongs to Human Rights .We also have Coffee Morning Event once a month. Everyone can share their Feeling ,Experiences and Knowledge frankly and make fellowship . Our company continues to support the staff care, Human Rights the International Labour Organization’s(ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work . There is no Broken rules and Legal cases and other relevant events related to Human Rights .External Audits of Human rights check every week. 5 :Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining ; :the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; :the effective abolition of child labour ; and :the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation LABOUR M9 always obey and support the Country’s Law and Labour principles . In order to make awareness on labour rights and policies ,we have trained staff and raised human right awareness .We follow ILO Core Conventions and other International instruments . Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining . We do not have discrimination on gender , ethnicity and age .If you really tried hard you would be promoted .We report government regularly with our labour reports. 6 We also have the library for our staff . We apply various book to get the knowledge , develop reading and study habits for our staff .We also have another activities for staff care . 7 7 We do not have labour under age of 18.According to ILO’s Law we give Maternity & Paternity leaves . 8 Employees get great working conditions ,appropriate working hours, Overtime , allowance ,uniform and individual office facilities .We provide our Employees with a safe working condition by accessing fees to Social Security Board (SSB) individually form 9 company .From this, our employees have free medical coverage for every case he or she has suffered in working environment. 10 :Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; :Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility ;and :encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ENVIRONMENT We reduce using of paper to prevent deforestation. Instead of using paper we communicate and report by email ,internet mailing system .If necessary to use the paper we recorded the usage of paper by Departments. We do not use plastic bags and do not use the behavior which harm environmental issues .We use recycle bags for the environment and we also 11 clean our campus for the environment issue .It is sure that we negotiate our business partners to adhere the Global Compact Environment Principles. 12 We always donate blood to the National Blood Center Twice a year .We also donate the water purify device to the village and required regions .We have others religious affair activities . 13 Ka Htein (Religious Activity) 14 14 Religious Activity 15 15 Religious Activity 16 16 We don’t have legal cases , rulings with our environmental issues until now .Our company limited obeys the environmental rules . :Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including Extortion and bribery. We give awareness and training of corruption to raise the attitude of our staff .We strongly prohibited our staff to make company sources and documents imitation .We promote a culture where BOD ,senior management ,all employees and the whole organization are committed to be honest , integrity and preventing bribery .We M9 Public Company Limited allows UN Convention Against Corruption and Global Compact anticorruption principles . 17
