Communication on Progress June 2019 Contents Statement of continued support .............................................................................................. 2 Organizational Profile ................................................................................................................. 4 Contact information ................................................................................................................ 4 Policy commitment...................................................................................................................... 4 Focus on communication ........................................................................................................... 5 Due diligence process.............................................................................................................. 5 People in the centre ..................................................................................................................... 7 Demography and work/life balance.................................................................................... 7 Employee well-being ............................................................................................................... 8 Locals at our destinations ...................................................................................................... 9 Guest experience and satisfaction ....................................................................................... 9 Environment and climate......................................................................................................... 11 Office environmental awareness ....................................................................................... 11 Nature conservation ............................................................................................................. 12 Albatros Travel’s cruise ships .............................................................................................. 12 Animal welfare........................................................................................................................ 13 Business ethics and anti-corruption ...................................................................................... 13 Anti-corruption training........................................................................................................ 14 Albatros Travel projects ........................................................................................................... 15 Supporting orphaned children in Delhi ............................................................................. 16 Projects in South Africa ......................................................................................................... 17 1 Statement of continued support I am pleased to confirm that Albatros Travel continues to support and implement the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to all areas of concern. This COP documents how we integrate the ten principles in our strategies, policies and daily practices. Albatros Travel will continue to make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. I have been Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Albatros Travel since the fall of 2014. My husband, Soeren Rasmussen founded Albatros Travel 33 years ago, and I have worked beside him for many years. Social responsibility has always been a big priority for us. In fact, the first tours we offered were safari camping in Kenya, where the focus was on what’s now known today as “eco-tourism” – we left only footprints. Today, our focus remains the same and our company slogan, translated from Danish states: “Travel with heart, head and mind”. It reminds us of our duty each day, both as an organization and individuals, to be socially responsible. We take our responsibility very seriously and have a CSR manager, who is in charge of our CSR strategy and implementation. The CSR manager is part of our family – she is our daughter, and therefore part of the “Albatros DNA”. She is involved in all the big decisions of our company. At the compliance level, we have a due diligence process, which enables us to identify, prevent and mitigate any adverse impacts on the core principles for human rights, the environment and anti-corruption. One Albatros Travel CSR strategy is to buy locally whenever possible, to support local economy, and to educate and share knowledge. Albatros Travel arranges package tours with tour leaders, so we have an opportunity to disseminate knowledge and awareness about cultural differences and the environment to our guests. We already have knowledgeable and experienced tour leaders, but we plan to strengthen our performance further by providing more extensive sustainability training. The focus on education reaches beyond our own organization and also directs any philanthropic projects, such as the establishment of sustainable guest donation projects. As a travel agency and tour operator, one of our most considerable adverse environmental impacts is the unavoidable carbon emissions associated with our travel itineraries. In Denmark, substantial attention is given to greenhouse gas emissions and air travel, among other contributing factors, and ways to effectively climate compensate. We do know, as a society, that emissions must be reduced, but the debate continues on how. New research estimates that flights account for 2% of the world’s total greenhouse gas emissions and that the world’s largest economies, namely China and the United States, account for more than half of this figure. The remainder of the world’s aircraft consumption is thus less than 1% of the total emissions. While we cannot produce travel products without a carbon footprint with the currently available technology, we do strive to reduce our carbon footprint wherever possible. As a travel agency, we do not offer climate compensation, but many airlines do offer such an option. Instead, we refer our guests, who want to offset their flightrelated carbon emissions, to the airline’s climate compensation programs. “Compensation” refers to the guest’s option to pay an extra amount corresponding to their climate impact. The money is then contributed to a project that helps to 2 neutralize the guest’s consumption, so that one’s overall climate impact after a flight is zero. Some airlines, such as Scandinavian Airlines (SAS), offer to pay for their customer’s climate impact, if the guest is a member of their loyalty program. Even though eco-tourism has been known and practiced for many years, working strategically and holistically with sustainability on all three bottom lines is new to the travel industry and we will be faced with a challenge in encouraging suppliers to work with a focus on sustainability. The COP covers our parent company Albatros Travel, which includes our headquarters in Copenhagen, a office in China and a store in Poland. Other parts of our company have been separated from the parent company Albatros Travel into their own subsidiaries. Our cruise ship department operates now under the entity, Albatros Expeditions. This department will produce their own COP later this year. Berit Willumsgaard CEO and owner, Albatros Travel 3 Organizational Profile Albatros Travel A/S was established in 1986 by Søren Rasmussen, now chairman of the board. We provide travel packages for private guests primarily traveling out of the Danish, Swedish, Norwegian and Finnish markets, and newly also from Poland. The guests travel mainly in groups of 20-50 persons and are accompanied by a tour leader. All Scandinavian operations are conducted from the company’s headquarters in Copenhagen. In addition, small subsidiaries have been established in China, Greenland, Kenya, Tanzania and South Africa to handle local operations and destination management services, and we own several safari camps and small cruise ships, and a shop in Warsaw. The company is headed by the Board of Directors, including the main shareholder of the company. The management team reports to the Board of Directors. Our head office is divided into departments, each of which functions in relation to the types of tours and locations. Within the different work areas, there is a person with in-depth knowledge on the specific area. This ensures that our guests are being served with the best expertise available in the field. We currently employ 146 persons in our office in Copenhagen. In addition, we employ approximately 800 freelance tour leaders with Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish and now also Polish backgrounds, who work with the local tour operators at the travel destinations. On an annual basis we handle approximately 1,000 tours, serving more than 60,000 travellers, with net sales of approximately 800 million Danish Kroner (DKK). Contact information Questions regarding the content of this COP report should be addressed to: Cæcilie H. Willumsgaard, CSR Manager Albatros Travel, cw@albatros.dk Policy commitment Our CSR policy is publicly available on our websites. The policy commitment stipulates our human rights expectations of our personnel and business relations. The policy is formulated as a general CSR policy and includes environmental and anti-corruption commitments. Our Ethical Requirements (Code of Conduct), which includes human rights, environmental and anti-corruption requirements are still in the process of being incorporated in all business contracts. 4 Focus on communication Our CSR strategy have been an increased focus on communication. We focussed on familiarizing all employees with our CSR policy and projects. The company is facing a very interesting stage of economic growth and expansion, and there have been many new employees hired during this time. All new employees have a one-week rotation programme, where they get lessons on the workflow of the different departments and teams. In this programme they also learn about Albatros’ company history, and also the importance of our CSR strategy and projects. CSR is often on the agenda in our monthly morning meetings for all staff at our head office. To further involve and educate all employees in our CSR activities, our CSR manager will, upon request from the different team managers, provide training sessions at team meetings. She has been to Poland to give a CSR introduction to our Polish team there. We have knowledgeable and experienced tour leaders, but will further strengthen our performance by continuing to educate them in our CSR policy. Our tour leader coordination team hosts regular seminars in Copenhagen in which tour leaders from Denmark, Sweden and Norway participate. In these seminars, CSR is part of the agenda. As we are a travel agency, it is difficult to gather all our tour leaders from around the world at these seminars so we also update them on our CSR initiatives through newsletters. The communication focus also includes external communication with our suppliers and our guests. As mentioned above, we have finalized our CSR policy and our Ethical Requirements for our partners. Our CSR policy is available on our website, together with our CSR manifest and descriptions of some of the projects we support. Since 2014, we have communicated CSR externally through Facebook, travel fairs and by distributing small pamphlets with information on our CSR activities. This external communication focus continues. Due diligence process The information flow of adverse impacts, identified by guests or tour leaders, currently flows through both the quality department and tour leader coordination, who because of their basic due diligence training now redirect it to the CSR manager (see the figure on next page). We are in the process of implementing the direct flow from the tour leaders to the CSR manager, who then contacts the product manager to take action through the supply chain. We believe we will get the best results from letting the product managers who have the daily contact with the suppliers be the key implementing agents of mitigation throughout the supply chain. Internally, the human resources department takes care of the function of collecting and reporting all accidents and staff grievances, identifying trends and initiating mitigating actions. 5 Accidents occurring while travelling are a possible adverse impact on the health of our guests. Traveling always involves the risk of accidents, especially in less developed countries with poor infrastructure and lack of traffic regulations. Albatros Travel demands high safety standards from suppliers, which is also included in our Ethical Requirements document. In case of an accident involving clients of Albatros Travel, the company has an emergency contingency plan in place. The contingency plan delegates responsibilities between staff for dealing with the emergency situation in the best way. Tour leaders can always contact the Copenhagen office through a 24-hour emergency phone service, where our experienced staff provides support. 6 People in the centre At Albatros Travel, we are aware that our operations have an impact on many people’s lives and therefore our impact on people is at the heart of our concern. We recognize the right of everyone to work in an environment where individual dignity is respected, and will not condone any form of discrimination or harassment. Albatros has had a positive growth in the last couple of years. We had a workplace assessment of our head office in Copenhagen in the fall of 2017. We asked about job satisfaction, “About your job in general: How satisfied are you with your job as a whole with everything in consideration?” 94,5% answered that they were very satisfied or satisfied (48,6% and 45,9%). Demography and work/life balance Albatros Travel seeks a diversity of people and equal rights for men and women. A head count on June 1, 2019 showed that we had a total of 168 employees at our head office in Copenhagen. The average age of the staff is 42 and there are more female employees then male, which has been the case for many years. Presently, the CEO is a woman and the gender distribution in the management team is 45% women, which represents an increase of women fulfilling key leadership roles since last year (33%). Demographic Employees Average age Gender distribution all employees 2014 162 39 63% women 2015 145 40 64% women 2016 160 40 65% Women 2017 131 42 60% women 2018 146 40 62% Women 2019 168 42 64% Women The above table provides a snapshot of our staff at our head office in Copenhagen from 2014 to 2019. It should be noted, the total number of employees in 2019 cannot be compared to last year, due to the fact we established Albatros Expeditions (12 employees), a new entity for our cruise ship operations that is separate from Albatros Travel. With this in mind, the increase in our employees is even greater. It should also be noted, 22 of our employees are students and board members, who work on hourly employment. This equates to 146 employees on a fixed monthly salary, however not all 146 employees are employed on a full-time basis. We do offer part-time jobs for those who need less working hours to juggle family life and work life. We also have some colleagues, who have flexible job arrangements due to illnesses. 25 employees have reduced working hours, and the 146 corresponds to 139 full-time employees. We also employee 6 in China and 8 in Poland, where one is part-time employees. We try to help the struggling job market by taking in students from business programs wherever suitable. Our salaries are in line with the industry average and all employees have the right to negotiate their salaries once a year. 7 Employee well-being Albatros Travel strives to be an attractive workplace, were we focus on employee health and overall wellbeing. We have an intranet forum were all employees have a profile and access to an employee handbook. In this handbook, all of our employee policies are available, including a noise policy, a stress policy and focus on bullying/chicanery. We conducted mandatory preventive stress courses for all employees in the spring of 2019. All at management level have completed a two days leadership courses on respect and results. We have our own vaccination doctor at our head office twice a week, where our employees are welcome to seek counselling and get a general health check. All our employees have health insurance, which gives them the opportunity to get treatment at a private hospital and bypass the public waiting list. We just switched to a new insurance, where the children of our employees are also insured, and in situations of critical sickness our employees are guaranteed 80% of their salaries. We are focused on the ergonomic workspace and we have initiated a program where all employees have the opportunity to contact an ergonomist to evaluate their individual workspace. We provide computer glasses for employees in need of special eyewear. We offer our employees a warm lunch in the office canteen, where the company pays 2/3 of the price. One hundred forty (140) employees are signed up the lunch and almost 25% get a vegetarian variation. We completed an employee satisfaction assessment on our lunch arrangement in April. One hundred twenty (120) answered the assessment, which showed a general high level of satisfaction (89%), although there was a wish for more variety and quality. Considering this assessment, we raised the bar even higher on our lunch offering to focus on variation, more organic produce and animal welfare. We also get fresh organic fruit every day and special teas. Al of the coffee we provide is fair-trade and organic. We have purchased a new, large coffee machine, where all employees can make their own coffee according to their individual preferences. We have several extra staff offers at the head office, including a certified masseuse twice a week. We give economic supplement for the massages, including free time during workhours. We also have yoga classes, a choir with a professional singer and table tennis. We believe that a good social environment is very important to employee well-being, so we encourage all employees to get together at social events. These includes several Friday bar events, a summer party, a big Christmas party and now also an Easter party. Our tour leaders have their own Christmas gathering. As we are a travel agency, we live for traveling and, where it is relevant, we send employees on study trips to expand their knowledge. All employees have the opportunity to buy trips at good prices for themselves and their families, and we regularly send out special in-house offers when we have some last-minute cancelations. 8 Locals at our destinations When we talk about the ethical dimensions of travel, a priority is treating people with equality and respect. This applies to both the people we work with in other parts of the world (as well as in Denmark) and the people whose country, neighbourhood and homes we are visiting. Albatros Travel wishes to be precautionary and we have included our standpoint on child labour in our Ethical Requirements. We demand that suppliers not only assure us that they respect our views against child labour but also the respective country’s labour laws with special emphasis on minimum wages, working hours and union participation. One of our important CSR strategies is to generate local cash flow. We want to contribute to the local economy, make sure that the right people benefit from our presence and create job opportunities for locals. To achieve this, we collaborate with small local businesses wherever it is possible. We work with local agents, small hotel, local restaurants and use local guides. At our own safari camps, we employ local staff. To further strengthen these strategies for locals, we initiated a collaborating with the Fairtrade brand in 2016. Fairtrade is an internationally recognised brand and is “about better prices, decent working conditions, and fair terms of trade for farmers and workers”. We are trying to incorporate visits on Fairtrade plantations on some of our tours. In this way, we support those places that have good working conditions for their workers and we can tell our guests their story. On those tours where we already visit plantations, we try to encourage the farmers to become certified by Fairtrade, and in this way, help the community set higher standards. Facilitation of our guests’ access to knowledge about other people’s cultural life is an important part of our business. All of our tours are conducted with experienced tour leaders who generally speak the local languages and have a special insight into local conditions. In doing so, we can ensure good working conditions locally and we are able to make sure that all cultural encounters are done in the right spirit so that there is no negative impact on local societies. Furthermore, we always seek counselling and consent from locals before visiting their communities and we continue to have a dialogue on the form and frequency of visits. In this way, responsible tourism creates the opportunity for indigenous people to continue their traditional lifestyles in relatively remote areas with only little adaptation to modern economy and culture. Guest experience and satisfaction Albatros Travel’s main customer group is mature couples (60+), often retired and well-travelled. The group is, as a whole, more interested in experiencing culture and nature than relaxation. We have designed our online and offline experience to suit our main customers, by having a website that is simple, easy to navigate and search. We have always strived for high customer satisfaction and a high percentage of returning customers. We have an experienced quality assurance team that takes care of all customer feedback and customer complaints. 9 We are focused on satisfaction, transparency and ease of use in our customer experience. It started by analyzing our customer experience and creating detailed customer journey maps. Based on this, we implemented an automated customer communication flow that ensures that the customer gets relevant information at the relevant time and has knowledge of what is going to happen next through the flow of this process. We use a review system that allows us to publish authentic customer reviews directly on our website. We have partnered with Bazaarvoice and have fulfilled the requirements of the Bazaarvoice authentic reviews trustmark (http://www.bazaarvoice.com/trustmark/). Trusted online reviews give our customers unprecedented transparency and internally, we use the reviews actively to follow up on customer complaints and to improve and develop our products. In 2016, we will expand the program to cover our international Adventure Marathons. We have also improved our loyalty program “Royal Albatros” with perks and discounts for our loyal customers (+2 trips with Albatros) and expanded the programme to Poland. We have more than 30,000 members of Royal Albatros now in the five countries combined (DK, SE, NO, FI, PL). Furthermore, we are initiating programs to improve and develop our customer service team, and creating a personalised “My Albatros” aiming to make everything even easier for the customers. In 2017, we implemented a state-of-the-art IP-telephony system, with improved sound quality and customer recognition, and in 2018 we initiated the implementation of a new and improved FAQ that will help our customers help themselves and greatly reduce waiting time for our customers. Our customers’ privacy is very important to us, and that is why General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has been applied to every step where personal data is handled inside our company. We are continuously improving our processes in order to ensure our privacy policy is 100% GDPR-compliant and all personal data is secure. 10 Environment and climate As a service provider, Albatros Travel only has a small, direct environmental impact, but a more significant indirect footprint from our supply chains. Our most significant environmental impacts are those from the use of flights and cruise ships. These are impacts we cause through our suppliers mainly. We have little opportunity to affect the environmental performance of these suppliers, but have included several environmental demands in our Ethical Requirements. As stated by our CEO in her opening statement of continued support, we refer any guest, who wishes to compensate for their flight-related carbon emissions, to the airlines offering climate compensation programs. Recently, we started selling bus tours, which in some cases, yields less pollution than flight-based travel. Our biggest environmental efforts have focused on improving environmental performance in our offices and raising our guests’ awareness of and adherence to “environmental best practices” such as utilizing the towel saving programs offered by hotels, using less plastic while traveling and leaving nothing but footprints in fragile environments. We have written a list of 10 travel guidelines for our guests, which also highlights the importance of ethical behaviour when meeting other cultures. Plastic is a growing problem in the world and a big concern for us. We have launched several initiatives to reduce our plastic waste. We have stopped using plastic bottles for water on our camps in South Africa. Instead, our guests are given a reusable metal bottle to fill with fresh water every day. At the camps, we also use refillable bottles for all bathroom products. In Vietnam, we have also started giving our guests reusable bottles, but because guests visiting Vietnam have expressed hygiene concerns, this is still on a trial base. We hope to continue with this initiative and replicate the same strategy in other places. Office environmental awareness In our offices, we strive to lower our energy consumption. We have had a consultant to help us map our potential for saving energy in our Copenhagen office. We have replaced conventional light bulbs with energy saving and LED ones and put a timer on our ventilation system to ensure that it only runs during office hours. We buy all of our electricity at our head office in Copenhagen from Oerstad, who is Denmark’s biggest supplier of wind power. All our electricity is renewable energy produced by Danish windmills at sea. In our Copenhagen office, we have reduced our paper use significantly by printing on both sides. This is done automatically by all computers in the office. We have also reduced paper usage by continuing to upgrade our IT system so that we now send a lot of our letters by email. We only use recycled paper for all purposes. We sort paper, cardboard, glass and aluminium from the conventional waste. Our fruits and warm drinks are organic, fair-trade and our lunch supplier is using more and more organic and welfare produce. All of our bathroom products are allergen-free and parabenfree. Our tour leader uniforms are made from organic cotton and under good conditions in factories certified by Fairtrade. 11 Nature conservation Nature conservation is of paramount importance to us, as the company was built on the foundation of nature experiences on tented safari tours in Kenya. Over the years, we have been involved in several nature conservation projects, especially in Africa. One of these was a big elephant research project in Kenya, conducted in collaboration with a renowned scientist and Copenhagen University. Now most of our conservation efforts are initiated in South Africa, where we own several camps. The Entabeni game reserve, where one camp is situated, lies in an area of high density of cattle and crop farms, where most wild animals aren’t welcome. For instance, leopards have been shot by farmers for many years, because they hunt the cattle. Entabeni game reserve and its tourists – give the animals a safe place and is important for wildlife conservation. The goal of the reserve is to become a nature park, with the capacity to house a self-sustainable animal population. This is done by continuously expanding the reserve area and regulating the animals until the balance is restored. The reserve also focuses on endangered animal species. In a special enclosure, they have some breeding programs for rare antelopes and a successful breeding program for tuberculosis-free buffalos, which is highly needed in South Africa where tuberculosis is a threat to a lot of animals. Some of these animals are released in the reserve and some are sold to other nature reserves. Entabeni game reserve also has a special rhino protection programme. Rhinos have a fragile status due to poachers, but the Entabeni game reserve has now reached a healthy population of white rhinos. They achieved this by rearming their security system with a helicopter and extra guards. Furthermore, they take care of injured and orphan rhinos. Other Albatros camps are Khoka Moya and Mantobeni on the edge of Kruger National Park. In the future we hope this can be a sustainability project as we made in Kenya in 2006 with the Karen Blixen Camp. We have initiated several environmental actions at Khoka Moya and Mantobeni, including cost/benefit analysis on solar panels. We have implemented small solar panels on pathways. The camps are active in the fight against poachers by supporting patrols in the park and giving the rangers extra rifle training. We have also paid for a ranger to get a pilot certificate so he can patrol in flight to search for pouchers. The camps have made some boreholes for the animals to find alternative water resources, because of some extremely dry winters. Khoka Moya and Mantobeni has a community project with a small village called Welverdiend located near the camps (see more under Albatros Travel’s projects). We have also help organize field trips for children from the village, where children learn about the nature and how important it is to protect it. Albatros Travel’s cruise ships As mentioned above, most of our flights and cruises are provided by suppliers, but we also charter and own a few ships ourselves. On these ships we plan the sailing routes and we do that with a big focus on fuel consumption. Fuel is a growing financial 12 burden, meaning that any reduction in its consumption leads to an improvement in both the environmental and financial bottom lines. As stated by our CEO, our cruise ship operations have been separated from Albatros Travel into a new entity, Albatros Expeditions. Albatros Expeditions is a fully paying member of the Association of Arctic Expedition Cruise Operators (AECO) and International Association of Antarctica Tour Operators (IAATO). These associations represent the concerns and views of expedition operators and are dedicated to managing responsible, environmentally friendly and safe tourism. Albatros Expeditions is also an active supporter of the UNGC initiative and will have their own COP report. Animal welfare Back in 2015, we partnered with the organization World Animal Protection, to get help with evaluating the living conditions of animals in places where our guests are in close contact with them. This resulted in some changes in our trips, especially in Thailand where we visited some elephant camps that didn’t live up to the standards that these big and highly social animals require. Albatros Travel does not offer trips where wild animals are used for commercial entertainment, including elephant rides. We believe that all wild animals should be viewed in nature. Unfortunately that is not always possible, but we don’t want to contribute to an industry that captures wild animals for commercial use and we don’t want animals in captivity to be forced to perform for tourists. We will continue to support the locals whose livelihood depends on the tourist industry and who treat the animals well. In Asia we send our guests to those places where elephants are kept in their natural environment in the nature and where they have the opportunity to be social with other elephants. Business ethics and anti-corruption Albatros Travel has identified no major adverse impacts on anti-corruption. However, as a travel agent that provides services all over the world, we operate in countries where there are significant risks of unregistered workers, local ticket sharks and corrupt border police. Much of these relate to informal practices that are hard to change and require a long-term industry initiative to do so. We are able to show data on income and expenditure for the last six years, available upon request, and maintain accurate books and records, available for inspection. These properly and fairly document all financial transactions. We do not maintain off-the-books accounts, and any contribution to bribery and corruption is unacceptable. Internal controls are in place in order to prevent this. Albatros Travel has chosen to register their main organization in Denmark, where most of the operations work is done from the head office. This means that we pay most of our taxes in Denmark, in line with Danish law. We collaborate with Danish 13 tax authorities, when we hire new suppliers for our head office, to ensure that we do not support any illegal work or moonlighting. Anti-corruption training The implementation of our Ethical Requirements (Code of Conduct) will continuously be followed up by training of relevant employees. The primary target groups for this training are the product managers, who handle the supply chains and our tour leaders, who may come up against corrupt institutions in the countries in which they operate. We do not include tips in our prices, because we want the guest to have influence on the gratuity amount. In the written itinerary, we provide recommended amounts and, on most of our tours, the tour leaders are expected to handle gratuities. To minimize the risk of the tour leader ending in an uncomfortable situation where some guests might assume that he/she didn’t pass on all the money to the rightful receiver, we have made a tip history sheet. On the sheet, the tour leader writes the collected amounts from all guests and then writes all receivers and amounts. The tip sheet is then sent to our tour leader coordination team in the Copenhagen head office where it is checked and saved. 14 Albatros Travel projects We have been aware of our responsibility since day one, and we will continue in this way. Our approach is to focus on the areas where we can make the greatest positive impact and the locations where we are present, which allows us to oversee the projects. In return, we also receive goodwill from the community. We are not philanthropists, but we are dedicated to making a small difference. In this spirit, we have chosen some projects that are most meaningful for us. We give our guests the chance to make financial contributions to some of our local projects, where we have assessed the use of funds to ensure all donated money has the intended effect. All work by Albatros Travel in this area will always be funded by the company and never by external sources. From time to time, we collect clothes and toys, and then send them around the world. Donations are primarily made by our employees, but sometimes our guests as well. We have sent clothes and toys to Greenland, Kenya, South Africa and Syria. We have donated toys to a kindergarten in Cape Town, where both Albatros and employees contributed financially. Through the Danish, volunteer-based organization, World Children (Verdens Børn), we donated a solar panel to a school in Uganda. In 2018, we helped this organization with a donation of 100,000 dkr. Most of our donations go to developing countries, where we do business. Sometimes, however, we help smaller organizations, who need financial assistance to fight disease or help struggling populations in other ways. We have collaborated with the Red Cross on several different occasions, as well Børns Vilkår, a Danish organization dedicated to ensuring no child is abandoned by their family, caretaker or community. As stated in the section “Locals at our destinations”, we try to incorporate visits into the local communities as part of our travel itineraries. During one such guest visit to a school in a rural area of Colombia, we saw they were in need of a staircase. Until this new staircase was constructed, students had to walk down a very slippery slope. We found that the school had other needs as well, and as a result, we are now setting aside money for each guest that travels with us to Colombia and will donate these funds towards future projects benefiting this school. One the left, we are sailing clothes and toys to a small settlement in Greenland. The image on the right shows the new, cement staircase with sheltering roof in Colombia. 15 Supporting orphaned children in Delhi Albatros Travel supports the organization Karm Marg, which operates an orphanage in Faridabad outside Delhi. We purchase their handmade fabric bags as a special gift for all of our guests in India. Our guests do not visit the orphanage, but they are informed about the organization and have the opportunity to support it by donating their remaining rupees after the tour. Karm Marg was established in 1997 and started by teaching children at the local train station how to sell bags they made from used newspapers that they found in the trains. Today, Karm Marg’s Orphanage shelters 60 children from the ages of 4 to 18. The orphanage provides food, medical care, education, recreation and counselling. Karm Marg means the way of action, and in line with this name, the organization places great emphasis on the children becoming self-reliant. The organization finances about half of its expenses by producing and selling environmentally friendly Jugaad products mainly made from recycled materials like newspapers. The production is done by around 100 women from the neighbourhood, who come in and teach the oldest children how to sew. Over the last couple of years, we have also supported the orphanage in other ways. For example, one year, we bought specially made travel pouches for all our partners as Christmas gifts. We have also bought newspaper bags to hold catalogues, which are distributed at travel fairs, and toiletry pouches for other business purposes. We sent the children on their first field trip to see Taj Mahal and dine in a restaurant. We repaired their monsoon wall to provide better protection. Recently, we initiated a new project, where we purchase their handmade keychains to sell at our adventure marathons. For a number of years, we have given the children Christmas gifts. All our employees have the opportunity to participate in this effort by buying red hearts that adorn the office Christmas tree. Each heart represents one present for a child at the orphanage. By the end of December, the tree has been filled with hearts through employee contributions. Albatros has matched the collected money, thereby ensuring all the children and the staff received a present and were given a Christmas party. The Christmas heart tree and two women helping with the production. 16 Projects in South Africa Welverdiend is a small village in the Kruger area of South Africa with about 12,000 inhabitants. It is located close to Albatros Travel’s two safari camps, Khoka Moya and Mantobeni. To support the community, we hire workforce from the village and train them in the hospitality business. More than 80% of Albatros Travel staff at our safari camps comes from Welverdiend. We also pay for our guests to visit the village every week. Albatros Travel has frequently donated money to the village – primary to the schools. The village has a kindergarten and five schools, three from 1st to 7th grade, a high school from 8th to 12th grade, and a school for the mentally disabled. One school purchased new books for the library and bought a new television and a DVD machine for teaching from our donations. At another school, we built a new school building with two rooms; one for a library and one for a computer science room. We are initiating a process, whereby the guests of these two Albatros Travel safari camps can purchase educational books for the schools in Welverdiend and personally deliver them to a school during their visit. In South Africa, we also dedicate considerable focus and resources on the protection and conservation of rhinos through several projects. Sadly, rhinos have a fragile status due to poaching. Accordingly, we have implemented extra ranger patrolling around our camps and we have provided a pilot certificate for a ranger, so he can help in situations where flight transportation is needed. As mentioned, we have bred a healthy population of white rhinos at Entabeni Reserve, which we monitor closely. We are also looking at breeding programs for black rhinos. Furthermore, we are cofounders of the first rhino orphanage. Recently, we purchased a large piece of property with three small lodges near Johannesburg. On this property, we are establishing a rehabilitation center for orphaned and injured animals. We have already taken in two orphaned giraffes. For each Albatros guest that stays at any of our camps in South Africa, we put aside money for these different community projects. White rhinos in Entabeni Game Reserve and children at one school in Welverdiend. 17
