RICE A/S Social Accountability Report for the UN Global Compact 1st of April 2019 As managing director of RICE A/S I hereby confirm our continued support to the Global Compact. Our management manual is based on the principles of SA8000, and in addition to this we find the Global Compact a valuable tool in our social responsibility as well as environmental work. Odense, April 2018 Philippe Gueniau Managing Director RICE A/S Contents “People Care – We Care”.................................................................. 3 Company Facts ...................................................................................... 3 Management Tools ............................................................................. 3 From SA8000 to RICE Code of Conduct .......................... 4 Suppliers ..................................................................................................... 5 Audit process Suppliers ............................................................... 6 Audit Process Denmark ............................................................... 7 RICE Code of Conduct certification ..................................... 8 Communication .................................................................................... 9 Anti-corruption ...................................................................................... 9 CSR-collaborations .......................................................................... 10 Never Lose Hope................................................................................. 11 “People Care – We Care” Company Facts Founded: 1998 Headquarters in Denmark: 22 employees European sales offices: 15 employees Sourcing office Thailand: 7 employees Happy Cooking kitchen: 1 employees RICETERIA: 1 fulltime, 7 part-time employees Management Tools RICE A/S supports the Global Compact and uses it as a In 2002 we obtained the SA8000 certification as the first guideline for doing business responsibly. The objective Scandinavian company, and we have used it as both a checkof the UN initiative, Global Compact, is to promote good list as well as a way of dealing with the developmental probusiness behavior, and the management tool is centered on cess of our suppliers ever since. the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anticorruption. The Central Areas: Back in 2001 RICE decided to formalize the different • Child Labor initiatives within social accountability in an overall manage• Forced or Compulsory Labor ment tool. We decided to use the standard SA8000 – the international standardized code of conduct for improving • Health & Safety working conditions around the world. The spirit of this • Freedom of Association standard is close to our core business values. & Right to Collective Bargaining Furthermore, there is an audit system connected to the tool • Discrimination just as the system is based on human as well as labor rights. • Disciplinary Practices • Working Hours Since 2006 RICE has committed to apply to the Global • Remuneration Compact principles as a management tool, and as it will appear in the principles, SA8000 and Global Compact are to • Anti Corruption some extend quite close. • Management Systems 3 “People Care – We Care” From SA8000 to RICE Code of Conduct RICE A/S has participated in the work of corporate social RICE Code of Conduct is still following the guidelines of the responsibility (CSR) for more than 20 years. Since its very SA8000 standard, as well as national legislation and other beginning, this strong commitment in the ethical and social international instruments. The central areas of SA8000 are field has been a major element in differentiating the comstill of great importance to our daily work with our Code of pany. Conduct. Our system has been successfully SA8000 certified by Our RICE Code of Conduct gives us the opportunity to inBureau Veritas from 2002-2018. From 1st of January 2019 the volve ourselves in other worldwide topics, among here our RICE Code of Conduct is replacing the SA8000 standard focus on product reusability and durability, and the global system. climate debate. Our ambition with RICE Code of Conduct is to introduce We wish to pursue the economic development of RICE, our commitment and policy towards important worldwide through our customers’ satisfaction, with the greatest topics. We believe that it is possible to do business with a respect for persons and with a desire to protect the environheart and be global responsible, which is our true believing ment. and Code of Conduct. 4 Suppliers The nature of our business is to launch two major and connected to our suppliers. The aim is to continuously work two minor collections each year. When developing these on building a socially responsible business all over the collections we are working with a substantial number of world. The fully operational sourcing office has the responpermanent suppliers with whom we engage in a long lasting sibility of coordinating with our suppliers, the sampling and cooperation. handling of purchased orders, the follow-up on production, quality control processes, shipping and finally but not least Additional to this we have seasonal suppliers or one-time the audit in connection with social compliance. suppliers who contribute only in the current collection. To ensure a strong cooperation, we have established our own sourcing office in Thailand. The sourcing office is staffed with RICE employees, which enables us to be very close DK UK NL PL DE CZ PT CN IT TR IN TW TH MG 5 Suppliers Audit Process Suppliers The audit process with our suppliers is of great importance We have developed standard tools for our auditors to use to us. When we choose new suppliers, we make sure that during the audits. With a standard form the results are more they uphold ethical standards. Where improvements are reliable, and it is easier for the RICE headquarter to streamneeded, we engage in cooperations with the supplier and line the results from the audits around the world. use RICE Code of Conduct as a tool in the developmental process. When our auditor finds topics not meeting the expectations in accordance to the RICE Code of Conduct, we issue a nonWe start by taking a commitment from the new supplier conformity report. During the next visit we will then follow in relation to the RICE Code of Conduct. The managing up to control that the non-conformity has been solved. director of the supplier must sign this commitment, which relates to SA8000 as well as environmental protection and other sustainable issues. Special Audit on Madagascar April 2018 Once the production is initiated, and the first order is completed from the supplier, we have our own staff visiting the In April 2018 our external auditing company visited our supplier in order to make the quality control of products. suppliers on Madagascar together with the CEO of RICE A/S. This was an important visit, as it shows our visibility on The audit is conducted at least every second year in order production areas, which are geographically placed far away to maintain the obligations of the factory. We audit all supfrom our HQ in Denmark. Further we indicate to our supplipliers covering minimum 75% of our yearly turnover. We alers, that taking a social responsibility is of great importance ways strive to make the audit process the most efficient, and for RICE A/S. therefore our audits are carried out by our own staff. 6 Denmark Audit Process Denmark In order to make sure that we comply with our own standards we made an agreement with the external auditing company Acta Verba. Acta Verba Certification carries out an audit of RICE once a year according to the RICE Code of Conduct. The auditor goes through the following program: • Opening meeting • Walk around in the premises • Review of records • Control of suppliers • Internal monitoring • Outside communication • Management review • Closing meeting During the audit the auditor will check our audit reports from the factory visits as well. These reports will also contain a description of fields where there are room for improvement. Working Environment at the Headquarters The working environment in our Danish headquarters is We believe that taking good care of our employees is an controlled by the APV – workplace assessment. The assessinvestment, which both pleases the individual employee and ment is updated at least every three years with inputs from at the same time prevents physical problems and keep the staff. At RICE we are aware of the importance of good absence of employees due to illness at a low level. working conditions among our employees. We are continuously rearranging the workstations in order to ensure We have a health and safety committee to take care of any efficient dialogue as well as peace to work. possible issues that might be brought up by the staff. The staff select among themselves a representative and likewise Our employees at the headquarters have the opportunity to there is an appointed management representative in this join a fitness program once a week during working hours. group. A mail box has been installed for anonymous enFurthermore, they are able to book a personal massage from quiries. Once a year we conduct a fire drill for all employees, a licensed massage therapist, giving them the opportunity just as all employees must attend a mandatory guided safty to releif tensions related to office work. Employees at Bangtour. Finally, a headquarters worker representative has been kok office are invited to join a yoga class weekly. selected by the employees. 7 RICE Code of Conduct RICE Code of Conduct Certification Once a year the auditing company Acta Verba visits and perform audit at the headquarter of RICE A/S in Denmark. Every year in January the auditor will consider issuing a RICE Code of Conduct Re-certification. The Re-certification consists of two and a half days of audit at the head quarter. RICE A/S Havnegade 100E, 5000 Odense C, Denmark Certificate of Audit and Conformity Acta Verba declares that the management system of Rice A/S has been audited by Jean-Loïc Montaigne and found to be in accordance with the requirements of the RICE Code of Conduct (version 3). The certification will be reviewed once a year by the company Acta Verba. Original cycle start date 01 January 2019 Expiry date of previous cycle 31 January 2019 Recertification Audit date 25 January 2020 Recertification cycle start date 01 February 2020 _________________________________ Certification Authority 8 Communication Communication Sustainability Communicating about social responsibility is important RICE A/S will in 2019 include our own sustainability for RICE, and we prioritze to communicate this on various program in the RICE Code of Conduct Standard, including channels both online and offline. We use both our website , our plastic vision, that aims to substantially decrease the our social media channels, our newsletters and various print amount of the packaging material used for RICE Products marketing material to talk about current CSR projects and together with a vision of reusability and longevity in our the importance of taking action. products. We are now in the process of removing single-use plastics from all collections by the end of 2019 and will focus on development of even more sustainable alternatives for future collections. 9 CSR Collaborations RICE CSR Projects and Donations At RICE we firmly believe that No one can help everyone, but everyone can help someone! Corporate Social Responsibility is a part of the RICE DNA, and working actively with CSR is a big part of our ethical values. HOPE IS BRIGHT We do business with a ♥ With hope for a bright and better future… SEND ME TO SCHOOL Our wish is not only to support children in need – we want to provide them with In 2008 the cyclone Nargis hit the south hope for a bright and better future. For the second year in a row we proudly support west part of Myanmar – leaving a trail of UNICEF’s work in emergencies, and together we are making a difference for children destruction in its wake. at risk. The Hope is Bright collection consists of some of our favorite products, careBy making a range of kids products we fully selected to bring Everyday Magic into homes all over the world. raised enough money to build a school For every Hope is Bright product sold, together we donate 1.5 EUR. – these 1.5 EUR so kids could get back in the classrooms can provide 1800 L of clean water or provide 1 days ration of therapeutic food to a – improving their future chances of educhild in need. cation. The school also functions as a shelter for the entire community in case of natural disasters. CUPS OF HOPE RICE supports UNICEF’s work in emergencies. Part of this effort involves providing clean water DANISH RED CROSS to children in crisis situations all over the world. The aim of Cups of Hope is to give hope to PROJECT As a Club 10 ambassador in 2009 children in need. LITTLE BOX OF HOPE Charlotte and RICE made an all-day For every Cups of Hope set sold, together we In 2016 we supported the Red Cross and the event with über-banko, book cafe, hairsupport UNICEF’s work in emergencies with a work they do worldwide for the refugees across dressing, palm reading, massage, condonation of EUR 1,5. With EUR 1,5 UNICEF can the globe. We strongly believe in the effort of certs and delicious food stalls etc. The provide 1800 L of clean water to children in need. improving the lives of people on the run , and purpose was to raise as much money Our collaboration with UNICEF in 2017 has been the aim of the LITTLE BOX OF HOPE food as possible for Danish Red Cross. a huge success! In one year we have sold enough kit was to give hope to the people in need. We products to provide 66,000 children with clean wawished that the LITTLE BOX OF HOPE would ter for an entire month. This equals to 9,9 million litcreate awareness of the refugees and encourers of clean water! We are so excited that this great age people to take action. JHEEL JAIPUR collaboration will continue in 2018... For every food kit (6 funky foodboxes and 6 RICE entered a three year project, in colorful spoons) sold, we donated 1,5 EUR to cooperation with Danida to improve the Red Cross. conditions for the workers in the factory. Now the conditions comply with DANISH HOSPITAL SAFE CHILDHOOD SA8000 standards. CLOWNS PROJECT IN VIETNAM Environmental responsibility has also By designing a special cup and plate, We have helped sponsor an educaSPOON FULL OF HOPE II been of concern to the supplier and RICE provides a financial contributional program that teaches children We redesigned the Spoon full of Hope and this they have constructed a wastewater tion to the Danish HospitalClowns. how to tackle and avoid explosives time the sale of one spoon equaled 24 servings cleaning system reducing the environTheir task is to make the hospitalizastill remaining in the ground after the of soup. We sold 3752 spoons. mental impact. tion for kids a little easier to get Vietnam War. through. Humor and close personal The project was run by The Danish SPOON FULL OF HOPE III Our latest cooperation with the Danish Refupresence make room for hapiness and allow the kids to be “just kids”, in spite Refugee Council. Giving children in Vietnam a safe childhood was our way gee Council was yet another spoon. LAKSHYA Our cooperation with our supplier Lakof being seriously ill. We also donated of celebrating the 25th. Anniversary of With this spoon we helped provide clean water shya, started out as a three years deRICE play kits for 27 pediatric wards Convention on the Rights of the Child for 10 refugees in Africa for 28 days! velopment project for street children. in Danish Hospitals. in 2014. The goal was to build a production supporting an orphanage for street SUSBIZ INDIA children. During the project RICE SPOON FULL OF HOPE CUPS FULL OF HOPE During 2007 – 2009 RICE participated in the donated a monthly amount of financial RICE launched the gift idea, “Spoon 4 melamine drinking cups, specially Susbiz project along with one of our suppliers support and placed orders regularly. Full of Hope” in cooperation with the designed by RICE for this project. in New Delhi, India. The establishment of Lakshya secured Danish Refugee Council. The goal of the project was to develop and iman education for the New Delhi street Each spoon sold donated a cooking Every time a pack of these cups was plement social and environmental initiatives in children, as well as housing and the set to a family on the run in Darfur sold, a refugee family in Africa rethe supplier’s company and share knowledge opportunity to remain in Lakshya as and Somalia. ceived a Water and Washing Kit. about the process. employees. 10 CSR Collaborations NEVER LOSE HOPE No one can help everyone but everyone can help someone. children for severe acute malnutrition, helping them to Corporate social responsibility is part of the RICE DNA. survive and thrive. The Never Lose Hope collection consists We proudly support UNICEF’s work in emergencies, and of some of our favorite products, carefully selected to bring together we are making a difference for children at risk. Everyday Magic into homes all over the world. For every Never Lose Hope product sold, together we donate EUR 1.5. This is our 3rd year working with UNICEF – in 2017 we did These 1.5 EUR can provide 1800 L of clean water or provide “Cups of Hope”, in 2018 it was “Hope is Bright” and now 1 days ration of therapeutic food to a child in need. – for 2019 – we have made a collection called “Never Lose Hope”. Our message with this collection is to Never Lose Hope and always remember: No one can help everyone but everyone With this current project, Never Lose Hope, we aim to help can help someone. children in need. Every year UNICEF treats millions of current project 2019 PROUDLY SUPPORTS UNICEF 11 Contents Experience the universe of RICE www.ricebyrice.com Meet us at: facebook.com/ricebyrice instagram.com/ricedk #ricedk #eatdrinkboogierepeat #everydaymagic #itsaricelife RICE A/S Global Headquarters Havnegade 100 E 5000 Odense C Denmark 12
