Fast Retailing Sustainability Report 2019 FAST RETAILING WAY Changing clothes. Changing conventional wisdom. Change the world. Group Mission To create truly great clothing with new and unique value, and to enable people all over the world to experience the joy, happiness and satisfaction of wearing such great clothes To enrich people's lives through our unique corporate activities, and to seek to grow and develop our company in unity with society About FAST RETAILING Fast Retailing manages multiple brands worldwide, including UNIQLO, GU, and Theory. Our mission is to deliver clothing that enriches society and the lives of our customers. Through the business of clothing, we strive to create a better world and future. 2.13 Revenue trillion yen 6 UNIQLO production offices locations 3,445 Number of stores 612 Partner sewing factories factories 124,679 Number of employees subject to workplace monitoring As of August 31, 2018 Based on the concept of LifeWear Based on the concept Elegant contemporary fashion Simple yet edgy everyday Refined, timeless Lingerie brand featuring Superior-quality casual brand Popular specialty A social business – making your life better through YOUR FREEDOM clothes made from select fashion with original prints and with a distinguishing focus on denim brand based in based in Bangladesh high-quality, innovative, casual – discovering new materials and designs French esprit bright colors fabric, texture, and style Los Angeles essentials individual freedom What is our most important consideration right now? For me, it is to create new means for the children of today to live better, happier lives. From climate change, natural resource depletion, poverty, refugees, racial discrimination, to terrorism and regional conflicts, we face a mounting number of severe issues today. The survival of the human race itself is at a stake. There is no future for us if we continue to live in the same way we did in the past. We must change the way we think... and fast. As a leading global apparel company, it is our duty to proactively respond to society's needs and help resolve pressing social issues. At Fast Retailing, we always question what's truly right for our society and for all of our stakeholders, and execute what we believe is truly the right thing. But that alone is not enough to fulfil our corporate mission. The most important thing is to grow and to constantly challenge new possibilities. We must help make the world a better place through our own operations by completely changing the way we do our business, without being caught in conventional wisdom of the past. We remain committed to that challenge. Our LifeWear concept is a great illustration of that very commitment. LifeWear is: ・Clothing Made for All, aiming to offer ultimate comfort that enriches one's life regardless of race, age, ethnicity, religion, disability, gender or sexual orientation. ・A tool that improves people's lives. LifeWear was born from a vision that extends beyond pure fashion, seeking to help people to simplify and shape their lives. The LifeWear concept is based on an underlying commitment to CEO Letter make, distribute and sell only what is necessary. In short, to eliminate waste by using precious resources effectively and avoiding unnecessary tasks. With that in mind, we are striving to eradicate all unnecessary distribution and inventory, so that we can deliver the products that Growth and building a better world customers truly want, in a way that is most convenient and efficient for them. We still have some way to go, but I am confident we are on the right path. for the children of today. Unlocking The Power of Clothing. Our sustainability statement is based on this LifeWear philosophy. Our sustainability activities focus on six clearly defined areas: Create new value through products and services; respect human rights in our supply chain; respect the environment; strengthen communities; support Tadashi Yanai employee fulfillment, and; corporate governance. This sustainability report introduces the Chairman, President and CEO most important initiatives we are pursuing to achieve these goals. Fast Retailing Co., Ltd. Changing clothes. Changing conventional wisdom. Change the world. This is our Fast Retailing corporate statement. We must change ourselves first in order to be able to change the world. We promise to strive to help make the world a better place, beyond generations and borders, by providing joy, happiness and satisfaction through our clothes. SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Our work on human rights and the environment UNLOCKING Addressing issues common to all members of the international community, particularly human rights and the environment, is essential to ensure that Fast Retailing's activities are aligned with its Sustainability Statement. As a global THE POWER manufacturer and retailer of apparel, we recognize the impact we have on people and the planet. We uphold and respect international laws and objectives such as the United Nations Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and will proactively work toward solutions to issues facing society through OF CLOTHING continual dialogue with all our stakeholders. Human rights We believe one of our greatest responsibilities as a corporation is to respect basic human rights and ensure health, safety and security for all who work in our company and supply chain or are impacted by our business. In June 2018, we announced the Fast Retailing Group Human Rights Policy in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and We believe we can turn the power of clothing into a force for good. other international standards. The policy identifies employees, the supply chain, and customers as areas where we have a significant impact, and describes our By designing, making and selling good clothing, vision for addressing potential human rights violations, educating employees, we can make the world a better place. and communicating with external stakeholders. In July 2018, we also established a Human Rights Committee to provide counsel and oversight for fulfilling our obligations and conducting business appropriately in accordance with our Human Good clothing means simple clothing, high in quality, and built to last. Rights Policy. It's clothing that enriches the lives of people Environment who wear it by giving them comfort, protection and pleasure. We recognize our business activities have an impact on the environment. It is produced in a way that is harmonious with nature, Through making clothing and operating stores, we use resources such as raw without excessive burden on the environment. materials and electricity and produce waste and emissions, including greenhouse gases. Reducing our environmental impact and pursuing fundamental solutions to environmental issues through innovation not only reduces costs, but also Good clothing is made by people of diverse backgrounds creates new markets and opens the door to business opportunities. In June 2018, we announced a revised Environmental Policy. The new policy working with energy and enthusiasm, under conditions identifies five areas of action – climate change, energy efficiency, water where their health, safety and human rights are respected and upheld. stewardship, waste management and resource efficiency, and chemical management – and charts a course for reducing environmental impacts from our direct operations and supply chain to product use and disposal. And we will extend this same spirit to our customers and all our stakeholders, working with them to aspire to a better society where we all thrive. This is our promise: to always work toward a better, more sustainable society. Materiality assessment Six issues material to our sustainability as business strategy Create New Value Respect Human Respect the through Products Rights in Our Environment The Fast Retailing Group has announced the goal of becoming the world's and Services Supply Chain No.1 digital consumer retail company. Alongside our own growth, sustainable development of society and global environmental conservation are prerequisites for achieving this goal. As part of our business strategy, we have identified six issues that are material (important) to our sustainability Strengthen Support Employee Corporate efforts and announced a commitment and targets for each issue. Communities Fulfillment Governance Materiality identification process Material issues were identified by following the four steps below. Identify the issues Fast Retailing Sustainability Report 2019 Issues affecting the Fast Retailing Group's sustainable growth were identified by 1 referring to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), indicators used by ratings CONTENTS About this report agencies for ESG investment, the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Guidelines, and Fast Retailing Sustainability Report 2019 , published 02 FAST RETAILING WAY by Fast Retailing Co., Ltd., outlines the social and other sources. environmental responsibilities associated with the Fast 04 About FAST RETAILING Retailing Group's business, along with its corporate policies and efforts to fulfill those responsibilities. For 06 CEO Letter more information, please visit the Fast Retailing website (www.fastretailing.com/eng/) Prioritize and verify suitability 08 SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT Scope of activities covered 2 Issues were prioritized considering their importance to the Fast Retailing Group as well 10 Materiality assessment as business strategy This report primarily covers the sustainabilityrelated activities of Fast Retailing Co., Ltd., and its as stakeholder expectations and impacts. This process included input from outside subsidiaries worldwide (the Fast Retailing Group), 12 Material Issue 1 Create New Value through and also includes information about other relevant experts and directors and relevant internal divisions. Products and Services initiatives outside the Group. 16 TOPIC 1 Truly Great Jeans Time period covered Unless otherwise stated, data disclosed in this report is 18 Material Issue 2 Respect Human Rights based on Fast Retailing's fiscal year, from September 1, Select material issues in Our Supply Chain 2017 to August 31, 2018. Some particularly important content is based on the most recent information at the Following deliberations by the Sustainability Committee, six material issues were time of publication. 22 TOPIC 2 Fulfillment for all workers 3 identified. The Sustainability Committee is chaired by an executive officer in charge of Publication 24 Material Issue 3 Respect the Environment sustainability and composed of outside advisors, external and internal directors, full-time February, 2019 The next English report is scheduled for publication in members of the Audit and Supervisory Board and executive officers. It discusses the 28 Material Issue 4 Strengthen Communities February 2020. direction of and specific initiatives in the Fast Retailing Group's sustainability strategy. 32 Material Issue 5 Support Employee Fulfillment Disclaimer 36 Material Issue 6 Corporate Governance This report provides factual information on Fast Retailing Co., Ltd., and its Group companies, as well as plans and items to be reviewed as of the date of publication. The Execute action plans report also includes forecasts based on management 4 policies and strategies. These forecasts are based An action plan and multiple projects were established under the supervision of an on assumptions or judgments made using information executive director appointed for each material issue. Projects are being implemented available at the time of publication. Actual results and future business activities may differ from these forecasts with clear targets and deadlines. due to changes in business conditions and other factors. 1 Material Issue Create New Value through Products and Services Fa s t Re t a i l i n g's m i s s i o n i s t o e n a b l e people everywhere to experience the joy, happiness, and satisfaction of wearing truly great clothing. UNIQLO, our main brand, has created clothing with new and unique value, as exemplified by our HEATTECH line of functional innerwear. Aside from functionality and quality, however, we also need to help solve social and environmental issues in the years ahead. We are using our unique strengths in apparel to help make a more sustainable world. UNIQLO Men's Regular Fit Jeans are produced with a new technology that reduces environmental impacts (see pages 16-17) Create New Value through Products and Services 12 13 Material Issue 1 ▶ Washing process for a faded jeans look Activities in fiscal 2018 Create New Value through Products and Services Sustainable product development Our Jeans Innovation Center, a denim research and development facility, has pioneered a technology that cuts water [Conventional process] [New process] use in the jeans washing process by Sustainable clothing Washed using large Washed using as much as 99% and more than 90% volumes of water nanobubbles and ozone on average (based on comparison of UNIQLO 2017 and 2018 Men's Regular Fit for a sustainable society: ▶ Water reduced by new processing technologies Jeans). We also lightened the workload for employees at our partner factories by changing the manual jean distress Raising the bar on process to one performed using lasers. 3.7 These new technologies and quality and function changes in processing methods were introduced for a portion of the 2018 Fall/Winter season UNIQLO and About billion liters J Brand jeans. We hope to reduce environmental impacts further by adopting the new technologies for all (estimate based on 40 million pairs of jeans planned to be jeans produced by the Fast Retailing mind. Through strong partnerships with manufactured by the Fast Retailing Group by 2020) Group by 2020 (see pages 16 -17 ). The challenge supplier factories, we adopt socially and Clothes require natural resources: environmentally conscious production Responsible procurement of cotton, wool and petroleum to make the processes at scale. Leveraging our ▶ Target of sustainable cotton procured raw materials 100 fabric; water, electricity and fuel to turn global store network and strengths Fast Retailing practices ethical and fabric into clothing; and large amounts in product innovation, we work to responsible procurement of raw of water and energy to wash them eliminate environmental impacts from materials. during use. As a global manufacturer and retailer of our products and services. % We aim to procure all cotton from sustainable sources by the end of apparel, the Fast Retailing Group has a Key activities by end of 2025 2025. In January 2018, we joined the responsibility to use limited resources ● Adopting sustainable raw materials Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), which efficiently and to deliver products and ● Developing sustainable products educates cotton farmers on the proper services that consider the impacts ● Improving products by incorporating use of water and agricultural chemicals. on society and the environment at customer feedback We are also working to ensure the every stage – from raw materials ● Comprehensive quality and safety traceability of rayon and other cellulosic procurement until after the clothes are management fibers which use plants and wood as no longer worn. ● All-Product Recycling Initiative (see raw material. page 31) As an animal welfare initiative, we Our approach ● Promoting social business initiatives have also banned the use of real fur By procuring raw materials responsibly (see page 31) across all Fast Retailing brands. The (with concern for animal welfare, the Good Wool by Theory collection, for environment, and cotton farmers, for example, is produced in consideration example), we strive to produce clothing of both the ethical treatment of animals our customers can wear with peace of Good Wool by Theory and the environment. Create New Value through Products and Services 14 15 it intentionally uses large volumes workers. The conventional yet produce virtually no powder of water to fade and give texture process of making vintage even after two years of use. to what is essentially a finished jeans – spraying on chemicals, product. We resolved to eliminate scraping, tearing holes – is done Fostering new waste in this process. by hand, creates fiber waste, and sustainable values We set out to bring water use is not good for the environment at a global scale all the way to zero. A 10% or or workers. By introducing the 20% reduction target doesn't latest laser technology into this The work we do here assumes encourage the type of innovation process, we reduced impacts that any solutions we develop that can seriously address the on the environment and people will be used in products across issue. We knew we needed while also producing a product the Fast Retailing Group, so to gather our most advanced of consistent quality. In the we take pride in the practical knowledge. The Jeans Innovation stonewashing process used to nature of our research. We can Center is where expertise implement solutions and information come at scale that few can together, and it's our job to match. We also have realize the innovations that great support from they make possible. partner factories since We developed an we're in constant close A new washing machine technology dramatically reduces water use in the jeans washing process original washing method communication with that incorporates new them. They are very technologies into highunderstanding and performance washing can talk specifically TOPIC 1 machines. These machines about future products don't wash jeans in water. with us. These are Truly Great Jeans The core technology our unique strengths, is a combination of which we realize also nanobubble and waterless make our impact and New value borne from jeans innovation ozone cleaning. Each responsibility to address cleaning method is best social and environmental suited for a specific application, make vintage jeans, we also issues all the more pressing. so by combining them, we were switched from natural pumice Our research is just getting In 2016 , Fast Retailing Innovating to able to bring water usage very to artificial eco stones. Natural started, but we're committed founded the Jeans Innovation eliminate, close to zero. Following two years stones produce a powder to continuing the development Center as a research and not just reduce of research and development, we residue and end up as waste of great products that are truly development facility dedicated succeeded in reducing water use after just two or three washes, valuable to our customers, to to revolutionizing jeans California, U.S., where the center in the jeans washing process by as when they must be replaced. our production partners, and to production and design. We is located, has been in drought much as 99% and more than 90% Eco stones do the same job and the planet. believe that the best jeans since 2012. Water here is precious. on average (based on comparison are not only comfortable and That's why we looked at water of UNIQLO 2017 and 2018 Men's stylish but also produced in resources first. After all, the Regular Fit Jeans). factories that consider the process of making jeans requires environment and protect the enormous quantities of water. Protecting human rights of the people Every step – growing the cotton, worker safety and who make them. We believe dyeing the fabric, washing the the environment that by pursuing truly great jeans in the finishing process – Masaaki Matsubara jeans, we're helping to make uses water. The washing process Sustainable jeans production Director, Jeans Innovation Center society more sustainable. is a particular concern, because also requires care for factory Vintage finishing process using a newly Jeans research and development at the developed laser technology Jeans Innovation Center 16 17 2 Material Issue Respect Human Rights in Our Supply Chain Respecting human rights and ensuring safe and secure working conditions for all who work in our supply chain is among our highest priorities at Fast Retailing and inherent to our mission to enrich the lives of people through clothing. We value our r elat ionships wit h par t ner factories and share with them a common vision to pr oduce highqualit y pr oduc t s with care for the human rights and work environment of the people who make them. Workers at a partner factory in China that makes UNIQLO apparel Respect Human Rights in Our Supply Chain 18 19 Material Issue 2 Workplace monitoring system Activities in fiscal 2018 ▶ Respect Human Rights in Our Supply Chain Workplace monitoring Due diligence Fast Retailing monitors its partner factories regarding their management Endorsement of the Code of Conduct of work hours, payment of wages and by the supplier other labor conditions, and discloses the results. The inspections are Strong partnerships First production order performed regularly by third-party entities. When improvements are deemed necessary, Fast Retailing staff in service of human rights, Regular audit and grading of factories visit the factory to provide support. In fiscal 2018, workplace monitoring was conducted at 612 factories. safety and security Acceptable Fast Retailing also conducts due diligence for new partner factories and for workers Grade A Grade C Grade D Grade E commences a business relationship or B only with factories that pass an audit. Acceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable Within 6 Within 3 Establishment of a new hotline months months Fast Retailing has created a direct Follow-up audit hotline that allows factory workers Acceptable Unacceptable Unacceptable to report their concerns to Fast to be made following procedures Within 6 months Retailing so that human rights The challenge to avoid sudden increases in and labor issues can be identified Follow-up The Fast Retailing Group makes production volume that would result audit and remedied at an early stage. clothing in several countries and in excessive overtime hours at our Review by the Fast The hotline has been introduced Unacceptable Retailing Business regions worldwide, and our supply partner factories. Ethics Committee in Shanghai, Ho Chi Minh, Dhaka, chain stretches to all corners of We communicate closely with nonJakarta, Tokyo and other locations. the globe. We believe respecting government organizations and other For complaints made through the the human rights of workers at our stakeholders to further support these Partner factory review hotline, the first step is listening and partner factories and protecting their initiatives. We also aim for appropriate understanding the situation. A team health, safety and security is of the disclosure of information about our led by Fast Retailing's sustainability utmost importance. supply chain. and production departments then ▶ Workplace monitoring results (Fast Retailing Group, fiscal 2018) submits a request to the partner Our approach Key activities factory for correction or improvement By forming strong partnerships with ● Ensuring compliance with the Code based on the Fast Retailing Code of supplier factories, we work toward of Conduct for Production Partners Grade A 61 factories Conduct for Production Partners, sustainable solutions together. To Partnering with outside industry 233 factories international standards and local ● Grade B safeguard human rights and working organizations labor laws. This system is helping to conditions in our supply chain, ● Monitoring partner factory Grade C 229 factories improve human rights and labor issues we require all partner factories to workplaces at factories (see pages 22-23). comply with our Code of Conduct for ● Introducing grievance systems Grade D 84 factories Production Partners, which we confirm Promoting responsible procurement 612 factories ● through workplace monitoring. Our ● Disclosing key partner factories Grade E 5 factories monitored Responsible Procurement Policy ● Engaging NGOs and labor unions also requires production orders in dialogue Respect Human Rights in Our Supply Chain 20 21 Respecting human for example. Some also of labor law violations. rights and good reveal a misunderstanding Through the new hotline, working conditions of factor y rules regarding we are working with par tner strengthens wages calculation and work factories to address workers' partnerships duties. We ask the par tner real concerns and problems. factor y to make corrections or It cer tainly benefits factories, When a complaint is made, improvements, and to provide too, since learning what Fast Retailing staf f carefully workers with oppor tunities for their workers really think investigates and striving to the situation improve working and considers conditions solutions with strengthens their the factor y business. We also management have a system in a manner for dealing with that protects human rights the worker's violations not identity and addressed by Workers at a partner factory relaxing in an on-site park confidentiality. par tner factories. Some complaints Such cases are raised through examined by Fast TOPIC 2 the hotline were Retailing's Human not previously Rights Commit tee identified through chaired by a thirdFulfillment for all workers the factor y monitoring dialogue and training. Going par t y human rights exper t. program – a production for ward, we plan to review Our Human Rights Policy super visor treating workers and improve our hotline and is not simply words, with Listening to real concerns to respect human rights unfairly or miscommunication other existing systems to initiatives like the new hotline with a super visor who make it more accessible so turning our commitment into and ensure good working conditions speaks a dif ferent language, we can identif y potential risks real action. Listening to support abuse working in Fast Retailing supply chain partner factories. VOICE Putting respect for human rights into practice In its workplace monitoring improvements activities, Fast Retailing had The garment industry is traditionally people-oriented. For decades, caring for The UN Guiding Principles on already been assessing whether people has been in Crystal's DNA and an embedded attribute in our company Business and Human Rights its partner factories have a culture. People is also underlined as a key success factor for corporate defines the duty of states to protect grievance system in place. sustainability by our top management. human rights and the responsibility However, some issues could not To care for people, it is very important that we listen to our employees and identify of business enterprises to be picked up by such monitoring issues on a timely basis. By participating in Fast Retailing's hotline program, I respect human rights and remedy nor the factories' grievance believe Crystal is supporting a meaningful human rights initiative that will make our Dennis S. W. Wong violations. Corporations thus have systems. To identify such issues, factories more democratic and make respect for human rights a reality in the lives Group Executive Director and a responsibility to prevent and in 2017 Fast Retailing created a President of Knits Division of our employees. mitigate human rights violations direct hotline that allows workers Crystal International Group Limited We expect that Fast Retailing will apply this collaborative grievance system not only in their own operations to report their concerns by phone, consistently across its entire supply chain to prevent and mitigate any violation of but also in their supply chain, email and other channels. The human rights and set up a responsible procedure to provide appropriate remedies Veronique Rochet and to operate a grievance hotline was introduced at core for such violations by working closely with our factories. Global Supply Chain Sustainability Director Fast Retailing Co., Ltd. system to aid potential victims of sewing factories. 22 23 3 Material Issue Fast Retailing is committed to reducing environmental impacts across all business processes from the procurement of raw materials and production to the sale and disposal of products. We partner with suppliers and other stakeholders to eliminate waste Respect the Environment in our operations and supply chain. We also work to make sure the clothes our customers no longer need are reused or recycled. Top photos, from left: Product design meeting at UNIQLO Ariake office; cotton bolls, the raw material Bottom photos, from left: Water treatment facility for removing dyes from a fabric mill's wastewater; clothing used to make cotton fabric; chemical testing at a partner fabric mill; an LED-lit UNIQLO store sign collection box at a UNIQLO store; UNIQLO Germany partners with customers in a neighborhood cleanup Respect the Environment 24 25 Material Issue 3 Environmental targets Respect the Environment -10 ▶ Target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions at UNIQLO stores in Japan by end of fiscal 2020 % (compared to fiscal 2013; per unit floor area) ▶ 2020 environmental program targets ▶ Zero emissions of for fabric producers hazardous chemicals (reducing 15% in water use and 10% in energy from 2016 levels) by 2020 Eliminating waste to minimize our impact -15 % -10 % 0 on the planet Activities in fiscal 2018 ▶ Environmental initiatives across Raw materials production the product lifecycle ● We are working to procure all cotton from sustainable sources by yearend 2025. promote the effective use of resources The challenge and make efforts to reuse and recycle Fabric production (dyeing, ● We joined the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), which educates Businesses impact the environment our products when our customers no processing) and sewing cotton farmers on the use of water in some form. Like other companies, longer wear them. ● We began an environmental program and agricultural chemicals. the Fast Retailing Group uses energy To provide solutions to environmental at UNIQLO's core fabric mills to reduce energy and water use in to light its stores and to produce issues, we respect long-term targets Transportation fabric production. and distribute its products, emitting set by the international community ● We are reducing water and chemical ● We are working to increase greenhouse gases in the process. We and will accelerate efforts to achieve use in the jeans finishing process by transportation efficiency by also use water and chemicals to grow them through partnership building and adopting new technologies. consolidating containers and trucks ● We are making efforts to eliminate the materials such as cotton and to dye and dialogue with various stakeholders and when shipping products from partner discharge of hazardous chemicals. factories and to stores. process the fabric that goes into the organizations. ● We are increasing loading efficiency clothes we make. by using fewer types of corrugated As a global manufacturer and Key activities Stores and offices board for shipping. ● We are significantly reducing retailer of apparel, we prioritize ● Addressing climate change ● At UNIQLO stores in Japan, we and work to address environmental ● Improving energy efficiency are working to reduce energy use new corrugated board purchased and greenhouse gas emissions by by warehouses by adopting issues such as climate change, ● Managing water resources switching to LED lighting. We reached collapsible containers. resource use (e.g., energy, water), ● Improving waste management and an 18.6% reduction in greenhouse waste and chemical management. resource efficiency gas emissions (compared to fiscal ● Managing chemical substances 2013; per unit floor area), exceeding Our approach our 10% target for fiscal 2020. Product use and disposal ● We are working to reduce the ● We continue to promote the AllThrough stakeholder collaboration and use of product packaging and Product Recycling Initiative, in which technological innovation, Fast Retailing shopping bags and switching UNIQLO and GU stores collect is committed to eliminating waste in its to more environmentally clothing our customers no longer operations and supply chain. We also sustainable materials. wear for reuse. Respect the Environment 26 27 4 Material Issue Strengthen Communities As a global company, Fast Retailing relies on the patronage and support of communities all around the world, naturally making contributing to community development one of our important responsibilities. We aim to grow and prosper with communities, using our stores, people, products, Photo left: UNIQLO USA hosts a card-making event to deepen local children's understanding of refugee issues; cards made at the event were sent to displaced children and exper tise to realize a more sustainable world. Photo right: A recycled clothing donation for refugees and displaced people is held in Columbia Strengthen Communities 28 29 Material Issue 4 Clothes donated through the All-Product Activities in fiscal 2018 ▶ Recycling Initiative Strengthen Communities (Fast Retailing Group, cumulative results through end of fiscal 2018) All-Product Recycling Initiative 30.29 We have been carrying out the All-Product Recycling Initiative to provide clothing to people in need since 2001. Secondhand clothing collected at UNIQLO and million items GU stores in 18 countries and regions is donated to donated to refugees and other displaced The power of clothing 65 countries and regions people in partnership with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and local NGOs. In Japan, clothes not to create a better future suitable for donation are recycled into refuse paper and plastic fuel (RPF). So far, some 30.29 million items of for communities clothing have been donated to 65 countries and regions worldwide. Supporting social business initiatives Fast Retailing established Grameen UNIQLO as a social business dedicated to developing the garment industry and NPOs and NGOs, and various other addressing social issues in Bangladesh, The challenge organizations and individuals in ways Grameen UNIQLO, a social business a key production country. Supported by The world today faces many social that draw on our unique strengths as an Fast Retailing resources, the company challenges, including poverty, refugee apparel company, we do our utmost to performs all business-related processes, issues, racial discrimination, terrorism, support communities. from production through sales, within and regional conflicts. The Fast Retailing Bangladesh. All profits from its 15 Group's business cannot thrive without Key activities retail stores (as of August 31, 2018) are stable economic and social conditions. ● All-Product Recycling Initiative reinvested into the business. The company We believe we have an important ● Supporting refugees is also focused on improving its employee responsibility to support and develop ● Promoting social business initiatives benefits and providing student internships. communities and society at large. ● Supporting future social impact leaders Supporting children and youth Our approach ● Employee volunteering An employee visits an elementary school Each brand in the Fast Retailing Group The Fast Retailing Group has ● Empowering partner factory workers supports future generations in ways announced the 2020 Community ● Creating employment opportunities that suit the region being served and Engagement Goals as a set of draw on our unique resources. objectives for addressing social issues. In the Power of Clothing Project, for We support communities from three example, employees visit schools to perspectives: communities where inform children about refugee issues we operate our stores, communities and the role of donated clothing; the surrounding our partner factories, students then organize their own and communities providing shelter to clothing drives. We also invite children refugees and displaced persons. A shopping experience program for children to our stores to participate in shopping By partnering with UN agencies, with disabilities and work experience programs. Strengthen Communities 30 31 5 Material Issue Support Employee Fulfillment At Fast Retailing, people are the heart of our organization. We strive for work environments that respect and support individuals to foster both corporate and personal growth. We respect diversity and do not tolerate discrimination in any form, including discrimination based on race, age, nationality, religion, gender, or sexual orientation. And we strive to be fair in hiring and performance evaluations. The Fast Retailing Group employs 124,679 people as of August 2018 Support Employee Fulfillment 32 33 Material Issue 5 Support Employee Fulfillment Activities in fiscal 2018 Empowering women in the workplace In March 2015, Fast Retailing established the Diversity and Inclusion Office dedicated to reforming human resource systems and providing advice to women on how to better balance Diverse workplaces A return-to-work information session for employees on childcare leave their career and family life. Its activities include hosting the Women's Direct Meeting, an interchange between ▶ Ratio of women in management positions that support (Fast Retailing Group, fiscal 2018) female store managers, management, and outside experts; and organizing 36 Fiscal 2018 training programs for management collective growth candidates. In fiscal 2018, the percentage of women in management % positions across the Fast Retailing Group reached 36%, exceeding our Fiscal 2020 (target) 30% target for fiscal 2020. employ people with disabilities, and 30% Hiring people with disabilities Fast Retailing began hiring people with disabilities in 2001. Since fiscal The challenge support work-life balance. We provide 2012, we have nearly reached our People of diverse backgrounds work all various training programs to develop ▶ Number of employees with disabilities goal of hiring at least one person with over globe in the Fast Retailing Group. employees into future global leaders. (Fast Retailing Group, fiscal 2018) a disability in every UNIQLO store 1,540 As a basic responsibility, we comply We also actively introduce programs (excluding new stores) in Japan. A total with local laws and regulations, respect and initiatives to prevent overwork of 1,540 individuals with disabilities in human rights, and ensure safe and and enhance employee satisfaction. 16 countries and regions work within secure workplaces. We also have a By establishing wellness centers employees in the Fast Retailing Group worldwide. 16 responsibility to provide programs and and employee hotlines, we also a corporate culture where employees support employees in maintaining Supporting work-life balance are given fair opportunities, training for their physical and mental health and Fast Retailing offers various work personal and professional growth, and fair evaluations. in quickly identifying and remedying workplace issues. countries and regions arrangements to allow employees flexibility according to their job type and lifestyle and for balancing Our approach Key activities ▶ Employees using child care/nursing care work with life events. These Fast Retailing has established an ● Respecting diversity work arrangements arrangements include child care Employee Engagement Policy to ● Supporting work-life balance (Fast Retailing Group in Japan, fiscal 2018) and nursing care leave, reduced ensure that every employee can make ● Employee education and development Child-care program Nursing-care program work hours, flextime, and working the most of their abilities and grow with ● Occupational health and safety Reduced Reduced from home. In fiscal 2018 , we set up Leave Leave work hours work hours the company. This policy has three ● Fair performance evaluations and a childcare center and introduced a Full-time 584 510 33 4 pillars: equal opportunity and diversity; compensation babysitter subsidy program. Other 473 31 5 0 education and development; and ● Efforts to enhance employee Men 9 1 2 0 healthy, secure, and safe workplaces. satisfaction Women 1,048 540 36 4 We strive to empower women, Total 1,057 541 38 4 Support Employee Fulfillment 34 35 6 Material Issue Our approach Activities in fiscal 2018 Fast Retailing strives to build an effective corporate governance Establishment of a Human system. Based on a corporate auditor Rights Committee governance model, with the majority The Human Rights Committee provides of directors consisting of external counsel and oversight to the Fast directors, this system is designed Retailing Group for fulfilling its obligations Corporate Governance to enhance the independence and supervisory functions of the and conducting business appropriately in accordance with its Human Rights board of directors. By adopting an Policy. For example, the committee executive officer system, we have provides advice and recommendations split management decision-making on investigations and remedial action In addition to its goal to become the world's No.1 and business-execution functions to when a human rights violation is reported digital consumer retail company, Fast Retailing ensure timely decisions and operations. by a stakeholder through a hotline. It also We have also established various provides advice and recommendations strives to manage its business with agilit y committees to support the functions to various divisions regarding their and transparency in response to the needs of of the board of directors, including a education, awareness-raising, and customers, business partners, shareholders, Human Resources Committee and human rights due diligence activities. Sustainability Committee. We work employees, and other stakeholders. Promoting the Code of Conduct continually to ensure that all employees observe the Fast Retailing Group Code The Fast Retailing Group has of Conduct and that our internal control established the Fast Retailing Group systems are being operated properly. Code of Conduct as a set of behavioral standards for employees. To ensure Key activities widespread adoption, employees are ● Holding general shareholders required to take a training course to meetings understand the contents of the Code, ● Operating the board of directors, and sign a document stating that they board of auditors, and various agree to observe it fully. committees In March 2018, the Code of Conduct ● Promoting risk management was revised to make certain parts easier ● Ensuring employee compliance with to understand and incorporate a more the Code of Conduct global perspective. ▶ Corporate governance at Fast Retailing (As of November 30, 2018) Shareholders (General meeting of shareholders) Elect/Dismiss Elect/Dismiss Report Human Resources Committee Audit/Report Sustainability Committee Board of statutory Board of directors auditors Consult Disclosure Committee (Five out of nine are external) (Three out of five are external) IT Investment Committee Elect/ Dismiss Code of Conduct Committee Report Report/Cooperation Elect/Dismiss/Nominate/ Business Ethics Committee Remove/Supervise Risk Management Committee Audit/Report Chief Executive Officers Independent Internal audit auditors division Human Rights Committee Group officers Report/ Supervise Fast Retailing Co., Ltd. headquarters in Yamaguchi, Japan Corporate Governance 36 37 www.fastretailing.com
