Sustainability Report 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS Sustainability Report 2018 1 2 3 4 5 6 ABOUT MEXICHEM 3 OUR IMPACT 17 SUSTAINABLE 36 SUSTAINABLE 68 ABOUT 106 APPENDIX 111 SOLUTIONS BUSINESS THIS REPORT Business profile 4 Highlights 2018 18 Innovating our innovation 38 Upholding governance, 69 UN Global Compact 108 GRI Content index 112 compliance & ethics commitment Message from 7 Business 20 Future fitting to support 40 GRI Data tables 117 the Chairman performance urbanization Maintaining product safety 73 Assurance statement 137 Message from 11 Sustainability 28 Everywhere in 49 Empowering our people 76 the CEO framework healthcare Protecting 85 Our value chain 14 Sustainability 33 Precision agriculture 53 the environment priorities for greater yields Programs for local 94 Mitigating climate change 59 impact Helping solve water 64 challenges Mexichem S.A.B. de C.V. is a global provider of products and solutions inspired to enhance the way we live and work. Through our market-leading brands sold in more than 100 countries, we support multiple industries including construction, 1 infrastructure, agriculture, health, transportation, data communications, energy and petrochemicals. ABOUT Over more than 50 years of innovation and acquisition, we have grown to become one of the largest global companies headquartered in MEXICHEM Latin America, with a strong record of sustainable value creation. We are traded on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) and included in the BMV Sustainability Index as well as the FTSE4Good Emerging Index. 3 ABOUT MEXICHEM Business profile Operations in 41 countries Sales in more than 100 countries 137 19 2 US $7.2 billion +22,000 Production plants R&D labs Fluorite mines Consolidated annual revenues employees Note: all figures as of December 31, 2018. 4 ABOUT MEXICHEM Our market-leading brands and products One of the most cost-efficient A global leader in precision One of the world’s largest PVC producers in the world and irrigation and digital farming. producers of plastic pipes and the fifth largest producer of PVC fittings. resin worldwide. Owner of Las Cuevas mine in San One of the world’s largest A leading producer of conduits Luis Potosí, México, the biggest specialty PVC resins producers. for data and pressure pipes in single producer of fluorspar in the USA. the world. Klea® Refrigerants Medical Propellants 5 ABOUT MEXICHEM Our mission and vision Vision Mission To be respected and admired globally as a leading We transform chemicals and materials into innovative industrial company that delivers maximum positive products, services and solutions for diverse sectors. impact by contributing to progress and improving By focusing on operational excellence and market people’s lives. needs, we generate ongoing Total Value for customers, employees, partners, shareholders and the communities in which we operate. Our values Safety Innovation Responsibility The health and safety of our people are our We seek to continually drive innovation with our We act responsibly and fairly in the communities priority. We strive to ensure safety at our facilities, products, processes and solutions and generate a where we do business. in the communities in which we operate, and for positive impact on the market and industry. the environment. Commitment Integrity Results We are dedicated to teamwork and a focus on We are committed to being an ethical, honest, We believe that operational and financial efficiency achieving shared goals in order to exceed the and trustworthy company that treats employees and excellence are the foundation of our ability to expectations of our clients and maintain our in an appropriate and respected manner. deliver positive results, sustainable growth and commitments to our partners, employees, and the products that make a difference. communities of which we are part and in which we operate. 6 ABOUT MEXICHEM Message from the Chairman Dear Stakeholders, Mexico’s former ambassador to the United Kingdom and Head of the Federal Tax Authority; I am pleased to report that last year our company and María Teresa Arnal, former CEO of Twitter not only continued to grow profitably, but to evolve Latin America and current CEO of Google Mexico. in ways that I am confident will make our strong, We also added to our Netafim board, welcoming profitable growth sustainable well into the future. our new partners from Kibbutz Hatzerim in Israel: Eli Bensimon, Tzvika Barkai, and Gilad Winkler, The year 2018 was dynamic and historic for and adding independent directors Jean Carlos Mexichem, starting with an unexpected, but Angulo, formerly with Lafarge; and Anil Menon, ultimately smooth, and very successful, transition formerly with Cisco. These appointments were to a new CEO. The selection of Daniel Martínezdesigned to enhance the diversity of thought, Valle, formerly the CEO of Kaluz, demonstrates experience, capabilities and professional networks both the depth of our talent pool and the efficacy that are needed to guide our company. of our governance process. That we executed the management transition while closing the largest When Daniel became our CEO, he launched a acquisition in Mexichem’s history, of the Israelcollaborative exercise among our company’s based Netafim, reveals the underlying strength of leadership to decode and express our the company. purpose and values; not just who we are, but who – and what – we want to be in As Chairman, one of my most important the coming decades. Because we have responsibilities is assuring we sustain world-class evolved so rapidly over the last years, governance, starting with the best people we can we needed to step back and carefully attract to our boards. We continued to strengthen assess the risks and opportunities in Mexichem’s board by adding Alma Rosa Moreno, our portfolio and in our organization. 7 ABOUT MEXICHEM Message from the Chairman * Business groups included as “Fluent” for financial reporting purposes. By year’s end, the exercise positioned us to better One specific result of the work Daniel guided last regions, enhancing our resiliency, and improving align our possibilities with our aspirations and to year was to reorganize the company into five our health and safety performance. understand more clearly our strategic options. We businesses, each with a clear mission, and each want to help make the world more sustainable and with the resources to become more focused, more At the same time, we remain committed to our more livable, while consistently creating value for nimble and closer to our customers. The results investment grade rating, having strengthened our our shareholders. I am now even more confident are already evident: we are developing new already solid balance sheet and enhanced our that we can do both. products and solutions, expanding into frontier capacity to generate free cash flow. 8 ABOUT MEXICHEM Message from the Chairman Global share (%) of GDP PPP S O U R C E S : I M F, S t a n d a r d C h a r t e r e d As a global company, Mexichem lives and operates in an ever more complex, intertwined 40% Led by China’s meteoric DEVELOPING ASIA growth, Asia’s share of the marketplace. The very nature of our business E.U. Includes China +25.2 PP global economy has rocketed up to 34%. With countries like requires us to understand risk and manage 30% Includes U.K. India and Indonesia rapidly urbanizing, this trend is likely uncertainty and to do so with our eyes wide to continue. U.S.A. open, with a constant assessment of strategies, 20% scenarios and opportunities, while striding -13.9 PP The U.S. and E.U. accounted forward to become purpose-driven and future fit. -6.6 PP for more than half of the global economy in 1980. Today, LATAM they combine for 31%. 10% Includes Caribbean -4.8 PP From a worldly perspective, these are unusual Sub-Saharan MENA -2.1 PP AFRICA times. On the one hand, global growth has been +0.6 PP 0% substantial (led by U.S. GDP growth in 2018 of 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 more than 3%), interest rates remain near historic lows and inflation is quiescent. On the other hand, political uncertainties make it difficult to and Brazil who came from outside the traditional continue to drive global economic growth in the project economic and social policies, while trade policy consensus. Only time will tell whether new coming years. That has practical implications for policy swings tend to unsettle financial as well approaches, particularly in the Americas, will do our company. We need to expand our presence in as goods markets. What is more, central banks a better job of creating the sustainable, equitable Asia. seem increasingly nervous about the coming growth that our societies need. years. Almost every Chairman believes that their stock Meanwhile, Asia as a whole continues to power price is undervalued, and I am no exception. In In too many countries, the politics of extremes ahead, even as China adjusts to a lower-thanmy judgement, there is misperception about our have squeezed the center. This has contributed historical growth path. While that country needs exposure to non-specialty plastics, and to Mexico. to societal discomfort in France, a drag on the UK to cope creatively with the pressures of too much In fact, we are quite diversified. In 2018, 90% of economy from Brexit reactions, the empowerment debt, top heavy public enterprises, and trade and our sales and 80% of our EBITDA were produced of new parties in many European countries, and investment pressures from the U.S. and Europe, and sold outside of Mexico while non-specialty the election of presidents in the U.S., Mexico the odds are high that the region in its entirety will plastics accounted for 13% of total revenues. 9 ABOUT MEXICHEM Message from the Chairman We can and will do a better job of simplifying and and openness to new ideas. Our people are the explaining our business, but communication is foundation of our culture and the embodiment of only part of the solution. It is our responsibility to our values. Together, we are building a company evaluate alternatives to unlock underappreciated that has the capacity and the will to address some value, and we are continually doing so. of the world’s greatest challenges in ways that will benefit all our stakeholders. Finally, I want to thank the entire Mexichem team for their dedication, drive, commitment I would also like to thank our investors and all our stakeholders. Your trust, support and constancy 2018 over the years have helped us become the company we are today, and the company we can surely be tomorrow. 1 Europe 37% North America 20% JUAN PABLO DEL VALLE PEROCHENA CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Sales by region Mexico 10% Others 13% South America 20% 10 ABOUT MEXICHEM Message from the CEO Dear Stakeholders, supply water both above and below ground in cities, reducing leakages, and in turn, making buildings Reflecting on my first year as CEO, I want to more sustainable. We also make buildings safer by thank you for your commitment and investment being the world leader in flame retardant solutions for in Mexichem. We are extremely proud of what building wire and cables. In data communications, we have accomplished in this time and we have our conduits carry fiber optic cables as part of the never been more optimistic about the future of our expansive rollout in the U.S. of 5G data to the home. Company. In addition, we are developing a new generation of flexible PVC resins that are safer, longer lasting and Atop our list of goals is to align our businesses to use less energy to produce end products. And some address many of the world’s biggest challenges, 100 million asthmatics breathe easier now thanks to such as ensuring sufficient water and food the use of our fluorine-based propellants in medical resources. As an example, our Netafim business inhalers. The trust of our customers is fueling results won four major community irrigation projects in of our own. India, which will bring precision irrigation for the first time to 60,000 farmers in more than For 2018, we’re very proud to highlight our four 100 villages and will cover more than 55,000 consecutive quarters of double-digit growth in hectares. Without these projects in place, two revenue and consolidated net and majority income. and a half times more water would be needed For the full year, revenue increased 24% year over to produce the same crop yield. This kind year from $5.8 billion to $7.2 billion and EBITDA of water savings from just four community increased 26% year over year from $1.1 billion to irrigation projects is equivalent to the yearly $1.4 billion. As a result of our strategy over the past water consumption of half a million people. few years, our return on invested capital (ROIC) now exceeds our weighted average cost of capital We are also proud of how we help manage and (WACC) and continues its positive trend, reaching 11 Photo courtesy of Expansión magazine ABOUT MEXICHEM Message from the CEO 9.2% at year’s end from 6.5% in 2015 (adjusted for and bottom line. It has truly proven to be a One of the greatest privileges I have as CEO is continuing operation in order to make it comparable transformational acquisition for us and has witnessing firsthand the incredible impact our with the 2018 ROIC). We also continue to show a significantly increased our portfolio of specialty solutions are having on people and organizations solid balance sheet and strong cash generation, products. It has also expanded our global footprint around the world, from the individual farmer who which increases our confidence in the resilience by strengthening Mexichem’s presence in key is able to apply precision agriculture to increase of our business model. Also in 2018, the Ingleside growth markets such as the U.S. and India, while crop yields, to entire cities like Cape Town in South Cracker operated for its first full year. Envisioned opening up new markets including the Middle East Africa that have embraced our water management more than five years ago, the strategic project and Africa. solutions to help adapt to a changing climate. pushes us to the left of the PVC global supply curve. The 50/50 JV with OxyChem was ready on In all our businesses, we are transitioning to a Increasingly, our solutions incorporate real-time time and on budget. returns-driven model from a history of mergers and data. Launched in May, NetBeat™ by Netafim is acquisitions, and from a manufacturing-focused an “all in one” platform that enables farmers to This year, we added sales revenue of Israeli company to one that is much more customeroptimize their irrigation and fertigation, based on company Netafim into our consolidated numbers, centric. These moves should continue to drive a sophisticated analysis of real-time data from which significantly contributed to both our top better ROE and ROIC going forward. sensors in the field, external sources and dynamic crop models. All this is done using an intuitive Cash cost per ton $1,400 interface from the farmer’s smartphone or tablet. $1,300 North America Avg & $1,200 New plants PlasticRoad by Wavin is the world’s first bicycle with Cracker today $1,100 More cost competitive $1,000 West path made of recycled plastic. Piloted in September $900 Europe ESTIMATED PVC $800 Avg in the Netherlands, the pathway features sensors GLOBAL SUPPLY COST CURVE $700 that monitor temperature, usage and durability. $600 While tested for cyclists, we are considering far $500 $400 broader commercial applications such as parking $300 lots. The innovative material is expected to be three 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 35,000 40,000 45,000 50,000 55,000 60,000 65,000 70,000 times as durable as asphalt and 70 percent faster to Cumulative capacity (000 tons) Source: Mexichem internal analysis. Each point of the curve represents a plant of the global PVC production. install. 12 ABOUT MEXICHEM Message from the CEO Along our own path to become a purpose-driven, data privacy, anti-bribery and anti-trust. This training future fit organization, Mexichem is giving back to not only aims to reduce risks, but to actually provide the world in other ways as well. Sustainability is a our employees with tools on how to deal with ethical critical goal, and we’re working with governments, dilemmas. the private sector and local nonprofits around the world to help bring about a more livable future. As For more than five decades, our people have an example, we are now reusing more than 75% of helped keep Mexichem stay focused on serving our water at our plants and aim to boost that to 87% customers and enriching people’s lives. Recently, by 2020. In 2018, we joined the UN Global Compact, we surveyed our employees and results showed an which encourages businesses worldwide to adopt impressive 86% of our employees feel “engaged, sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to enabled and energized”. 1 report on their implementation. Having spent much of this past year traveling to The safety of our people is paramount to us. We meet with both customers and employees, I return are working globally and across all our businesses at once energized and humbled. And I look forward to ensure that every day, each one of our 22,000 to what we can do to keep having the positive Mexichem employees returns home safely. Mexichem impact we’re having on the world – one project at is also fully committed to fostering a culture of integrity, a time. transparency and compliance. We are launching DANIEL MARTÍNEZ-VALLE a new, improved Whistleblower Line for managing CEO effectively all concerns in our Company throughout the world. We are also dedicating resources to train our employees on global compliance issues such as 13 ABOUT MEXICHEM Our value chain starts with product development and progresses through manufacturing and supply Our to our customers. We are seeking ways to increase the circularity of our products and services. Most value chain of our raw materials are sourced through vertical integration, and our many factories around the world are in constant collaboration to optimize the flow of materials between plants. 14 OUR VALUE CHAIN SOURCING In-house mining or sourcing of intermediates DISTRIBUTION used in our production PRODUCTION Global distribution DEVELOPMENT processes or sold to third Manufacturing resins, Ongoing R&D in four parties as raw materials. network, using own fleets POST-USE compounds, pipes, and third-party carriers, Innovation Centers to Procurement of Wherever possible, plasticizers, geotextiles, optimizing local sourcing develop solutions to polyethylene, take-back and and other products in 137 as far as customer needs and polypropylene, sulfur and recycling or plants in 41 countries for a possible. improve current ethane as raw materials up-cycling. range of uses across products. for our industries. production. APPLICATIONS IN A RANGE OF INDUSTRY SECTORS CONSTRUCTION DATACOM INFRASTRUCTURE WATER AND AGRICULTURE HEALTHCARE SANITATION FOOD AND BEVERAGE 15 OUR VALUE CHAIN 16 2 OUR IMPACT 17 OUR IMPACT 18 OUR IMPACT 19 OUR IMPACT Our business strategy Business Mexichem’s business strategy emphasizes the performance importance of being a vertically integrated company, with a focus on specialty products. Our aim is to reduce the volatility of our raw materials, enabling us to focus on manufacturing and marketing products, services and solutions with greater profitability and added value for our customers. 20 OUR IMPACT Business performance Mexichem has grown through strategic acquisitions, enabling us to consolidate and expand our leadership across our value chain and maintain a presence in international markets, closer to our customers around the world. Mexichem is driving a global growth model that will help consolidate the global competitiveness of our Fluor and Vinyl Business Groups and boost our Fluent Business Group through sector-driven specialization in Building and Infrastructure (Fluent Europe and 2 Fluent LatAm -Wavin and Amanco-), Datacom (Dura-Line) and Precision Agriculture (Netafim). Our intent is to maximize capacity to improve margins and boost organic growth, as well as develop new markets. With an emphasis on driving collaborative developments and synergies across our businesses, optimizing the way we utilize our resources, including recent acquisitions, we expect to be in a stronger position to establish stronger, long-term relationships with strategic customers and meet their product needs effectively. 21 OUR IMPACT Business performance BUSINESS PERFORMANCE We remain strongly committed to our investmentgrade rating, and through a continued effort to In 2018, Mexichem started its transformation to strengthen our balance sheet, have been executing become a more customer-centric organization. our deleveraging strategy, reaching 2.05x net debt This shift will be an important component of to EBITDA ratio at the end of Q4 2018. Mexichem’s business operations in 2019. During 2018, Mexichem’s Fluent Europe (Building Throughout 2018, Mexichem’s 22,000 employees and Infrastructure Wavin), and U.S. & Canada have collaborated with our customers to address (Datacom Dura-Line) divisions exceeded some of the world’s most pressing challenges. expectations, and although Fluent LATAM faced We continue to seek new opportunities to deliver market challenges mainly in Colombia we have business growth while helping improve the quality been seeing signs of recovery in Brazil and Mexico, of life for millions of people around the world. at a time when we continue to successfully integrate Netafim. In early 2019, Mexichem’s Vinyl business We recently celebrated the anniversary of is expected to continue working in an environment Mexichem’s game-changing acquisition of Netafim with a constrained ethane supply and an excess and continue to appreciate the value this new supply of caustic soda, while year-to-date PVC business brings to our group. Today, Netafim is an prices have been increasing. Mexichem’s Fluor integral part of Mexichem’s Precision Agriculture business expects a moderate growth path after Business, helping farmers maximize crop yields an extraordinary 2018. During 2019, Mexichem while reducing the consumption of resources Fluor will experience a more challenging year, with its digital farming solutions. Mexichem’s with the stabilization of the refrigerant markets in Precision Agriculture business also partners with Europe associated with difficult market conditions, governments to help improve the livelihoods Mexichem’s EBITDA grew by 26% in 2018, affecting the supply-demand dynamics of the of rural farmers with the latest in smart drip and fulfilling our commitment to secure EBITDA growth F-gas quota system, and better market conditions micro-irrigation technologies. between 25-30% at year-end on a reported basis. in our upstream businesses. 22 OUR IMPACT Business performance NET SALES 2018 2017 VARIATION In 2018, consolidated sales increased by 24% compared to 2017, to $7.2 billion. This increase (Figures in USD million) was mainly the result of (1) integration of Netafim into the consolidated results, (2) higher prices of Net Sales 7,198 5,828 24% refrigerant gases and (3) healthy sales growth in the Fluent Business Group in the U.S. and Canada. Cost of sales 5,261 4,375 20% Gross profit 1,937 1,453 33% COST OF SALES Operating expenses 1,002 745 35% Our cost of sales increased by 20%, from $4.4 billion in 2017, to $5.3 billion in 2018. This increase Operating income 935 708 32% was mainly the result of the integration of Netafim Net financial expenses and 284 176 62% in the consolidated results of Mexichem, as well variation in the exchange rate as higher volumes of sales in our Fluor Business Group and Fluent U.S. and Canada (Datacom) Income tax 195 178 10% and Fluent Europe (Building and Infrastructure Income from continuing 460 357 29% Wavin-) business units. operations Consolidated net income 483 214 126% GROSS PROFIT Our gross profit increased by 33% from $1.5 billion in 2017, to $1.9 billion in 2018. Our gross margin, OPERATING EXPENSES in the consolidated numbers of Mexichem, (2) which is calculated by dividing gross profit by net provision of CADE and (3) expenses related to the Our operating expenses increased by 35% from sales, increased from 25% in 2017, to 27% in 2018. acquisition of Netafim Ltd. Our operating expenses $745 million in 2017, to $1 billion in 2018. This This expansion was mainly generated in our Fluor represented 14% of our net sales during 2018, increase is the result of (1) integration of Netafim Downstream Business Unit. compared to 13% in 2017. 23 OUR IMPACT Business performance NET FINANCIAL EXPENSES AND VARIATION IN THE EXCHANGE RATE Our net financial expenses and variation in the exchange rate increased by 62%, from $176 million in 2017, to $284 million in 2018. The increase is due to (1) an increase in interest expenses mainly related to the issuance of the $1 billion bond in September 2017 to finance the acquisition of Netafim, as well as consolidated interest in 2018, (2) integration of Netafim in the consolidated numbers of Mexichem, (3) a negative effect on the 2 monetary position from our Venezuelan operation, and (4) an impact related to the valuation at market CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME prices of a financial instrument associated with the acquisition of Netafim. Consolidated net income increased by 126% from $214 million in 2017, to $483 million in 2018, due to the factors described above. When INCOME TAX we adjust for discontinued operations in the PMV Our income taxes amounted to an expense of operation, net profit grows by 29% from $357 $195 million in 2018 compared to $178 million in million in 2017, to $460 million in 2018. Majority 2017. This increase was mainly due to a change net income increased by 83%, from $194 million in the mix of Mexichem subsidiaries that generate in 2017 to $355 million in 2018, when we adjust profits and those that generate fiscal losses. This for the participation of Mexichem (55.91%) in the effect was offset by the deferred tax benefit caused discontinued operation in PMV, the majority net mainly by the reduction in local tax rates in our profit would have grown 25% from $274 million in most relevant markets. 2017 to $342 million in 2018. 24 OUR IMPACT Business performance Results by Business Group 12% 26% 31% 38% Sales by Business EBITDA* Group* 57% 40% *After eliminations (eliminations were 176 million in the Vinyl BG) *Figures are before intercompany eliminations. Vinyl Fluent Fluor Vinyl Fluent Fluor 25 OUR IMPACT Business performance Results by Sales increased by 6% from $2.3 billion in 2017 to Vinyl Business Group $2.5 billion in 2018 VINYL BUSINESS GROUP In 2018, Vinyl Business Group sales increased by Sales reached $4.1billion 6% from $2.3 billion in 2017 to $2.5 billion in 2018, reflecting favorable market price conditions during the first nine months of the year in both PVC and Fluent an increase of 35% compared caustic soda, mainly due to the increase in oil to the same period last year prices and supply (environmental) restrictions in 2 Europe and Asia, when comparing 2018 to 2017. EBITDA increased 10% to $557 million from the $507 million reported in 2017, with an EBITDA Fluor margin growth of 74 bps to 22.6% from 2017’s 21.9%. Increased sales by 23% to $837 million in 2018 FLUENT BUSINESS GROUP compared to $681 million in 2017 In 2018, sales reached $4.1 billion, an increase of 35% compared to the same period last year. Key factors contributing to this growth include the FLUOR BUSINESS GROUP consolidation of Netafim, double-digit growth in Net sales increased 23% to $837 million in 2018 the U.S., Canada and AMEA (Datacom – Duracompared to $681 million in 2017. This increase Line), and mid-single digit growth in Europe was mainly the result of higher prices of refrigerant (Building and Infrastructure – Wavin). EBITDA gases in the U.S. and Europe. EBITDA increased increased by 37% in 2018 to $527 million, with an by 40% in 2018 to $362 million, with an implied implied EBITDA margin of 12.9%. EBITDA margin of 43.3%. 26 OUR IMPACT Business performance Growth and profitability, part of our business strategy Revenues EBITDA ROIC USD million USD million $7,198 9.2% $1,397 8.2% $5,828 $5,485 $5,584 $1,106 6.7% $5,129 $5,344 6.5% $901 $895 $895 $814 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 27 OUR IMPACT In 2018, we developed an overarching Sustainability Policy that confirms our commitment to sustainable value creation and details our commitments in the areas of our operations, products, people and communities. View our policy here. Sustainability framework SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS STRATEGY We have identified several macro-economic and social trends that define the current and future markets in which we operate. We prioritize solutions that leverage our extensive technical skills and expertise to deliver a response to these trends. 28 OUR IMPACT Sustainability framework Urbanization Digitalization • Sustainable construction MACROTRENDS MEXICHEM • Broadband internet SOLUTIONS Food shortages • Healthcare Population growth • Energy Efficiency • Water management: • Access Water scarcity Climate change • Irrigation • Resiliency The core principles that drive our strategic approach are: PEOPLE Our more than 22,000 employees around the world PLATFORM FOR VALUE-ADDED GROWTH are our most valuable competitive advantage, 2 We leverage our size and global presence to provide value-added solutions in growing markets. and it is through them that the company operates and transforms every day. They make it possible to achieve our objectives, and their professional development is essential for a business that CUSTOMER-CENTRICITY requires a highly qualified workforce, adaptability We understand our clients’ changing needs and to change and constant reinvention. priorities, and work together to evolve our range of solutions and capabilities. RESPONSIBILITY We create value providing a safe and empowering INNOVATION environment for our employees, being good stewards Innovation is key to guaranteeing our future growth, of our products and of shared natural resources, maintaining our leadership position in the industry working as a force for good in the communities in and opening new markets. which we operate and creating financial returns for our shareholders. 29 OUR IMPACT Sustainability framework GLOBAL SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL NEEDS we undertook in 2018 that were designed to guarantee that this will remain the case. In 2018 The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals we became a signatory to the United Nations (SDGs) represent a comprehensive set of global Global Compact (UNGC), committing to uphold the social and environmental challenges we must all Compact’s 10 principles of responsible business. address to achieve global, inclusive prosperity by While these principles are not new to Mexichem, 2030. The SDGs, which were ratified by the UN our UNGC membership publicly demonstrates our General Assembly in September 2015, represent a commitment and reinforces our actions. 2 roadmap for action by governments, businesses and communities. At Mexichem, we have identified six out Our Sustainability Policy reflects our commitments of the 17 goals which we can have the greatest impact to lead and support responsible value chains that in helping achieve, thanks to our global footprint and work together to build a sustainable world. We wish business expertise. to deliver profitable, long term business performance while optimizing the use of natural resources so we RESPONSIBLE APPROACH TO BUSINESS can do more with less, promoting innovation for At Mexichem, we have always striven to do business safe and valuable product development, fostering in an ethical and responsible manner. In the second a customer-centric approach and investing in our half of this report, we provide examples of activities people and the communities in which we operate. 30 OUR IMPACT Sustainability framework WHAT WE ARE DOING READ MORE IN THESE SECTIONS Our major contribution to advancing global food security is through our drip irrigation systems that allow farmers to grow Precision agriculture for more with less. Through our Precision Agriculture business, we are the leading global provider of drip irrigation solutions greater yields that help grow more food more efficiently, using less water and other scarce resources. We are a global provider of solutions to the healthcare sector. Our fluorine-based products supply most of the world’s Everywhere in propellant gases for metered dose inhalers, and our PVC resins are used in applications across the full spectrum of healthcare healthcare devices, infrastructure and facilities. Our extensive portfolio of products, services and technology for the planning, design, construction, monitoring and maintenance of water management and sewerage systems guarantee the most efficient use and distribution of water for Future fitting to residential, industrial, and municipal use. We develop innovative solutions for urban drainage and rainwater harvesting that support urbanization enable better adaptation to climate change. We engage in social responsibility projects with our communities through Helping solve initiatives such as Water Funds in Latin America, which seek to protect and preserve water sources and river basins. We water challenges have adopted efficient water consumption practices in our operations and reuse 81% of our water. 31 OUR IMPACT Sustainability framework WHAT WE ARE DOING READ MORE IN THESE SECTIONS We are a fair and decent employer to around 22,000 direct employees around the world. We offer employment opportunities to members of communities where we operate, seeking to improve their quality of life and contributing to Empowering our economic development in the communities where our plants are located. We also provide our employees with the people conditions and environment that they need to reach their potential through our talent development and leadership programs. Our products contribute to the development of reliable, resilient, and quality infrastructure that promotes economic Innovating our development and human wellbeing. We offer soil management solutions for the structural improvement of road innovation infrastructure works, which significantly reduce the use of inert materials, such as mined gravel, and increase the quality Future fitting to and lifecycle of projects. support urbanization We produce the materials that contribute to better buildings. PVC, with its strength and durability, is a long-life, Future fitting to low-maintenance building material. We offer solutions for intracity and intercity fiber optic cable installation, connecting the support urbanization world and improving access to high-speed information and high-performance technologies. Mitigating climate change 32 OUR IMPACT We have identified 14 material priority impacts that inform our sustainability approach and provide the basis for our sustainability reporting. These topics were identified through analysis of a range of factors including: • A review of global priorities expressed in the UN Sustainability Sustainable Development Goals. priorities • The 10 United Nations Global Compact Principles. • Our business strategy and goals. • The expectations of our primary stakeholders, as expressed in our interactions with them throughout the year. Following this analysis, the following list of material topics was reviewed and approved by our Senior Executive team. 33 OUR IMPACT Sustainability priorities PRODUCT SAFETY Material Topic GRI Standard Disclosure More details / Page number Sustainable innovation GRI 203: Indirect economic 203-2 Innovating our innovation / 38 impacts 2016 Customer health and GRI 416: Customer health and 416-1 Maintaining product safety / 73 safety safety 2016 Product transparency GRI 417: Marketing and labeling 417-1 Maintaining product safety / 73 2016 2 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Material Topic GRI Standard Disclosure More details / Page number Energy consumption GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1, 302-3 Protecting the environment / 85 Water management GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1,303-2 Protecting the environment / 85 Biodiversity GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-2, 304-3, 304-4 Protecting the environment / 85 Reduction of emissions GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1,305-2,305-4, 305-6, Protecting the environment / 85 305-7 Waste management GRI 306: Effluents and waste 2016 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, Protecting the environment / 85 306-5 34 OUR IMPACT Sustainability priorities EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITIES Material Topic GRI Standard Disclosure More details / Page number Organizational culture and GRI 404: Training and education 404-1, 404-2 Empowering our people / 76 social development 2016 Diversity and equal GRI 405: Diversity and equal 405-1 Empowering our people / 76 opportunities opportunity 2016 Occupational health and GRI 403: Occupational health and 403-1, 403-2 Empowering our people / 76 safety safety 2016 Social investment GRI 413: Local communities 2016 413-1 Programs for local impact / 94 2 GRI 203: Indirect economic impacts 2016 203-1 Programs for local impact / 94 GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Material Topic GRI Standard Disclosure More details / Page number Ethical behavior and GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Upholding governance, compliance compliance & ethics / 69 Climate change risk GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 201-2 GRI Content index / 111 35 3 At Mexichem, we aim to deliver services that address our customers’ needs so that, together, we can contribute to making life better while SUSTAINABLE solving today’s unique social and environmental challenges. We offer a wide range of value-added SOLUTIONS materials, finished products and solutions that contribute to the success of our clients, improve people’s lives and build a more sustainable world. 36 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS We help deliver fresh water where people need it We advance access to healthcare through lifewith state-of-the-art water management solutions supporting PVC-based products for essential use for homes and buildings, as well as rainwater, in hospitals, clinics and healthcare centers, and wastewater, sanitation and drainage systems for propellant gases for inhaler products used by cities. millions of patients around the world. We create new possibilities to make living and We play a critical role in increasing the world’s working easier and better through our flexible, 3 connectivity through advanced data transfer systems that deliver more information at higher versatile, specialty vinyl derivatives that touch the lives of people everywhere through the thousands speeds. of consumer, household and industrial product developments our materials enable. We help farmers grow more food with less Operating from 19 Research and Development water with intelligent irrigation solutions and farmfacilities around the world, we invest significantly management techniques. in innovation processes with our teams that include more than 250 scientists, engineers and agronomists. In 2018, our investment in R&D was $41 million. 37 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS At Mexichem we recognize the importance of innovation to secure our growth, maintain leadership in our industries and engage in new markets and in doing so, enhance the quality of life. Innovating our innovation Innovation at Mexichem has been achieved through the acquisition of new companies and technologies as well as through our in-house research and development processes, proprietary to our each of our operating companies, with their unique areas of expertise. 38 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Innovating our innovation The combination of acquired and developed innovation has led us to However, as we grow, we see the need to innovate even our own innovation develop solutions for the construction, services, civil infrastructure, water process. We aim to better leverage our scale, share knowledge within our conduction, basic sanitation, transport, energy and telecommunications different business groups and operating units, and develop new ideas and industries. Please read about some of our recent innovative solutions in applications for existing technology. To achieve this, we are establishing the following pages of this report. an innovation ecosystem comprised of: 3 Lighthouse: an innovation lab that Corporate venture capital: seeking Open innovation: engaging and In-house innovation: empowering will provide dedicated teams for top new technologies and investing in partnering with startups to advance employees to suggest ideas and priority projects; promising opportunities; early-stage technologies that hold developing a robust platform to strategic promise, and coach these ideas all the way to commercialization. Additionally, we have taken steps to create a global innovation platform accelerate the pace of innovation in a clear and structured process. To get across all Mexichem R&D units to encourage a culture of innovation. We things moving, we created a Global Innovation Forum to establish the way are looking to establish a framework that all our businesses can apply to forward as a global team. 39 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Today, 55% of the world’s population lives in urban areas. By 2050, it is forecast that 68% of the global population will be city-dwellers. Future-fitting The migration of millions to cities carries farto support reaching social and environmental implications, not least of which is the need for the development urbanization of sustainable infrastructure and construction that aligns with the vision of long-term global prosperity and planetary stewardship. 40 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Future-fitting to support urbanization At Mexichem, we offer a wide range of population density grows. At Mexichem, we are sustainable solutions for building and playing a part in the urban revolution through construction, as well as city infrastructure. hundreds of ways that city-dwellers don’t realize As a leading manufacturer of polyvinyl chloride while they enjoy the benefits of modern living, (PVC), we supply the third most popular plastic in and those in developing countries gain first-time the world and a very widely used material in the access to new services that improve their lives. building and infrastructure market. As one of the By providing a range of sustainable solutions 3 largest global suppliers of conduits for fiber-optic and other cables, we play a strong role in equipping that support building and infrastructure, we play an important role in advancing the United city infrastructure for data, water, power and other Nations Sustainable Development Goal #11: smart network systems that form the backbone Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, of city life. As an innovative manufacturer of resilient and sustainable as well as Sustainable sewerage solutions, we help cities manage the Development Goal #6: Ensure availability and increasingly concerning problems of drainage sustainable management of water and sanitation and wastewater removal that are exacerbated as for all. 41 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Future-fitting to support urbanization Cycleways PlasticRoad is a prefabricated, modular and of the future hollow bicycle path built of recycled plastic. Its benefits include: •Faster and more efficient construction In 2018, we piloted the first-ever cycle path made and maintenance compared to traditional of recycled plastic, offering the promise of a road structures due to prefabrication, light revolution in cycleway construction to enhance weight and modular design. urban efficiency, sustainability and to ease the •The ability to store, move and infiltrate complexities of managing road transportation water to prevent flooding during heavy infrastructure. rainfall. •A significantly smaller carbon footprint The cycle path was first piloted in Zwolle in than traditional road structures thanks to the 3 the Netherlands in September 2018 and more than 124,000 cycles used the road during the circularity of plastics, the longer lifespan of the road and an 85% reduction in logistics pilot phase. PlasticRoad showed stability at involved in its installation. temperatures from 20° to minus 5° Celsius with no wear or tear. A second pilot in the town PlasticRoad was developed by a trio of of Giethoorn, also in the Netherlands, confirmed leaders in their respective fields: our findings. Our next pilot in 2019 will be in a NETHERLANDS •KWS, a VolkerWessels company, a parking lot, to test the PlasticRoad under more market leader in road construction in the challenging conditions. Netherlands. •Total, an integrated global energy producer As we continue to develop PlasticRoad and test The road could also be used in parking spaces and provider, and Mexichem’s Wavin, the its viability for more forms of urban transportation, and even to providing charging points for electric European market leader in the field of plastic we see potential uses in smart city applications, vehicles. We are excited about the potential of pipe systems and solutions for sustainable incorporating sensors for assessing traffic our PlasticRoad to future fit cities for sustainable rainwater management. congestion, road use and weather conditions. living and growth. 42 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Future-fitting to support urbanization PlasticRoad is fully recyclable. New PlasticRoad can be produced from old PlasticRoad, although the road’s lifetime is expected to be three times that of an asphalt road – so it might be some time before there is old PlasticRoad available to recycle! “ Around 70% of the plastic used to produce PlasticRoad currently comes from recycled 3 post-consumer plastics, and we are working towards sourcing 100% fully recycled plastic to produce the road in the future. So far, PlasticRoad has drawn interest from all over the world and captured the attention of many PLASTICROAD AWARDS municipalities. City-leaders want to contribute to making the world greener and are looking for solutions In 2018, PlasticRoad won the Cobouw Award for the challenges of the future. The PlasticRoad bike in the ‘best product’ category. Cobouw is a path is the first step in the ongoing journey towards renowned Dutch publication for the construction building sustainable roads and we are proud to be and infrastructure sector. part of it.” MAARTEN ROEF In 2019, PlasticRoad won the InfraTech President, Building and Infrastructure Innovation Prize 2019 by the Dutch Ministry of Infrastructure and Public Works. Read more about our innovative PlasticRoad here: www.plasticroad.eu/en 43 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Future-fitting to support urbanization A road gully to solve an urban challenge EUROPE Urbanization brings new challenges for city planners. Ageing sewerage infrastructure, modern urban planning and other environmental considerations have led to some acute issues in water drainage in cities. Some gullies cannot drain the rainwater away fast enough and will therefore bubble up and overflow into the street – creating stagnant water. Blocked gullies create unsafe 3 road conditions, yet unblocking or repairing them is costly and inconvenient. This poses a serious problem for municipalities and residents. Following consultation with municipalities, sewer maintenance companies and contractors to understand their challenges and needs, Mexichem designed a road gully to overcome the dual The road gully: •Is easy to install twice as fast as regular challenges of improving safety while reducing •Provides access to manholes and inspection gullies and with just one operator, without the repair costs. The gully was launched in 2018. chambers. need for lifting equipment. •Is made from post-consumer materials •Needs less maintenance through its lifecycle. By providing this new solution, we address the (recycled polypropylene) from the automotive •Offers strong hydraulic performance. connected challenges posed by flood waters, industry for gravity sewage systems and a •Is compliant with different local standards for climate change and urban development, helping special piping for pressure systems. European countries. improve the quality of life for city-dwellers. 44 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Future-fitting to support urbanization Construction for better living and working BRAZIL Mexichem solutions are widely used in some of the most prestigious and ambitious construction projects in the world, providing new living, working or recreational spaces to improve the lives of local citizens and create attractive urban landscapes. YACHTHOUSE In El Salvador, we supported work on the most We provided the internal infrastructure 3 modern building in the country, the Insigne building by Calidad Inmobiliaria in San Salvador. including hot and cold water systems. Insigne has 21 floors of office space and was built using our Amanco solutions for drinking water, drainage, and storm water, as well as utilizing EL our pumps and valves throughout the building. SALVADOR Use of Building Information Modeling (BIM) of what at 275 meters will be Brazil’s tallest technology enabled the most efficient design and skyscraper: the Yachthouse in Balneário optimal use of materials which achieved 50% Camboriú, scheduled for completion in 2020. reduction in construction waste. Trenchless The Yachthouse includes two 81-floor residential INSIGNE installation of pipes helped avoid disruption towers. Our Building and Infrastructure group Use of 3D Building Information Modeling to the local area during construction. is providing the hot and cold-water, sewerage, (BIM) technology enabled the most rainwater drainage and fire protection systems efficient design and optimal use of In Brazil, we continue to support construction through the Amanco brand. materials. 45 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Future-fitting to support urbanization Protecting critical oil supplies Among the special uses of our uniquely designed conduits is our collaboration in Canada with Hifi Engineering, a leading provider of sensing and monitoring technology for oil and gas pipelines, including other applications. A key priority for pipeline operators is to ensure the pipes do not suffer damage or leakage of any kind. 3 Hifi Engineering’s sensing technology is “ deployed via fiber optic cable carried in CANADA Mexichem’s Dura-Line conduits adjacent to the pipelines. This system offers unprecedented protection for oil and gas pipelines and provides real-time information We are excited about helping scale this technology to further support city infrastructures about the integrity of the installed pipes, giving and environmental protection. For this reason, we became members of the Fiber operators the ability to prevent potentially Optic Sensing Association, working with other industry players to develop innovative catastrophic environmental damage. We have technical solutions and support changes in public policy to enable their more extensive worked with HiFi engineering for more than a year deployment.” to develop this solution, now deployed in Canada TIM GRIMSLEY and other countries. Vice President, Global Customer Engagement, Mexichem Datacom 46 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Future-fitting to support urbanization Going to the opera? Soon to be better in Prague Madame Butterfly would have been delighted! Our renovations of the State Opera House in Prague are recreating the glory of this iconic theater. The opera house, which opened in 1888, is in dire need of renovation. The biggest issues with the historic 3 building are the distribution systems – particularly the wiring, water and waste. Mexichem was thrilled to accept the challenge of helping restore this UNESCO-protected building, while deploying the most advanced solutions for water, waste and drainage that we can offer. Using advanced Building Information Modeling technology, BIM Revit, the entire internal building structure was scanned and demolished digitally. Then, Mexichem remodeling is in progress, the antique artwork and developed plans to reconstruct the State Opera historic façade of the building remain untouched House to provide highly efficient hot and cold CZECH and intact. Renovation work is scheduled to be water, and soil and waste piping installations. REPUBLIC completed in 2019, enabling the thousands of The solution uses Wavin-brand silent systems visitors to the State Opera House each year to which limit noise from drainage, a significant enjoy a cultural experience in a historic, yet feature to such a building. While extensive efficient and climate-friendly building. 47 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Future-fitting to support urbanization Connectivity is In 2018 we manufactured more than a way of life 400 million meters of conduit – enough to circle planet Connectivity is transforming the world, and it is Earth 10 times. doing so at an increasingly rapid pace. Within the next few years, 5G will transform internet capabilities and the Internet of Things (IOT) will Mexichem’s Datacom group is the only global manufacturer of communications conduit, the largest conduit company in North America, “ connect billions of intelligent devices. In the near and has worked hand-in-hand with some of the largest communications future, unlimited streaming, autonomous cars, service providers for over two decades. remote open-heart surgery, infinite e-commerce, global online education and unprecedented deployment of technology affecting every facet UNITED of our lives will be our new reality. The hardware STATES and networks required to support this change We know for a fact that economies that are now being developed. Our Mexichem make best use of technology are more Datacom business supports the connectivity solution, FuturePath Hybrid™, launched in 2018, competitive and offer a higher standard of infrastructure solutions that underpin the goes a long way to solving these issues. Offering living for their citizens. At Mexichem, the sheer scale and global presence of our scaling of 5G and IOT. a combination of three standard ducts and three datacom offerings positions us at the heart micro ducts in one single conduit, customers can of economic growth. All new technological One of the biggest limitations to the growth of fiber install one line and obtain six new pathways for developments need connectivity. Our optic data transport solutions for 5G is the pace fiber optic cables. With half the time required to products help service providers build their of upgrade of existing cable systems. New fiber install and double the amount of data transport basic connectivity layer. We are playing a optic installations are costly and time consuming space in one conduit, we offer service providers PETER HAJDU significant role in the spread of technology in a period where all providers are racing to a route to faster, more efficient, less costly and fully President, Datacom to all corners of the world, and I am proud of that.” expand their services using new technology. Our reliable 5G-ready service. 48 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS If you are one of the 100 million people in all corners of the world who uses an inhaler to control your asthma, chances are that a Mexichem propellant is Everywhere what delivers you with a perfect dose of medication in healthcare straight to the lungs. If you have ever had a blood infusion, or a saline drip, there’s a high probability that the medical bag was made using our polyvinyl chloride (PVC). One in every five fluorine atoms used around the world come from our company. 49 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Everywhere in healthcare We remain committed to supporting global healthcare PVC is widely used in the services with day-to-day products used in routine construction of medical facilities and specialist healthcare that are essential for many such as hospitals and clinics. In medical interventions and treatments. With an everPost-use medical grade PVC flooring, ceiling and wall coverings, increasing population that the United Nations estimates is fully recyclable! PVC reduces cleaning and will reach 9 billion in 2050 (of whom more than 2 billion prevents the spread of infection will be over the age of 60), the demand for healthcare with its smooth hygienic services will continue to grow. By providing a range surface. of sustainable solutions that support healthcare, we play an important role in advancing the United Nations The two main applications “ Sustainable Development Goal #3: Ensure healthy for medically approved PVC Medical grade lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. compounds are flexible PVC is used in CARLOS MANRIQUE containers and flexible In the healthcare industry, there are hundreds of uses approximately ROCHA medical tubing. President, Vinyl Business Group 40% of for PVC, and this versatile, affordable, recyclable all plastic-based product has become a material of choice in hospitals, Vinyl and vinyl compounds are among the medical devices clinics and other treatment facilities. This is true most versatile building blocks of so many around the world. of the consumer, household and industrial both for medical equipment as well for the internal products we use every day around the fittings in healthcare facilities, where PVC offers world, in healthcare and construction, major advantages in maintaining hygienic and sterile Mexichem is a member of the automotive, electronics, textiles and much conditions. The special qualities of PVC make it an PVCMed Alliance representing all Fluor-based medical grade more. At Mexichem, one of the largest optimal choice for all forms of cables, pipes, floorings, parts of the PVC medical industry propellant produced by providers of vinyl resins and compounds in window fittings and other fixtures in health centers. At chain advancing PVC-based products Mexichem is used in around the world, we thrive on playing a significant Mexichem, our significant support for the healthcare and applications to provide top quality 75% of metered dose inhalers role contributing to the efficiency of several healthcare while being environmentally manufactured by pharmaceutical industry sectors.” industry contributes to the efficiency of health services around the world. In other words, it’s good for our sustainable. https://pvcmed.org companies for 100 million users health! around the world. 50 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Everywhere in healthcare Low-carbon treatment for asthma GLOBAL At Mexichem, we seek to blend science with social and environmental benefit. An estimated 235 million people suffer from asthma globally, according to the World Health Organization, and many use Metered Dose Inhalers (MDIs) powered by propellant gas. Mexichem currently supplies around 75% of “ the leading propellant gas (R134a) for global medical inhaler needs. 3 We are now working with the healthcare industry to promote the adoption of a next-generation propellant that meets all medical performance requirements while offering a much lower carbon We are progressing development of footprint than current propellants. HFA 152a with several pharmaceutical companies and expect to introduce After significant development efforts, driven by Zephex®152a once all necessary a desire to reduce the global warming impact of performance, regulatory, quality MDIs, Mexichem Fluor was able to confirm that a and safety testing is completed. In hydrofluorocarbon compound, 1,1-difluoroethane, this way, we can help people obtain known as HFA-152a, does the job. The global the necessary healthcare treatment warming potential of HFA-152a is 90% lower while reducing the carbon footprint of the healthcare sector overall. We than current propellants, meaning MDIs powered SAMEER BHARADWAJ are proud to be part of a greener by Mexichem HFA-152a can lead to a significant President, Fluor and Compounds Business Group propellant future!” reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. 51 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Everywhere in healthcare This one is for animal lovers Mexichem cares about health beyond humans. GLOBAL “ We leverage, as well, our ingenuity to create solutions that support animal wellbeing and sustainable animal agriculture. A specific solution we offer to customers around the world is a biobased compound that protects animals from harmful parasites. Our product, SuperKleen, sold as a PVC dry-blend carrier, is infused with We are a specialty polymer compound controlled levels of pest or insect repellents solutions provider with a diverse portfolio according to customer requirements. It is used addressing challenging applications at the forefront of materials technology. as an ear tag for livestock to protect them from Our solutions involve working closely infestation by parasites or inserted into hives to with customers to develop proprietary protect honeybee colonies. SuperKleen meets solutions. As we do this, we pay close the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) attention to safety at our manufacturing regulations for products used in animal agriculture, sites and the impact our manufacturing as it is a naturally-derived product that is attractive processes and our material solutions due to its versatility. In fact, in 2018, we saw several have on the environment. Our goal and commitment is to be a responsible player requests from Taiwan and other parts of China in this space.” with customers looking to use bio-based PVC compound SuperKleen in applications for humans GAUTAM NIVARTHY Vice President and General Manager, such as face mask cushions and medical tubing. Mexichem Compounds This just goes to show that caring for animals is always a good thing to do. 52 Agriculture is the main source of nutrition for the world’s growing population, but it is also a significant source of environmental degradation, with intensive water use, greenhouse gas emissions, waste, deforestation and more. According to Climate Watch (published by the World Resources Precision agriculture Institute), 10% of global GHG emissions for greater yields come from agriculture. The improvement of agricultural practices, with science-based technology and innovative solutions, can double or triple agricultural yields, halve the energy, water and chemicals used in agriculture and advance the livelihoods of smallholder farmers, who supply more than 80% of the world’s agricultural output, helping future generations of farmers prosper. Mexichem’s Netafim is the global leader in precision agriculture and sustainable farming 53 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Precision agriculture for greater yields practices based on drip irrigation. Drip irrigation Development Goal #2: End hunger, achieve food allows farmers to improve their yields and income. security and improved nutrition and promote In emerging economies, many farmers are women, sustainable agriculture. “ whose empowerment through greater income contributes to the growth and resilience of entire Netafim precision irrigation solutions have communities. Netafim-brand solutions advance demonstrated their efficacy with hundreds of sustainable productivity by enabling growers food crops in varying climatic and soil conditions. RAN MAIDAN 3 to cost-efficiently produce better and higher yields, while using less water, land, nutrients A development focus in recent years has been commodity crops such as corn, sugarcane and President, Precision Agriculture Beyond our unique and advanced products, the and energy. Delivering state-of-the-art technology, rice, which are global food staples. Low margins precise agriculture solutions we provide include deep agronomic expertise and training, Mexichem on these crops have been a barrier to drip irrigation services and solutions such as design, agronomic is dedicated to helping farmers achieve their uptake. However, tirelessly working to advance and technical support, digital farming technology goals by growing more with less. By supporting mass adoption of drip irrigation with its proven of analysis, monitoring and control systems. These the development of precision agriculture through benefits, Netafim offers tailored solutions and support the company’s core purpose of helping drip irrigation systems, we play an important role agronomic support for essential commodity crops the world grow more with less. That adds up to in advancing the United Nations Sustainable with positive results for global food security. improved food security while saving a significant amount of water and generating economic development for many communities and a major contribution to mitigating climate change.” 54 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Precision agriculture for greater yields Irrigation by collaboration In 2016, we concluded a multi-year collaborative flagship project that Netafim had supported as a founding partner over several years. The Ramthal Community Drip Irrigation Project in Karnataka, a state in southwestern India, is the world’s largest, fully automated, community-based drip irrigation project. The project was financed by the Indian government, and included the design, supply and installation of fully automatic irrigation systems, as well 3 as the formation of 23 water user associations and 230 water user groups to secure and regulate efficient use of irrigation water and equitable distribution, based on approved irrigation scheduling and automation. Netafim India installed drip irrigation systems across INDIA 11,700 hectares with fully automated scheduling and a full crop management package, including training for locals on how to use the equipment to cultivate Want to know more? the most profitable crops and optimize land and Click here to watch our video: Before drip irrigation we used to get good returns only if it equipment use. In October 2017, farmers saw the rained well. When rain failed, we lost investment on seeds, first monsoon crops in several years – thanks fertilizer and labor costs. With no other option, we were forced to drip irrigation that enables crop cultivation when to sell our land to repay our loans. Now, we have gained monsoon rains in the Karnataka region are not good farming skills and experience from Netafim.” sufficient to provide water for a full growing cycle. Woman farmer from the Karnataka region 55 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Precision agriculture for greater yields In 2018, the Precision Agriculture business group mechanization and types of crop was gathered as embarked upon a social impact assessment to well. This data will serve as a baseline for further monitor the success of the project. Two thirds monitoring of yields, crop income and changes of the farmers that participated in the project in the socio-economic status of the farming were surveyed. Socio-economic factors such communities in the region and provide valuable as age, education level, access to banking and information on how improvements can be made mobile phone usage, were measured. Agricultural in Karnataka and similar initiatives identified information such as plot size, irrigation type, elsewhere. 3 Ramthal Community Irrigation Project 2,200 km 77,000 km 22 7,000 1.74 bulk water pipes drip irrigation lines villages farmers hectares average farmer plot size 56 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Precision agriculture for greater yields Irrigation by artificial intelligence Netafim is no stranger to the use of technology in agriculture. Our brand has been steadily enhancing digital offerings and technologies such as cloud Since the launch of NetBeat, farmers in computing, big data, the Internet of Things and 15 countries including India, Brazil, Artificial Intelligence continue to evolve. Building Australia and Japan have installed the system and are starting to evaluate on these platforms, Netafim leads sustainable the benefits. As the main growing “ agricultural transformation. Digital farming supports seasons are through the spring and leading-edge solutions to global challenges such summer, we expect to have detailed as food security, water scarcity, land availability GLOBAL results through 2019. and climate change mitigation. Digital farming technologies include irrigation monitoring, water and nutrient control, and real-time adjustments for We were pleased to be an early adopter of NetBeat technology. We are firm optimum yields with fewer resources. agronomic and hydraulic experience at Netafim. It believers in the power of technology to transform the way we live and work, also uses the input of 150 in-house agronomists and so farming should be no exception. We find NetBeat easy to use and far less In 2018, following three years of development and other industry best practice and statistics. NetBeat energy-intensive than our previous irrigation systems!” Farmer in Japan numerous field trials, Netafim introduced NetBeatTM, calibrates itself using these combined data inputs to the first ever digital solution to enable automated provide farmers with growing models that are crop, NetBeat is the first system in the world that provides a solution for all elements irrigation, fertigation and crop protection. Combining geography, climate and weather-specific. Once in together: monitoring field conditions, collecting and analyzing data, delivering everything into one closed-loop platform, NetBeat the field, NetBeat continually collects weather, soil recommendations for irrigation and fertigation, and automated control of the enables farmers to monitor, analyze and and plant conditions, data through sensors and full growing cycle. Results we have seen across the world are truly incredible. control irrigation systems remotely. In addition, weather stations, comparing live data with the crop This is just the start of our digital farming revolution.” NetBeat features crop models for 15 different growth protocol and making automatic irrigation GUY LEVENTON crops, incorporating 50 years of amassed data and adjustments. Head of Digital Farming, Mexichem Precision Agriculture 57 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Precision agriculture for greater yields Irrigation DripByDrip In 2018, our Netafim brand continued its engagement with multinational life sciences company Bayer, through its Crop Science Division, on a new crop protection approach called “DripByDrip”. DripByDrip is the targeted application of Bayer’s crop protection products through Netafim’s 3 irrigation systems, enabling direct, controlled administration of crop protection to specific parts of the plant roots. A very important advantage of the new system is its high safety level for the farmer. It is a closed transfer system, so that the farmer does not touch, smell or have any direct contact with the crop protection product. DripByDrip also In joint trials of DripByDrip, yields minimizes quantities of crop protection increased, and net revenues rose products leeching into the ground and GLOBAL due to improved quality crops, and contaminating subsurface soil and water, the number of crop protection product as well as reducing chemical residues on applications was reduced by up to 53%. fruit and vegetables. 58 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS The construction and infrastructure sectors consume a large part of the world’s energy and contribute to global climate change through greenhouse gas emissions. Estimates are that building construction and renovations account for 40% of energy consumption in developed economies. The latest special report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) the United Nations body for assessing the science related to climate change sets the ambitious goal of capping global warming at 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. Achieving Mitigating this goal will require major changes in the way climate change industry consumes energy. At Mexichem, we offer a wide range of smart energy-saving solutions, recycling and construction optimization technology. In this way, Mexichem is contributing to advancing Sustainable Development Goal #9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation, as well as Sustainable Development Goal #11: Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. 59 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Mitigating climate change Effortless indoor EUROPE climate control Indoor climate control is a major focus of the construction industry to help gain energy efficiencies and reduce the environmental footprint of homes and buildings. To support this ambition, in 2018, we introduced Wavin Sentio a simple to install, smart, indoor climate control system for room-by-room heating and cooling. Smart “zone heating” can reduce energy consumption by up to 21% compared to use 3 “ of single thermostat control. This is because Wavin Sentio allows the user to control heating in each room, instead of using a single system to cover the entire home. The Sentio system includes the Central Control We utilize Sentio controls on Unit (CCU), extension units, room thermostats and several projects due to its sleek sensors, an intuitive App and an LCD touch screen, design and easy control of the delivering underfloor comfortable heating and cooling Smart zone heating The Smart Indoor system via an app. Its integration solutions that are very straightforward to install and can reduce by up to Climate Market grew with smartphone technology has use. Throughout the innovation process, we involved been positive for our clients. For us, installers from various European countries who tested Sentio extensively and reached out to customer end 21% 48% it is also a lot easier to install and the wiring has become a lot simpler in 2018 and is expected than other systems.” users for their feedback. By taking the effort out of of energy consumption to reach €6 billion in temperature management, we enable installers and compared to use of single AD Mechanical, UK (Mexichem Europe alone in 2019. Customer) users to save energy and resources. thermostat control. 60 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Mitigating climate change Making heating sustainable Reducing global energy consumption in cities is crucial to achieving global energy reduction and A recent report by Heat Roadmap Europe suggested that the EU should move from climate change goals. A key solution to reducing the energy dependency and costs of municipalities is district heating, which is a lower-cost option than 10% to 50% use of district heating by 2050 to meet its energy efficiency goals. batteries for storing energy. 3 In 2018, Mexichem introduced Calefa, a digital heat interface unit for end-users in district heating systems. Installed in homes or offices, Calefa enables savings EUROPE of 40% or more on standard energy bills. Calefa District heating is based on centralized heat operates intuitively and, once accustomed to users’ generation with a flexible heat source. Different needs, self-adjusts for optimum energy without user energy types are combined, switching from one to another for optimum efficiency. Energy types intervention. It also enables limited circular flow of could include low carbon options such as waste hot water in the secondary pipes to keep them warm combustion, biomass, solar panels and natural enough for an almost immediate hot water flow upon gas. Typically, such systems are 100 times cheaper demand, reducing water heating requirements and than battery-stored energy. water waste. 61 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Mitigating climate change Recycling refrigerants JAPAN Mexichem in Japan has pioneered a recycling initiative to help reduce the global warming impact of older generation refrigerants. In 2018, Mexichem established a new facility for refrigerant recycling and infrastructure. Within 3 “ the first year of operation, Mexichem recycled 479 metric tons of propellants, avoiding more than 1 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions. We expect the refrigerant recycling demand to become massive in Japan and in other countries. This is recognized by the government of Japan as a business which contributes to the Japanese objective of reducing high global warming substances”. GREGG SMITH Vice President and General Manager, Mexichem Fluor 62 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Mitigating climate change Protecting the BEFORE AFTER coastline in Mexico Coastal erosion was threatening waterfront properties on Mexico’s Yucatán peninsula until an innovative Mexichem solution helped restore the beach and protect homes. At the beachside resort town of Chicxulub, tidal movements and extreme weather conditions are changing the local 3 geography. The nearby Progreso pier, at 6.5 km, is mostly solid construction and therefore blocks the natural passage of sediment, accelerating erosion and threatening beachfront properties along the coastline. A Mexichem geostructure, consisting of a 20 meter-long tube of woven geotextile made from polypropylene, was placed near the tideline and filled with water and sand. After the water filtered out, a solid breakwater of hard-packed sand was left. Over This solution is not only impressive, it’s permanent. With the geotextile tube in the weeks that followed, the natural tide action MEXICO place, only very rare and strong phenomena – like a Category 5 hurricane – will helped fill the area between the geotextile and be able to erode the beach, and even then, it will recover.” the shore, creating a new beach to welcome RODRIGO PINZÓN locals and tourists to the area. General Director Geosynthetics, Building and Infrastructure 63 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS In 2015, 29% of people lacked safely-managed drinking water supplies, and 61% were without safely-managed sanitation services. While these statistics, published by the United Nations, may have improved over the past few years, much remains to be done to provide universal access to water and sanitation. In fast-growing cities, water stress comes in different forms, ranging from a lack of infrastructure needed to maintain supply of potable water to all inhabitants, to the need for efficient drainage and the optimization of systems to prevent water leakage and waste. Mexichem offers a range of water-related solutions to some of the most pressing water challenges around Helping solve the world including renovation of aging water-delivery water challenges infrastructure, urban drainage management, rainwater capture and storage for use in dry areas, and detection technology for water leaks in buildings. In this way, we support and advance progress towards Sustainable Development Goal #6: Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. For example, Compact Pipe is a proven system for the efficient repair of leaks. Compact Pipe is easily installed within existing pipelines without the need for costly and disruptive trench excavation in busy city streets. With over 1.5 million meters installed worldwide, Mexichem’s flexible Compact Pipe offers an efficient solution to fix old and leaky pipes, and has a service life of more than 80 years, meaning minimal maintenance and replacement costs. 64 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Helping solve water challenges Keeping Cape Town SOUTH AFRICA from running dry In 2018, the city of Cape Town in South Africa was on the verge of running out of water, following three years of drought and an aging infrastructure that was very complex to maintain. It was estimated 3 that up to a third of city water was wasted through leakage, especially in old steel pipes. To address this issue, our team in Johannesburg responded to the city’s water challenge by installing our Compact Pipe within existing infrastructure so as to cause minimum disruption to the city. We installed six 200-meter sections of Compact Pipe, each of which – weather permitting – was completed in a day with no road closures. 65 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Helping solve water challenges Letting no raindrop go to waste Many parts of rural Central America lack access to water through traditional systems. In 2013, Mexichem and Care International, in a program funded by the Canadian government, joined forces to develop a technological solution for rainwater catchment in the south of Honduras where annual rainfall occurs principally over a two-month period. A new rainwater catchment system was developed as a simple and inexpensive method 3 for the collection, storage and distribution of water in the home, using geomembrane – a 1 mm thick polyethylene membrane with UV protection. The rain harvest tank is made of this geomembrane and represents the most inexpensive way to store water. Each system can also become a wireless station for collection of local data, with links to rain alerts and other tools such as irrigation software, sewer and drainage maps, virtual flood simulators and more, which can support water or sanitation installed in Central America using Mexichem projects. CENTRAL geomembrane technology, contributing not only AMERICA to water conservation but also better hygiene and Since 2013, storage systems that can hold more efficient water management to improve the lives of than 80 million liters of rainwater have been all those living in the region. 66 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Helping solve water challenges “ Water leaks that whistle – a world first! How do you test for leaks after you have finished When testing with air, the pressure test is no longer your water system installation on the building site? a hiccup in the installation phase, as there is no To date, you would pressurize your system with dependency on early water supplies at the building water and trace a leak by looking for water dripping site. An air pressure test can be executed during winter time without the risk of freezing pipes. And from the pipes. But now, there is a cleaner, easier, leak testing with air has several other advantages; safer and quicker way! It’s one of Mexichem’s latest 3 there is no risk of bacterial growth due to water innovations, introduced to the market in 2018. It’s the stagnation, it is efficient, and it is ideal for testing world’s first acoustic leak alert, based on testing with prefabricated installations.” air, rather than water. The fittings whistle when air escapes through an accidently unpressed fitting. Just RUURD VAN LEEUWEN Wavin European Product Manager (Hot & Cold), follow the sound and the fitting is found. Developed Mexichem Building & Infrastructure as a response to customer needs, in a targeted design process, the acoustic leak alert transforms construction work, enabling leaks to be detected rapidly, thereby conserving water and allowing construction plans to proceed without disruption. EUROPE Initial reactions from our customers are very positive – some have even given an approving whistle! 67 4 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 68 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Upholding Our stakeholders expect robust corporate governance, governance, consistent compliance and ethical conduct at all times, and we aim to conduct compliance business to these high standards. From our Board & ethics of Directors through our Chief Executive Officer and all our employees, we operate in a culture of the highest standards of legal and ethical behavior and personal accountability. 69 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Upholding governance, compliance & ethics Board of Directors At the end of 2018, Mexichem’s Board of Directors consisted of 13 members, including non-executive Chairman Juan Pablo del Valle Perochena. Five Board members were independent and two were women. The Board of Directors maintains three Board Committees: 4 • Corporate Practices Committee: provides opinions and assistance to the Board of Directors in reviewing important reports and transactions; calling shareholder meetings; and in requesting and obtaining opinions from independent thirdparty experts. • Audit Committee: supervises external auditors, analyzes their reports and reports back to the • The Board of Directors receives regular reports Board of Directors, among other duties. on aspects of our sustainability practices from the Chief Executive Officer, as well as updates • Finance Committee: supports the Board relating to current and emerging sustainability risks of Directors in fulfilling its responsibilities to and opportunities. The Board of Directors provides shareholders regarding the policies, practices and input and guidance on sustainability matters as strategies related to managing financial affairs. needed. 70 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Upholding governance, compliance & ethics Compliance We aim for full compliance with applicable laws and regulations in every area of our business and maintain a strong corporate legal and compliance team consisting of 18 in-house lawyers and more than 20 auditors. Our annual training program is designed to provide all employees with up-to-date training in general compliance topics. In 2018, we completed our compliance training reaching all available employees which we estimate was more than 95%. Our Board of Directors approved our 4 compliance program in 2018. Our compliance training pays particular attention to issues related to anti-corruption and antibribery, foreign trade, anti-trust matters, prevention of money laundering, respect for human rights and prevention of modern slavery, as well as compliance in all functional areas of the business including labor practices, health and safety, and environmental law. Those in specialized, higher-exposure roles received additional training. We maintain a team of more than 100 qualified in-house compliance training specialists from different functional areas in the business who ensure compliance training is conducted throughout the organization. 71 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Upholding governance, compliance & ethics Ethical conduct In 2018, we received Our Code of Ethics guides our company and is a binding requirement for all our Directors, executives and 167 reports employees. Our global Ethics Committee, made up of through our Whistleblower Line senior executives at group level, meets at least once a month to review all ethical issues that arise and to consider responses to emerging issues. In 2019, we plan 15 employees were to reinforce this structure by adding a Business Ethics Committee in each Business Group. These committees 58 resulted in action: will become formal points of accountability for upholding ethical conduct and ensuring training is conducted by dismissed 4 Business Group. 21 We train new employees in our Code of Ethics and 16 reports led to the provide annual refresher training for current employees. Approximately 25% of employees complete this training update of employees online, while other employees participate in classroom training conducted by our in-house team. procedures received coaching Mexichem is firmly committed to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the We operate a whistleblowing mechanism for all reports United Nations and condemns all forms of human of breaches or suspected breaches of our Code of rights abuse, as stated in our Human Rights Ethics or any other violation of laws and regulations. Policy. Our decision to confirm our support for Anyone may report such breaches without fear of the United Nations Global Compact in 2018 is retaliation, including reporting anonymously. All reports evidence of our ongoing respect for human rights are investigated thoroughly and actions, disciplinary if and responsible conduct. necessary, are taken accordingly. 72 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Product safety is a key concern for our customers and therefore a top priority for Mexichem. We comply with all laws and regulations governing product safety and transparency and ensure we provide our customers with all the information they need to safely deploy and where relevant, safely dispose of our products. We also promote the reduction, replacement, or elimination of hazardous materials where feasible. We maintain regular safety reviews Maintaining of all our products and assess them for potential product safety safety improvements. Mexichem supports the Strategic Approach for International Chemical Management (SAICM) from the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP), whose goal is that: “By 2020, chemicals are used and produced in ways that lead to the minimization of significant adverse effects on human health and the environment.” 73 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Maintaining product safety Operating to globally recognized standards REACH: We comply with the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) requirements for all substances produced or imported in Europe for all relevant operations. SAICM: 4 We support and adhere to The Strategic Approach for International Chemicals Management (SAICM) of the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) which promotes the transparent exchange of data and information using a life-cycle approach. OECD: The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development actively seeks to harmonize the international classification of hazardous chemical products. The classification divides the chemical substances and mixtures into different categories by their physical properties and the risks they pose to health and the environment. 74 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Maintaining product safety Embracing a life-cycle perspective Considering these findings, we took the several steps to conducted according to ISO 14040 and 14044 and We recognize the importance of identifying and reduce the footprint of our was scientifically and critically reviewed. managing the impacts of our products throughout PVC products, including the their lifecycle. We perform a toxicological evaluation, The key findings were: following: when pertinent, of products that we develop, in order 1. The raw material and extraction phase, specifically to prevent potential negative effects on health and the the vinyl chloride monomer (VCM) production, is the 1.Prepared to change our specialty resins operations environment both in the production process as well as key contributor of environmental impacts for PVC resin in the USA to renewable during their use. Mexichem adopts the precautionary products. electricity. principle for products intended for the medical and 2. Manufacturing is a secondary major contributor, 4 food industries through the validation of new raw materials by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration whereby energy consumption (electricity, natural gas and coal) accounts for the majority of the impacts. 2.Diverted capital expenditure towards energy saving initiatives such as energy(FDA) based on a range of safety tests. In addition to the efforts listed on the right, we efficient motors, lighting and more. communicated the completion of the LCA to LIFECYCLE ANALYSIS OF PVC RESINS customers through a detailed fact sheet for full 3.Increased our focus on waste In 2018, Mexichem performed a Life Cycle transparency. minimization at manufacturing Assessment (LCA) to baseline and benchmark our plants to include enhanced specialty polyvinyl chloride (PVC) resin products Furthermore, we conducted additional LCAs for monitoring of material produced, and to understand the environmental impacts from different products and we continue to evaluate the off-grade resin use, and resin cradle to gate, or from raw material extraction to the potential opportunities for improvement, based on waste. point of shipment from our facilities. The LCA was the outcomes of these analyses. 75 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS At Mexichem, we aim to create an empowering workplace, driven by people’s passion to be creative in delivering solutions to every-day problems and Empowering broader social and environmental needs. We our people cultivate a working environment that promotes innovation and creativity, and we encourage our employees to share in creating value for all those we serve across many industries, communities and societies around the world. 76 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Empowering our people We aim to provide workplace conditions that U.S. and Canada At the end of 2018, there are attractive, safe and rewarding, offering 8% opportunities for personal growth and development AMEA 14% were 22,000+ while establishing accountability for meeting goals Mexichem employees working and targets. We believe in open and often informal in more than 40 countries, channels of communication where all employees representing more than 60 can hear and be heard, and all voices are valued. By nationalities. providing a positive work environment, Mexichem Europe Workforce 17% of employees in 2018 is contributing to advancing Sustainable Development Goal #8: Promote sustained, 29% by region LATAM were women. Our people spent more than inclusive and sustainable economic growth, 49% 473,000 hours learning 4 full and productive employment and decent work for all. new leadership, professional and technical skills in 2018. Having grown in recent years through acquisition, we are continuing our journey as a leading global corporation with an objective to align our During 2018, we defined people capabilities and competencies to be successful. international workforce behind a single clear identity, development as one of the key strategic •Redefine our employer brand to support our with an inspiring shared purpose and collective pillars of our corporate strategy, supporting business transformation. Additionally, in 2018 values. In 2018, we examined our organization our transformation journey in four critical we concluded the implementation of a new across several dimensions and started to map the ways: technological platform to manage all key processes we must put in place to create a future-fit •Engage our employees in the evolution of Human Resources processes. This initiative, organization and culture to attract, retain, develop Mexichem’s purpose and values. M’People, is transformational in terms of and reward our people in a way that aligns with •Build an environment to promote a positive global talent management and serves as a our business strategy, our values, and society’s employee experience. basis for many future people development pressing challenges. •Ensure that employees have the right programs. 77 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Empowering our people Employee engagement In 2018, we conducted Mexichem’s first global employee engagement survey. The objectives of the survey were to assess the connection of our 86% of Sustainable Engagement people to our company’s purpose and values and understand to what extent they feel engaged, The survey was enabled and energized. 86% applied in 21 participation languages 4 Overall, employee feedback demonstrated a high level of sustainable engagement at 86%, which means employees feel engaged, energized and enabled to do their job. By way of comparison, Autonomy & Empowerment, 11 high-performance companies in our vendor’s Career Development, Change, sample have 89% sustainable engagement. Efficiency & Innovation, Ethics, Following the survey, we communicated the Image & Integrity, Health & Safety, results to our employees at all levels and created Immediate Manager, Teamwork & Collaboration, Rewards & Recognition, an action plan to improve our engagement results categories Strategic Direction & Goals, worldwide. Implementation started in 2018 and Sustainable Engagement will continue through 2019. 78 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Empowering our people Professional development We know that a future-fit organization will require In 2018, we invested more talented and competent people at all levels of the than organization, so we invest in creating a workforce that has the skills to perform today and the potential 473,000 hours training employees, to lead tomorrow. We aim to provide our people equivalent to with the necessary knowledge and skills to perform 22 hours of training their current roles effectively, while offering personal per employee per year. opportunity to enhance leadership and management skills. In this way, we create a platform for our people to progress and achieve their potential while contributing to advancing Mexichem’s strategic goals. ADVANCING GLOBAL LEADERSHIP international career development that will contribute In 2018, we launched a Global Leadership Program participate in this program in the coming years. One to the development of talented employees into with a recognized business school in the United cohort, commenced in 2018 with 30 participants, future-fit leaders. States, aiming to advance a common global mindset and a second will start in 2019. and business language, strengthen leadership The program focuses on three areas: skills and capabilities, and improve networking and communication among Mexichem’s top leaders SHAPING FUTURE-FIT LEADERS Experience, exposure and education: During this from different businesses and countries. Our goal As a result of our focus on developing future leaders, 1-year program, participants gain experience and is to provide all top leaders with the opportunity to we created the exp program, a unique opportunity for exposure by leading two strategic six-month projects 79 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Empowering our people at an international location. They also participate in formal development, and provide tools to facilitate and promote Leadership Programs with Harvard Business Publishing and self-development. Our Digital Learning Platform is Harvard Business School Online. a way to broaden access and accelerate learning at Mexichem. exp Participants are guided by a strong network of support from our current leadership: In 2018, we launched a new Digital Learning Platform with more than 40 initial training modules, including a Project Leaders guide participants in completion of the wide range of topics from leadership to communications, assigned project. time management to teamwork to finance, compliance Subject Matter Experts are available to share expertise and and project management, and many more. advise on specific challenges. Mentors provide year-long support for exp participants, mainly 4 More than 5,000 managers and employees benefited focused on the development of specific competencies. from the Digital Learning Platform in 2018. In 2018, 14 participants from Mexico, Brazil, Ecuador, Peru, Colombia, UK, U.S., Israel and India representing different Business Groups were selected for this transformational PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT program. We promote a high-performance culture that values the We believe this will accelerate their personal and professional professional development of our employees. We have growth, creating a cadre of capable young leaders who will developed a harmonized performance management play a significant role in Mexichem’s future, and a positive process, which in 2018 was implemented globally contribution to society. using our talent management system M’People. For the first time, 100% of our employees in professional positions used the platform to set annual goals, review PROMOTING DIGITAL LEARNING progress, document formal feedback and conclude the We are committed to continuous employee learning and performance review cycle. 80 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Empowering our people Diversity and inclusion We aim to create an organization that embraces diversity and inclusion and offers everyone the chance to advance. Where possible, we encourage the inclusion of local employees, as part of our 4 commitment to strengthening local communities “ and taking an active part in local social and economic development. In each region of operation, we seek to understand the local fabric of society and aim to reflect it in our own operations. Mexichem respects values and celebrates the unique attributes, characteristics and mindsets that make In 2018, we created a new Diversity and Inclusion each person who they are. We consider diversity and inclusion a driver for purpose-driven organization. Policy that was communicated to all employees We are committed to creating an inclusive working environment. In which employees are able to fulfill with a requirement for adoption throughout our their potential and maximize their contribution. We recognize and value the creative potential that organization and the establishment of KPIs to track individuals of different backgrounds and abilities bring to their work.” progress. See the policy on our website here. Mexichem Diversity and Inclusion Policy, 2018 81 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Empowering our people WOMEN AT MEXICHEM OUR SKILLED LOCAL WORKFORCE IN COLOMBIA We aim to provide ample opportunity for women to join In Mexichem’s manufacturing operations in Guachené, Today, 92% of the our business and offer development channels so that they Colombia, we have always invested in the local plant workforce of 380 may grow professionally. Overall, 17% of employees community by hiring local and providing them with the employees are locals and are women and we aim to increase the proportion of skills they need to perform operations in our factory, as the plant in Guachené women in coming years. However, 73% of women at well as enabling them to learn a profession that makes is considered a model Mexichem are employed in management or professional them employable in the wider market. We partner of ethnic integration in roles, demonstrating that women are assuming roles of with government entities, municipalities and labor Mexichem. We have also responsibility and advancing in our companies around the organizations to reach potential employees. created the first generation world. In 2018, the plant was recognized as an inclusive employer of engineers, employed in a In 2018, we also launched a suite of work-life balance by ANDI (the National Business Association of Colombia) range of roles in production policies to help take the stress out of meeting multiple for providing quality employment opportunities. as well as in supervisory and responsibilities at home and at work and, encourage management roles. WELCOMING REFUGEES IN SWEDEN 4 inclusion of all genders. Our plant in Eskilstuna, Sweden saw an opportunity to Managers support the integration of Syrian refugees, helping advance 11% a culture of solidarity with our community, while addressing our own recruitment needs for our manufacturing facility which employs around 100 people. We provided roles in our factory for 13 refugees, starting Other Distribution with a six-month trial period of internship where they learned about our operations and new skills to help them of roles of play a full role in our plant. 27% women at All 13 refugees are now part of our permanent Mexichem workforce and most have been able to bring their 2018 62% families into Sweden. Other Mexichem manufacturing operations as well as other local businesses have shown Professionals interest in this model and may replicate such a program in their own operations. 82 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Empowering our people Employee Wellbeing, specific focus on Process Safety Management if they occur, we examine each case thoroughly (PSM) to support the creation of revised safety and implement corrective actions to prevent Health and Safety KPIs and monitor implementation progress at our recurrence. sites. We revised safety process management Several of our sites are certified to OHSAS standards for our chemical facilities and 18 out of standards, while others implement the same We aim to provide a caring, and safe working 19 Mexichem chemical facilities already have degree of care. environment for all our employees, so they can PSM implementation schedule. More than 300 feel empowered to contribute at their best. We do In 2018, 30 Mexichem operations were certified employees received training in PSM in 2018 (a 50% so with a supportive and inclusive organizational to OHSAS Standard. increase from 2017). culture and human resources policies and A worst-case risk scenario analysis was completed Across our operations, we implement the frameworks that provide employees with the tools for 16 Mexichem sites, providing opportunities to International Safety Rating System (ISRS) and and flexibility to be at their most productive. In 2018 implement safeguards for potential safety hazards. have aligned our global safety management we introduced new policies to enable employees in systems to this standard, verified by Norske most of our locations to adopt flexible work hours For the first time in 2018, we formally included Veritas. We have been implementing ISRS on a (job requirements permitting) and to enable remote contractor management in our PSM assessments phased basis with a plan to certify all sites by 2020. work within an agreed framework. and standards. We communicated these standards to our strategic contractors and have developed an By the end of 2018, 78 sites or 71% of our audit plan to be implemented from 2019. total operations were ISRS certified. PROCESS SAFETY MANAGEMENT We have been working for several years to We continue to engage our employees in improve our safety results and set a target to process safety improvements to minimize OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY achieve a 50% reduction of our global accident risk in our manufacturing operations. All our rate by 2020 (from 2016 levels). We invest in occupational health and safety (OHS) operations have been assessed for process and ensure robust processes are in place, always in In 2018, for Mexichem legacy operations, safety risks and we took a systematic approach compliance with legal requirements, and often beyond we exceeded our target two years ahead of to resolving all risks and hazards identified. compliance. We aim to create an uncompromising schedule, achieving a 53% reduction versus We established an internal audit team with a culture of safety to prevent accidents and injuries, but 2016 (and a 39% reduction versus 2017). 83 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Empowering our people This is a testament to the dedication of our safety leaders and all employees, supported by strong safety TRIR* (Total Recordable Injury Rate) programs and continuous training. However, this performance is not the whole story. In 2.71 3 2018, we were seriously troubled by fatalities in our operations. A Mexichem employee died when struck 2.3 by a forklift truck in our factory in Finland. In addition, 2.5 three contracted drivers died in road accidents 1.74 while transporting materials in different parts of our 2 operations. We deeply regret the loss of life while 4 providing a service for our company. 1.5 1.08 These fatal incidents were investigated by our operations and safety teams and actions were taken 1 to reinforce safety practices and prevent recurrence. We communicated the details of these incidents to our 0.5 employees and third-party contractors, and intensified communication and training, including a special focus on road safety. We also communicated to road 0 transport suppliers our expectations that they help keep their employees safe and ensure that all drivers involved in supporting our business are fully trained in 2015 2016 2017 2018 all safety matters. *Note: TRIR above refers to employees only and excludes Netafim. 84 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS We believe in a shared future in which we not only minimize our negative effects on the environment, but where we, as a large global business, have a regenerative effect. In other Protecting words, at Mexichem, we aspire to contribute in a the environment positive way to our shared future and prosperity on the planet. That’s why, we integrate sustainable elements into decision making throughout our entire value chain and risk management processes. 85 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Protecting the environment Many of our products and services contribute to advancing life while caring for the planet. For example, our drip irrigation systems help save energy and water, reduce the need for fertilizers that can leach into soil or runoff into rivers, prevent deforestation and more. Our The year 2017 was one of the three warmest innovative conduits and pipes, water and waste on record and was 1.1 degrees Celsius systems improve infrastructure and construction above the pre-industrial period. In October 2018, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate efficiently and sustainably. In all that we do, we aim Change (IPCC) released a Special Report on to demonstrate environmental consciousness. Global Warming, determining that achieving a target of 1.5° Celsius rise in temperature In addition to our approach to product 4 above pre-industrial levels will require deep development, we aim to deliver optimum reductions of greenhouse gas emissions environmental efficiencies in our own and rapid, far-reaching and unprecedented operations around the world. Our environmental changes in all aspects of society. management systems in each business unit Sustainable Development Goal #13 requires provide a framework for action and support us to take urgent action to combat climate our quest for continuous improvement. Our change and its impacts. Environmental Management System is supported through a range of formal standards In 2018, Mexichem invested and certifications in 18 countries. In 2018, 60 plants had a valid ISO 14001 certification. $41 million in environmental control projects, consisting mainly: optimization and energy In 2018, our sites were audited 48 times saving, water treatment systems, protection by external bodies representing standards Mexichem also submits an annual report to CDP against chemical spills, noise reduction and institutions, customers and other parties, and 39 (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), the industrial waste management. times by our internal auditors. largest climate change database in the world. 86 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Protecting the environment Environmental In 2018, we undertook a robust review of our long-term energy and climate strategy as part of our business goals and targets transformation. We analyzed the environmental impacts of our current operational landscape in detail (now including Netafim, our most recent acquisition In 2018, we summarize our performance against in 2018). We also subjected our sustainability multi-year energy, greenhouse gas emissions and performance data to rigorous external assurance waste reduction, as well as water reuse targets. in order to confidently establish a new baseline. The chart on the following page shows our Our CEO and Business Group leaders are firmly cumulative performance against these targets, committed to driving energy and emissions reductions 4 which expired in 2018. in the coming years, and, as we define new multi-year targets, we are establishing robust controls and more As can be seen, we have failed to meet our energy frequent internal reporting and review mechanisms in target. There are multiple reasons for this, including order to ensure we remain on track to meet renewed the considerable degree of change in our business commitments. We will establish new targets for 2030. over the past 10 years, with several mergers and acquisitions, changes in manufacturing plants and We are pleased to report that we not only processes, and a very different overall product met our water and waste targets in 2018, but mix and volume by product – all of which influence substantially exceeded them. In these areas, we energy efficiencies on a per-ton of product basis. have analyzed our performance in line with changes Notwithstanding, we sincerely regret that we have in the business over the past 10 years, and are in under-delivered against this commitment to our the process of establishing plans to improve even stakeholders. further in coming years. 87 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Protecting the environment Performance against 2018 targets 81% Goal: reuse of We reused 70% 70% 81% of water 60% 40% water 20% Water 0% 74% 20% 74% 60% Goal: We reduced 40% reduce total 20% total waste by waste by Waste 0% (baseline: 2011) Goal: reduce greenhouse 6% gas emissions by 6% 5% 4% We reduced 5% 3% 2% greenhouse gas Greenhouse 1% 0% emissions by gas emissions (baseline: 2009) Goal: reduce energy 5% We consumed 5% 1% 4% consumption 3% 2% less energy from fossil from fossil fuels (baseline: 1% fuels per ton of product Energy sold 0% per ton of product 2009) sold by 88 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Protecting the environment Improving energy efficiency We support global efforts to mitigate climate change and continue to deliver energy efficiencies and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout our operations. Some examples of continued improved energy performance in 2018 include: • Installation of highly energy-efficient engines 4 for pumping equipment in four vinyl manufacturing plants in Latin America. • Installation of new speed controllers in engines in Mexico. • Installation of PVC resin drying equipment A smart lighting solution with increased energy efficiency in two vinyl manufacturing plants. In 2018, we piloted a smart lighting our facility. The pilot proved itself solution in Germany: lighting as a even beyond expectation with a • Installation of chilled water pipes in Mexico to service (LaaS). This enables our 78% reduction in lighting energy reduce energy required for cooling. plant to procure lighting, rather than consumption over a period of six purchasing lightbulbs. With LaaS, our months. We expect to seek opportunities • Improved control of downtime in the PVC pipe service provider installs and maintains to scale this approach at other plants in production process in Colombia. all the necessary lighting solutions in Europe and beyond. 89 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Protecting the environment Reusing steel to avoid landfill We aim to prevent all waste at source and divert waste from landfill as much as possible through recycling, composting and other means. DuraLine, our datacom conduit manufacturing arm, is the leader in this product category in the U.S. market. To serve our many customers at thousands of locations, we ship datacom 4 Moving towards conduits on large reels for use at the customer location. renewable energy For years we have maintained an active return program that In 2018, we laid the foundation for significant adoption of enables reels to be reused renewable energy to support low-carbon manufacturing in the rather than sent to landfill. In UK. Our Wavin UK operation contracted renewable energy 2018, our customers returned specialists Ørsted to supply natural gas and 100% renewable more than 85,750 reels for reuse, electricity from April 2019. The renewable electricity will come representing almost 7,500 tons of from Ørsted’s 11 operational wind farms in the UK and is certified waste avoided. by REGOs (Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin), which guarantee that energy is provided from a renewable source. The renewable energy supply will reduce our GHG emissions in the UK by almost 14,000 metric tons per year. 90 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Protecting the environment Recycling as a priority PET We continue to place emphasis on recycling as Polyethylene UNITED Terephthalate KINGDOM a way of conserving resources and reducing our Collection impact on the environment. For example, our facility and treatment of bottles in Sao Jose dos Campos in Brazil manufactures Polyester polyester non-woven geotextiles, and over 20 chain years ago, we incorporated recycled polyethylene In our Chinley facility in the UK, we (RPET) bottles in our manufacturing process. operate a recycling plant capable of recycling 9,000 tons PVC products In Ecuador, in 2018 we commenced a pilot program BRAZIL per year. To source raw material for for securing increased recyclable content for our Bottles recycling, we maintain a collection Oil and manufacturing processes. We connected to packaging network with PVC window fabricators a recycling organization that includes around the UK, placing cages for a local network of more than 5,000 disposal of their window profile offcuts. ECUADOR microentrepreneurs, many of whom are in We source approximately 1,200 tons the vicinity of our manufacturing operations. RPET of plastic per year this way. Our plant We developed the specification for our plastic recycles these offcuts to deliver a compound using collected recycled materials to high-quality powder ready for direct be used in our production of molded and extruded In Brazil, we have recycled more than 120 million PET bottles sale or use in PVC compounds that products. During 2019, we are conducting extensive for use in our manufacturing facility over the past 20 years. we manufacture. In 2018, recycled testing and expect to commercialize in 2020, selling products represented 4.2% of our Our geotextile manufacturing operation in Brazil uses PVC products with greater recycled content. 100% post-consumer recycled plastics. sales of compounds. 91 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Protecting the environment Hazardous waste 19% Our total waste generation in 2018 was Total 66,833 tons waste Non-Hazardous waste 81% 4 Reuse 3% 2% Recycling Recovery 3% Incineration 3% Treatment 8% Recovery Landfill *Including energy NonHazardous recovery Recycling Confinement Hazardous 47% waste by type 48% waste by type of disposal 33% 20% of disposal Incineration 19% 14% Reuse 92 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Protecting the environment Protecting biodiversity We also maintain our program for the Our most significant impacts on biodiversity are related to rescue and relocation our fluorspar mining operation in San Luis Potosi, Mexico. of affected species of We maintain a strategy to protect biodiversity, including forest vegetation and restoration of the natural habitats, relocation of species, wild fauna, minimizing reforestation and compensation for adverse effects based impacts and preserving on the findings of environmental impact studies. the abundance and diversity of the We work closely with the National Forestry Commission region and its natural of Mexico (CONAFOR) and provide shared funding for ecosystem. environmental programs in the region of our mines. In 4 2018, this includes support for a broad range of initiatives, including: • Rehabilitation of five kilometers of firewall protection and adding almost 16 kilometers of firewall. • Provision of cameras for photo trapping and monitoring of animal species and vegetation. • Purchase of equipment for radio communication, forest fire-fighting, six kilometers of fencing for conservation of forest areas and more. • Conservation and maintenance of 12.8 kilometers of roads. 93 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Wherever we are at Mexichem, across our 137 plants in 41 countries around the world, we aim to be a positive force in our communities, contributing to economic development, social empowerment and community solidarity. We Programs for believe this is the right way to do business, both local impact considering the needs of our local communities and supporting them with our hearts and minds and our personal and company resources. We have a long tradition of philanthropy, community volunteering and business development that helps improve the quality of life in the communities we serve. 94 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Programs for local impact Our approach to community investment is twofold: Community contributions by cause, 2018 • At a corporate level, we provide humanitarian assistance, working in partnership with Disaster relief: 35% nonprofits, to strengthen the fabric of our Water & sanitation: 27% communities. Typically, this involves donations, multi-year strategic community projects that Social welfare: 10% align with areas of our core business expertise Education: 10% and disaster relief. Arts and culture: 8% • At a local level, we engage directly with 4 Environment: 6% communities, often through our employees Economic development: 3% who are closest to the local needs and engage with social programs, providing cash donations Health: 2% and employee volunteering or other technical support where required to help address the 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 40% more complex challenges our communities face. Our employees volunteer in community activities in dozens of projects covering a wide range of needs, cleaning beaches in Peru; supporting the recovery and conservation of watersheds in Colombia; training community In 2018, Mexichem invested $3.71 million in communities around the globe. In members in business management in San addition, almost 8,000 employees spent more than 20,000 hours volunteering in our Luis Potosi, Mexico; and working with schools communities. to cultivate community gardens in Israel. 95 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Programs for local impact Supporting conservation in Latin America Founded in 2011, The Latin America Conservation Council (LACC) is a group of global leaders who 4 advise on and invest in innovative solutions to the planet’s most pressing challenges at the intersection of people and nature: water security, sustainable food, and smart infrastructure. Mexichem’s Chairman of the Board, Juan Pablo del Valle Perochena, cochairs the LACC, working in collaboration with The Nature Conservancy to protect and restore nearly 107 million hectares of land to date and 16,000 kilometers of rivers in Latin America by 2020. In addition to providing leadership and funding, Mexichem plays an active role in the LACC. 96 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Programs for local impact Water security with water funds WATER FUNDS Latin America has a population of around 650 million people, mainly living in cities. Water is a Convene different critical resource for the region. Continuous action is stakeholders to foster Positively influence water-related governance collective action urgently needed to restore water sources and develop further mechanisms to conserve water so that the people of the region can enjoy access Encourage and drive to water today, without compromising access to Develop a shared and implementation of natural feasible vision of water infrastructure and other water for future generations. security innovative projects In order to address this critical issue, the Water Funds model was developed. Water Funds are Contribute with scientific Facilitate pooling supported by the Latin American Water Funds evidence to improve knowledge around water resources to invest cost-effectively in Partnership, an agreement between the Intersecurity relevant projects American Development Bank (IDB), FEMSA Foundation, the Global Environment Facility (GEF), The Nature Conservancy (TNC), and Water Funds are organizations that design and enhance financial and governance mechanisms that unite the International Climate Initiative (IKI). The public, private and civil society stakeholders around a common goal to contribute to water security through Partnership operates throughout the region nature-based solutions. and has developed local initiatives across several countries. 97 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Programs for local impact Since 2016, Mexichem has partnered supported six of the 24 Water Funds in with the Latin American Water Funds Latin America, focusing on those Water According to the World Bank, Latin America’s Partnership, contributing funding, Funds in areas where Mexichem has a urban rivers and waterways are among the resources and expertise. Mexichem has manufacturing presence. most polluted in the world, since 70% of the wastewater discharged in the region receives no treatment. As a result, millions of people lack access to safe drinking water. Water Funds supported by Mexichem More than 40% of water is lost in leaks in Mexico City. 18% of the population gets just REGION COUNTRY POTENTIAL PLANNED a few hours of water from their taps every BENEFICIARIES COVERAGE week. The water extracted annually from 4 (millions) (hectares) the city’s aquifers is more than double their recharge, according to Mexico’s National Water Commission. Mexico City Valley Mexico 21 815 In 13 years, more than 9,000 hectares of Cauca Valley Colombia 1.2 125,000 forests and natural areas pertaining to the basins that supply water to the Valley of Bogota Colombia 6.8 150,000 Mexico have been lost. Cartagena Colombia 1 * Every year, between 150 and 200 hectares of Guayaquil Ecuador 3 * conservation land is lost in Mexico City. Lima Peru 9 450,000 The World Health Statistics 2018 report by the World Health Organization indicates that *Information not currently available. only 43% of the population in Mexico uses safely managed drinking-water services. Our direct total investment in Water Funds in 2018 was $172,685 98 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Programs for local impact Significant progress includes: families. Due to better management, sediment runoff has been reduced, soil health has improved In Mexico City: and natural habitats have been preserved. • Launched in April 2018. Jamaica Mexico City Dominican Republic • Mexichem has supported this fund in previous • Agua Capital aims to protect targeted years and in 2018, more than 22,024 hectares watersheds and forests that are critical for Costa Rica were protected through conservation efforts, Guatemala aquifer recharge, as the main source of water designed to benefit more than 3.5 million in the Valley of Mexico. Bogota local inhabitants. Cauca Valley • Mexichem’s Chairman of the Board, Juan In Bogota: Pablo del Valle Perochena, chairs this new Ecuador • Agua Somos Water Fund aims to guarantee fund, and Mexichem and other Board members the effectiveness of the water ecosystem have together contributed $1.7 million seed Peru Brazil services in the city of Bogotá and its neighboring capital for the operation of the Water Fund, municipalities. including a conservation-restoration pilot in San Miguel Topilejo. • Activities involve restoration of soil, landscape Chile management, improving agricultural practices • In 2018 progress under that pilot project and protecting and restoring river water sources. included 90 hectares of conservation and restoration, and 41 hectares of agricultural • Mexichem’s support has allowed the installation Argentina best practices with local farmers. of rainwater harvesting systems, drip-irrigation technology for vegetable gardens and workshops In the Cauca Valley: Water funds created for the local population. • Agua por la Vida y la Sostenibilidad Water • So far, around 1,300 hectares of land are Fund has taught agroforestry and sustainable under conservation. ranching practices to more than 2,536 rural 99 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Programs for local impact Good neighbors in Mexico Our main fluorine mine established in 1957 is located in the municipality of Zaragoza, in the state of San Luis Potosi, Mexico. Since day one, we have engaged with our local community around the mine and contributed to life in several ways. We have maintained trusting relationships with our neighbors, addressing concerns promptly. As an example, we revised the routes 4 for trucks moving to and from the mines upon requests from those affected by their passing through the neighborhood. In 2018, Mexichem progressed several initiatives: • Supported the restoration of a historic • Volunteered to train the youth of the • Invested in improving and maintaining building in the community, and helped renovate community in the use of fire extinguishers roads and other infrastructure. two educational institutions. and supported youth cleaning campaigns and volunteer camps. • Mentored local farmers to become food • Maintained our Environmental Services suppliers for our facility. program including installation of fire • Supported a volunteer campaign “Fulfilling prevention structures, flora and fauna Wishes 2018” for more than 80 elderly people. • Donated our limestone rock by product for monitoring, workshops for charcoal production construction use in the community. and kiln construction, an ecotourism workshop • Helped bring the internet into many homes and more. for the first time. 100 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Programs for local impact Rewarding social innovation Every two years since 2011, in Colombia, our Pavco Water Awards seek solutions to challenges of water scarcity in the region through recognition for initiatives that offer transformative, sustainable solutions for the use, protection and recovery of water. The Awards also seek to foster social 4 innovation and entrepreneurship. We invite young people to submit their innovative ideas to compete for a grant that will help them realize their initiative. Recent winning projects include a waterless toilet that generates compost, wetland recovery techniques and grey water recovery. Between 2011 and 2018, we received 210 proposals from 17 districts of Colombia, and awarded grants to14 winning projects. 101 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS “ Programs for local impact Helping kids get healthier Drip irrigation is not only about saving water. It’s a way to As an organization committed to sustainable transform the lives of entire agriculture and advancing life, in Israel, we identified an opportunity to change the eating habits for better communities, whether this is health, support food security and inspire young through sharing our knowledge children to respect the land. The Arab city of Baqa with farmers to generate al-Gharbiyye, less than 10 kilometers from our better yields and improve their Magal factory in Israel, has 30,000 inhabitants. Life livelihoods or teaching young expectancy in Baqa al-Garbbiyye was estimated at 65 years, where in Israel, the average life children to cultivate vegetables expectancy is 80 years. The prevalence of obesity in that they can enjoy eating kindergarten children in this city is very significant, as part of a healthy diet. Our increasing as they grow. Lifestyle and nutritional initiative in Baqa-al-Gharbiyye habits play a major role, so we sought a sustainable vegetable gardens and more than 60 employee benefiting more than 1,200 kindergarten was also significant, bringing way to help our local community be healthier and volunteers supported the training of the children. Arab and Jewish communities live longer. kindergarten staff in their installation and use. Once established, the children and their families A further outcome of this ongoing initiative together in a collaborative, In 2014, our drip irrigation specialist, Netafim, joined tended the gardens to grow fresh produce. Parents is that, the local government now mandates long term project that benefits forces with the local municipality, a local academic were also offered training on healthy dietary that every new kindergarten established in us all”. college and partnering nonprofits to establish a habits for their children and for the entire family. the city will have a community vegetable NATY BARAK program of community vegetable gardens in local garden. Netafim’s Magal Plant was granted Chief Sustainability Officer, kindergartens. By 2018, this collaborative community effort the Social and Environmental Leadership Mexichem Precision Agriculture had yielded more than 80 community gardens, Award for this project by the Manufacturers Netafim provided the drip irrigation kits for the covering all the kindergartens in the city, Association in Israel. 102 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Programs for local impact Developing local tradespeople An innovative way we support local economic supported by Mexichem volunteers and our development in our community is through investment of more than $300,000. supporting local tradespeople and businesses. In Colombia, we support small family-owned In 2018, Mexichem continued to strengthen hardware stores where family members have not our ongoing Training Programs for Plumbers in had formal training in business management or several countries, including Ecuador, Colombia, product trends. Competing with larger players in Peru, Brazil and Turkey. As a leading provider hardware supplies, these small stores need to of water and waste sanitation systems, we manage their operations effectively to survive. have a keen interest in contributing to the Our Pavco brand in Colombia established success of these skilled tradespeople who are a digital learning platform for store owners involved in the deployment of our products. to provide education in marketing, inventory Many plumbers are independent tradespeople management, accounting and more. The menu who did not complete elementary schooling of courses is available to all hardware store and have had no formal business education. owners for them to use at their convenience. In 2018, we added four new courses to the The training program is tailored to different program. needs in each country, often in partnership with a local professional organization. It provides Since 2016, 1,351 store-owners or family support in areas of business planning, customer members have taken at least one course, service and efficient water management. more than 8,700 have visited the training website and 221 participants have received By 2018, more than 11,600 plumbers a certification showing they have completed had participated in the training program, a program of courses. 103 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Programs for local impact Supporting our During 2018, as part of this initiative, and together with key partners: communities when MEXICO • 6 schools were rebuilt, 7 more are in progress. disaster strikes • 2,200 elementary and junior high students returned to their classrooms. When disaster strikes, Mexichem is there to offer immediate and critical assistance. We show our • A health and a community center were solidarity with our neighbors by acting quickly and rebuilt, benefitting more than 300 children per without hesitation to provide funds, resources year. An additional community center will be and in many cases, the volunteer efforts of our ready in 2019. employees, in support of disaster relief efforts. • Soft skills for resiliency were taught in 16 In Mexico, in 2018, we continued to support the schools to 7,400 children. ongoing community relief efforts following the 8.1o rapidly established the Reconstructing Mexico magnitude earthquake that struck off the Mexican Initiative (Iniciativa Reconstruyendo México), to • Mexichem and its employees contributed coast in late 2017. Over 200 people were killed provide a framework for all our group companies to $1.2 million* to the fund. Together with Kaluz, in the earthquake which was the second-most provide immediate and medium-term relief. the initial seed capital leveraged funds from devastating earthquake in Mexico since 1985. Two others to a total of $4.1 million*. weeks later another earthquake hit central Mexico. This initiative was the largest charitable effort in As a result of these two disasters, tens of thousands the history of our company, with a total donation • Thanks to strategic partnerships, projects of people and their families lost their homes and of more than $1.26 million, of which more undertaken represent over $13 million* in entire villages were wiped out. than $38,000 was donated by 2,107 Mexichem infrastructure. employees from 24 countries. Following this crisis, our parent company Kaluz, *All figures as of Dec. 31, 2018. Peso/dollar exchange rate, used for information purposes only, is 18.00 MXP per USD. and its charitable foundation, Fundación Kaluz, For more info visit: https://fondodereconstruccion.mx/en/ 104 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Programs for local impact After the eruption of the Fuego Volcano in Guatemala left almost 200 dead and thousands more displaced, we swiftly joined forces with the humanitarian assistance organization CADENA to support the people in need. More than 2,850 employees from 20 countries donated funds which were matched by Mexichem to reach a total value of $90,000 which was used by CADENA to support local medical, water, sanitation and other reconstruction needs. 4 CADENA also provided medical consultations and individual and group psychological sessions, benefiting more than 1,500 people, helping them cope with the anxiety and stress associated with this disruption to their lives. GUATEMALA 105 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT 106 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is Mexichem’s 10th annual Sustainability Report covering the role we play in society as a global business and our impacts on people, communities and the environment. Data in this report relates to the 2018 calendar year. Our last report was published in 2018 covering 2017 performance. The scope of information in this report is all global business under Mexichem’s operational control. For the first time, our data also includes Netafim (unless otherwise specified), acquired by Mexichem and consolidated for the first full year into Mexichem’s operations in 2018. All monetary figures in this report are expressed in USD unless otherwise specified. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The selection of content for this report was informed by a set of material topics developed by our global leadership and through feedback and expectations gained through ongoing engagement with a wide range of stakeholders. During 5 2018, we have been refreshing our business and sustainability strategy, and we plan to revise our material focus in the coming year in line with our new strategy and business realignment. This report was assured by an independent third party, and the assurance statement can be found in the following pages of this report. We welcome your feedback, queries and suggestions. Please contact: CRISTINA GIL WHITE VICE PRESIDENT OF CORPORATE AFFAIRS Mexichem sustainabilitySDR@mexichem.com 107 ABOUT THIS REPORT Mexichem, S.A.B de C.V. became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) at the participant tier level in July 2018, with a letter of commitment signed by our Chief Executive UN Global Officer, Daniel Martínez-Valle. This is our first Compact Communication on Progress, in line with our commitment as a UNGC signatory to report on our commitment progress annually. We will continue to uphold and promote UNGC principles within our spheres of influence. The tables on the next two pages show the correlation of our GRI disclosures with the UNGC principles. 108 ABOUT THIS REPORT UN Global Compact commitment Global Compact Principles GRI Standards Our Commitment Businesses should support and · Human Rights respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human At Mexichem, we acknowledge, respect and uphold human rights. Our Code of Ethics rights. binds all employees around the world to the highest ethical standards and we reinforce ethical practices with communication, training and immediate attention to ethical issues as Businesses should make sure · Human Rights they arise. We maintain a Human Rights policy with specifically commits us to the that they are not complicit in Local Communities Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other universally accepted standards. We human rights abuses. Aspects drive similar standards throughout our supply chain. 5 Businesses should uphold the · Freedom of freedom of association and the Association and We respect the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. effective recognition of the right to Collective Bargaining We aim to maintain collaborative, open and positive relationship with employees and collective bargaining. · Labor/ Management address issues relating to their rights in a positive manner. We drive similar standards Relations throughout our supply chain. Businesses should support the · Forced and We do not engage in any practice which could be construed as forced labor. All Mexichem elimination of all forms of forced Compulsory Labor employees are legally employed and join our business of their own free will. We drive and compulsory labor. similar standards throughout our supply chain. Businesses should support the · Child Labor We respect and support the rights of all children, and we are committed to preventing effective abolition of child labor. harm and actively safeguarding their interests. We do not employ children in any part of our business. We drive similar standards throughout our supply chain. 109 ABOUT THIS REPORT UN Global Compact commitment Global Compact Principles GRI Standards Our Commitment Businesses should support the · Labor Practices We maintain a policy of equal opportunity and enjoy a high level of diversity among elimination of discrimination in and Decent Work our workforce around the world. Recruitment and human resources policies are respect of employment and designed to nurture inclusive practices for new and current employees in all occupation. matters relating to their employment with Mexichem. Businesses should support a · Environment precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 5 Many of Mexichem’s products are designed to minimize environmental impacts, Businesses should undertake · Environment and provide benefits to our consumers, and to support sustainable construction, initiatives to promote greater smart cities, sustainable agriculture, water conservation and waste reduction. In environmental responsibility. our own operations, we work to drive down our carbon and water footprints and act as environmental stewards in all that we do. Businesses should encourage · Environment the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should work · Anti-Corruption We are committed to behaving with integrity and acting against all forms of against corruption in all its · Public Policy corruption. Our Code of Ethics and our Integrity and Anticorruption Handbook forms, including extortion and guide our actions binding all employees to uphold these policies. bribery. 110 6 APPENDIX 111 APPENDIX GRI Content index GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Page/Response 102-1 Name of the organization Page 3 102-2 Activities, products, and services Page 5 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 3 102-4 Location of operations Page 4 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 3 6 102-6 102-7 Markets served Scale of the organization Page 4 Page 4 102-8 Information on employees Page 118 102-9 Supply chain Page 15 102-10 Significant changes There are no significant changes in boundary since our 2017 Sustainability Report, beyond regular merger and acquisition activity, notably the inclusion of Netafim in 2018. 102-11 Precautionary principle Page 75 102-12 External initiatives Page 119 102-13 Membership of associations Page 120 112 APPENDIX GRI Content index GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Page/Response 102-14 Statement from senior manager Page 11 102-16 Values, principles, standards Page 6 102-18 Governance structure Page 70 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 122-124 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Page 119 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Page 122-124 102-43 Stakeholder engagement Page 122-124 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 122-124 102-45 Entities included Page 106 6 102-46 Report content and topic Boundaries Recently acquired company Netafim is included in certain data for the first time in 2018 102-47 List of material topics Page 33-35 102-48 Restatements of information Pages 125-133 Noted where relevant. 102-49 Changes in reporting None 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point Page 106 102-54 Reporting in accordance with the Page 106 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index Page 112 102-56 External assurance Page 137 113 APPENDIX GRI Content index Material Topic Standard Disclosure Page/Response Omission Sustainable innovation GRI 203: 203-2 Significant indirect economic 38-67 Indirect Economic impacts Impacts 2016 Customer Health and GRI 416: Customer Health 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 136 Safety and Safety impacts of product and service 2016 categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning None the health and safety impacts of products and services Product Transparency GRI 417: Marketing and 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning None Labeling 2016 product and service information and labeling 6 Energy consumption GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 125 302-3 Energy intensity 126 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 87-88 Water management GRI 303: Water 2016 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 126 303-3 Water recycled and reused 126 Biodiversity GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, 93 products, and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 93 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national 127 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations 114 APPENDIX GRI Content index Material Topic Standard Disclosure Page/Response Omission Reduction of emissions GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 128 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 128 emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 129 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 87-89 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting 130 substances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NO x ), sulfur oxides 130 (SO x ), and other significant air 6 emissions Waste management GRI 306: Effluents and 306-1 Water discharge by quality and 131 Waste 2016 destination 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 132 Significant spills 306-3 132 306-5 Water bodies affected by water None discharges and/or runoff Organizational Culture and GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 134 People Development Education 2016 employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Diversity and Equal GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 135 Full data on Board diversity Opportunities Equal Opportunity 2016 employees and minority groups are not available 115 APPENDIX GRI Content index Material Topic Standard Disclosure Page/Response Omission Occupational Health and GRI 403: Occupational 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 133 Safety Health and Safety 2016 management-worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 133 Absenteeism, occupational occupational diseases, lost days and diseases are not reported absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 6 Social Investment GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 94-105 GRI 203: Indirect economic 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 96-99 impacts 2016 supported Ethical Behavior and GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about 71 Compliance 2016 anti-corruption policies and procedures Climate Change Risk GRI 201: Economic 201-2 Financial implications and other risks 124 and opportunities due to climate change 116 APPENDIX GRI Data tables 117 APPENDIX GRI Data tables GRI DATA TABLES Note: All disclosures and data below reference GRI Standards 2016. 102-8 Information on employees 2018 CATEGORY U.S. & Canada Latam Europe AMEA Total Employees Women 242 1,860 1,202 385 3,689 by gender Men 1,459 8,910 4,918 2,749 18,036 Undeclared 48 5 117 5 175 Total 1,749 10,775 6,237 3,139 21,900 6 Women 241 1,824 1,166 360 3,591 Employees on permanent Men 1,458 8,841 4,848 2,506 17,653 contracts Undeclared 48 5 116 5 174 Total 1,747 10,670 6,130 2,871 21,418 Overall 100% 99% 98% 91% 98% Employees on Women 238 1,805 1,055 370 3,468 full-time Men 1,456 8,863 4,792 2,723 17,834 contracts Undeclared 48 5 115 5 173 Total 1,742 10,673 5,962 3,098 21,475 Overall 100% 99% 96% 99% 98% Non-payroll Total 82 636 607 799 2,124 workers Overall 4.5% 5.6% 8.9% 20.3% 8.8% 118 APPENDIX GRI Data tables GRI 102-41 Employees with collective bargaining agreements 2018 CATEGORY U.S. & Canada Latam Europe AMEA Total Employees Total 21 4,083 1,896 186 6,186 with collective bargaining Overall 1.2% 38% 30% 6% 28% agreements 6 102-12 External initiatives The following are key global or regional initiatives we subscribe to. There are several additional initiatives on a country-by-country basis. Initiative Country The UN Global Compact Global Green Building Council Brazil & El Salvador World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Ecuador & Colombia IQNet Association Switzerland Responsible Care Mexico & Colombia VinylPlus Europe 119 APPENDIX GRI Data tables 102-13 Membership of associations The following are key global or regional associations we are members of or significantly support. There are several additional memberships we maintain on a country by country basis. Association Country Cámara Minera de México (Caminex) Mexico Asociación Nacional de la Industria Química (ANIQ) Mexico Comisión de la Industria del Plástico, Responsabilidad y Desarrollo Sustentable (CIPRES) Mexico Cámara Nacional de la Industria de la Transformación (CANACINTRA) Mexico Asociación Mexicana de Industrias Plásticas A.C. (AMITUP) Mexico Consejo Mexicano de Negocios Mexico The International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) U.S.A. & Canada 6 Plastic Pipe Institute (PPI) FFTH COUNCIL EUROPE (Fiber to the Home) U.S.A. Czech Republic The Vinyl Institute U.S.A. The Chlorine Institute U.S.A. NSF Internacional U.S.A. Acoplásticos Colombia Asociación Nacional de Industriales de Colombia (ANDI) Colombia Consejo Colombiano de la Construcción Sostenible Colombia CECODES – Consejo Empresarial Colombiano para el Desarrollo Sostenible Colombia Camacol, Cámara Colombiana de la Construcción Colombia Instituto Brasileiro do PVC. Brazil ABIPLAST: Associação Brasileira da Indústria do Plástico Brazil Abramat: Associação Brasileira da Indústria Materiais de Construção Brazil 120 APPENDIX GRI Data tables Association Country Consejo Empresarial para el desarrollo sostenibleEcuador Ecuador Asociación Ecuatoriana de Plásticos (Aseplas) Ecuador SNISociedad Nacional de Industrias de Perú Peru Cámara Guatemalteca de la Construcción Guatemala Cámara de Industria de Guatemala Guatemala Cámara Salvadoreña de la Construcción, CASALCO El Salvador 6 Asociación Salvadoreña de Industriales. Cámara Hondureña de la Industria de la Construcción El Salvador Honduras Cámara Nicaragüense de la Construcción Nicaragua Cámara Costarricense de la Construcción Costa Rica Cámara Panameña de la Construcción Panama Asociación Salvadoreña de Energía Renovable (ASER) El Salvador Asociación Costarricense de la industria del plástico, ACIPLAST Costa Rica 121 APPENDIX GRI Data tables 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-43 Stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders are individuals or groups who are affected by and influence our business operations. We engage with representatives of a wide group of stakeholders in order to gain the greatest insight that will help us minimize risk to our business, understand and benefit from new opportunities and address stakeholder concerns and expectations. Our ongoing stakeholder consultations have influenced the development of our sustainability policy and approach and our priority sustainability issues. PRIMARY STAKEHOLDER INTERACTIONS Who What How 6 Customers Thousands of customers around the Customer service, quality and compliance, competitive pricing, overall value chain ● Satisfaction surveys ● Client meetings world in different efficiency. ● Industry meetings and conferences business sectors. ● Digital portals ● Joint projects including workshops, training and education programs, and field trials Employees Approx. 22,000 direct Professional development, fair ● Satisfaction surveys employees in our compensation and benefits, a safe and ● Performance reviews businesses around the healthy workplace, and meaningful work. ● Internal communications world. 122 APPENDIX GRI Data tables PRIMARY STAKEHOLDER INTERACTIONS Who What How Investors Current shareholders Return on investment through constant and • Annual sustainability report and institutional sustainable growth, robust governance, • Financial reports investors, investment transparency. • Investor meetings, roadshows and presentations analysts and stock • Notifications through the Mexican Stock Exchange and the National exchange. Securities Commission Communities and NGOs Local communities Contribution and partnership long-term to • Partnerships to improve socio-economic and environmental conditions close to our factories deliver value that benefits communities and • Meetings with community leaders and broader national, societies in general, engagement to • Workshops with communities and local governments regional and global understand community needs and • Meetings with non-profit organizations NGOs with interests responsiveness, and upholding human • Reputation surveys in communities relating to economic rights. • Socio-economic analysis and impact assessments 6 development, social or environmental needs. Suppliers and Distributors A wide range of Long-term commercial partnerships, fair • Supplier evaluation systems thousands of suppliers dealing, opportunities for diverse suppliers, • Supplier meetings across all our business support where needed, fair and open • Conferences and tradeshows sectors in several negotiations. • Joint projects countries. Regulators National governments, Trusting relationships based on compliant • Public-private partnerships for social benefit regional councils and and ethical conduct and respect for human • Industrial guilds and associations local municipalities in rights, transparency and timely reporting, • Discussion forums on sector and social policies all the countries in collaboration to advance public policy. • Government reviews and audits which we operate. • Reporting on corporate performance Academia Universities and Support research initiatives and inclusive • Academic forums on innovation, technology and sustainable research institutions in career opportunities and advance development our areas of expertise. vocational study opportunities. • Engagement with Research Centers • Academic programs supported by Mexichem • Job fairs and hiring practices 123 APPENDIX GRI Data tables GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change The potential effects of climate change on Mexichem’s and more environmentally favorable products, such as our operations include desertification and drought, rising sea new PlasticRoad development which that could become levels, changes in rainfall patterns, decrease in water significant new revenue streams for our businesses around 6 availability, deforestation and diseases, as well as changes in regulation to address climate risks. the world. Ways of mitigating these risks include the development of These changes could generate a rise in operational costs due business continuity plans for each operating division, as well to business disruption or need for additional protection of our as targeted innovation that includes new eco-friendly products. facilities against extreme climate effects. Similarly, regulated Several of these are described in this Sustainability Report. carbon taxes or other product requirements governed by regulation could increase costs. Detailed cost implications and budgets allocated to mitigate climate risk, in additional to disclosed environmental On the other hand, we see opportunities for green chemistry expenditure, are not yet available. 124 APPENDIX GRI Data tables GRI 302: ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization ENERGY CONSUMPTION Direct energy (Scope1) Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 Natural Gas MWh 2,709,492 2,526,510 2,450,339 2,112,939 Gasoline MWh 9,911 7,821 12,394 12,874 Diesel Fuel MWh 55,243 60,467 78,805 78,895 LPG MWh 119,105 113,434 112,891 123,464 Butane MWh NA NA NA 11,710 6 Propane MWh NA NA NA 1,567 Coal MWh NA 192,298 198,269 183,184 Scope 1 (fuel and gas mix) MWh 2,893,751 2,900,530 2,852,698 2,524,633 Scope 2 (purchased electricity) MWh 2,680,079 2,445,311 2,457,173 2,723,899 Total energy consumption MWh 5,573,830 5,345,841 5,309,871 5,248,532 Notes: •Purchased electricity includes some elements of renewable energy in the national mix. •Netafim data included for the first time in 2018 electricity only which represents 98% of Netafim’s energy source. Netafim's impact on total energy use is less than 2%. •NA: data not available for those years. •For natural gas, 2015, 2016 and 2017 data was restated due to change in calculation methodology revealing some inaccuracies, now corrected. •For natural gas consumption conversion to MWh, we apply the same heating power for all sites. We are improving our calculation methodology to increase data accuracy. 125 APPENDIX 302-3 Energy intensity GRI Data tables Energy per ton of product Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 (MWh / ton sold) 0.66 0.68 0.64 0.54 Scope 2 (MWh / ton sold) 0.61 0.58 0.55 0.58 Total energy intensity (MWh / ton sold) 1.28 1.26 1.19 1.12 Notes: •Netafim data included for the first time in 2018 – on the basis of product manufactured, not product sold. Intensity for Mexichem legacy sites is calculated on the basis of product sold per year. •Due to restatements in energy consumption, intensity data for Scope 1 from 2015 to 2017 has been updated. GRI 303: WATER 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 303-3 Water recycled and reused 6 Water withdrawal Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 Surface water m3 12,752,919 8,171,187 8,670,527 8,262,661 Ground water m3 3,799,653 4,937,316 5,177,875 5,340,727 Potable Water m3 NA 459,492 422,519 569,176 Municipal Water m3 NA 2,435,233 2,057,008 1,580,702 Total water withdrawal m3 16,552,572 16,003,228 16,327,929 15,753,266 Water recycled and reused m3 11,425,139 11,202,637 11,306,072 12,682,334 % Water recycled/reused % 69% 70% 69% 81% Water withdrawal m3/ton sold m3/ton sold 3.7 3.8 3.7 3.4 Notes: •Netafim data included for the first time in 2018. 126 •2016 and 2017 data was restated due to change in calculation methodology revealing some inaccuracies, now corrected. APPENDIX GRI Data tables GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats UNITS 2018 in areas affected by operations* 6 Critically endangered Endangered # of species # of species 0 1 Vulnerable # of species 1 Near threatened # of species 2 Least concern # of species 2 Notes: •This data refers to our fluorite mine in San Luis Potosí, Mexico, which is where we have our most significant impact on biodiversity. 127 APPENDIX GRI Data tables GRI 305: EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Greenhouse gas Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 emissions GHG Emissions Scope 1 Tons CO2e 605,166 613,004 587,487 575,204 GHG Emissions Scope 2 Tons CO2e 1,157,574 1,061,637 1,173,202 1,215,035 6 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Basis for reporting on greenhouse gas emissions Tons CO2e 1,762,740 1,674,641 1,760,689 1,790,239 Notes: •Gases included are carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). •Netafim data included for the first time in 2018 (Scope 2 only). •Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHGs) are calculated using various standardized emissions calculation methodology and factors, including the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council on Sustainable Development (WBCSD), Greenhouse Gas Protocol Version 4.1, emission Factor of the National Electric System from the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) 2018 established in the Mexico and the International Energy Agency (CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2013 Edition). Emissions in Israel used the Israel Electric Company factors. •2015, 2016 and 2017 data was restated due to change in calculation methodology revealing some inaccuracies, now corrected. •Mexichem generates a small number of fugitive emissions (Scope 1) from refrigerants (with and without ozone depleting potential), whose emissions in 2018 amounted to less than 48,000 tons CO2 in total. These emissions are not included in the total above for comparability reasons. 128 APPENDIX GRI Data tables 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GHG emissions intensity Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 Scope 1 Tons CO2e/ton sold 0.14 0.14 0.13 0.12 Scope 2 Tons CO2e/ton sold 0.27 0.25 0.26 0.26 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Tons CO2e/ton sold 0.40 0.39 0.39 0.38 6 Notes: •Netafim data included for the first time in 2018 – on the basis of product manufactured, not product sold. Intensity for Mexichem legacy sites is calculated on the basis of product sold per year. Intensities 305-6 per ton Emissions of produced 2018 substances (ODS) ozone-depleting Total Energy Consumption Emissions of ozone-depleting Total GHG emissions Total Water Withdrawal (MWh)/ton produced substances (ODS)(tons CO2e)/ton Units produced 2018 (m3)/ton produced 0.65 R-22 Tons0.22 CFC-11e 0.047 1.96 R-141b Tons CFC-11e 0.004 Notes: •Going forward, intensities will be calculated Totalper ton produced. Tons CFC-11e 0.051 •Total tons produced in 2018: 8,022,976 129 Scope 2 Tons CO2e/ton sold 0.27 0.25 0.26 0.26 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 Tons CO2e/ton sold 0.40 0.39 0.39 0.38 APPENDIX Notes: GRI Data tables •Netafim data included for the first time in 2018 – on the basis of product manufactured, not product sold. Intensity for Mexichem legacy sites is calculated on the basis of product sold per year. 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Units 2018 R-22 Tons CFC-11e 0.047 R-141b Tons CFC-11e 0.004 Total Tons CFC-11e 0.051 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions 6 NOX , SOX , and other Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 significant air emissions Nitrogen Oxides (NOX) Tons 793 760 779 689 Sulfur Oxides (SOX) Tons 1,250 1,309 1,257 1,355 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) Tons NA NA 83 108 Total other air emissions Tons 2,043 2,069 2,119 2,152 Notes: •Data excludes Netafim. •2015 to 2017 data was restated due to change in calculation methodology revealing some inaccuracies, now corrected. •VOC data not available for 2015-2016. 130 APPENDIX GRI Data tables GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Water discharge Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 Wastewater to sewer m3 NA NA NA 2,276,618 Wastewater to nature (surface) m3 NA NA NA 8,257,152 Wastewater to nature (underground) m3 NA NA NA 6,087 6 Total water discharge m3 12,045,298 11,171,897 11,037,340 10,539,857 Notes: ·Data excludes Netafim. ·Data breakdown is not available between 2015 and 2017. Water discharge quality Units 2018 Total Suspended Solids (TSS) Tons 117 Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) Tons 384 Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) Tons 116 Total Organic Carbon (TOC) Tons 136 Total solids Tons 753 Notes: ·Data excludes Netafim. Prior years not available. 131 APPENDIX GRI Data tables 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Non-hazardous waste Units 2018 Hazardous waste Units 2018 Landfill Tons 25,259 Landfill Tons 7 Reuse Tons 7,825 Reuse Tons 319 Recycling Tons 17,766 Recycling Tons 314 Recovery (including energy recovery) Tons 1,833 Recovery (including energy recovery) Tons 5,936 Incineration Tons 1,724 Incineration Tons 2,334 6 Total non-hazardous waste Tons 54,407 Treatment Confinement Tons Tons 979 2,537 Total hazardous waste Tons 12,426 Units 2018 Units 2015 2016 2017 2018 Percentage of total waste recycled/reused % 39% Total waste generated Tons 56,695 56,928 72,710 66,833 Percentage of total waste sent to landfill % 38% 306-3 Significant spills There was just one spill in 2018, of approximately one cubic meter of hydraulic liquid. No harm was caused to people or the environment. 132 APPENDIX GRI Data tables GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-1 Worker representation in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees More than 90% of our manufacturing sites have safety committees to represent the safety of all people on site. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Global employees U.S. & Canada LatAm Europe AMEA TOTAL Injuries (TRIR) 2.05 0.89 1.17 0.90 1.08 6 Lost days rate (severity) Fatalities 17.08 0 15.89 0 16.77 1 17.73 0 16.44 1 Supervised contractors U.S. & Canada LatAm Europe AMEA TOTAL Injuries (TRIR) 1.81 0.25 1.61 1.01 0.69 Lost days rate (severity) 0.00 0.71 9.82 14.13 5.01 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Notes: •Safety rates are per 100 employees, using actual work hours. •Injury rate is the Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) and Lost day rate is the Severity Rate. •Netafim data includes manufacturing and warehousing operations only and only for direct employees, not contractors. •Data by gender is not available at this time. •Data for occupational diseases and absenteeism is not consolidated at group level. •Contractor data excludes Netafim. 133 APPENDIX GRI Data tables GRI 404: Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Employee training (number of training hours) U.S. & Canada LatAm Europe AMEA TOTAL 6 Managers/ professionals Others 10,577 24,268 128,366 162,052 46,558 29,855 10,563 61,520 196,063 277,696 Total 34,845 290,418 76,413 72,083 473,759 Average per employee 20 27 12 23 22 134 APPENDIX GRI Data tables GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Employees by level and age U.S. & Canada LatAm Europe AMEA TOTAL Managers < age 30 8 40 20 44 112 age 30-50 91 518 407 426 1,442 >age 50 111 223 244 97 675 Professional employees < age 30 77 954 346 483 1,860 6 age 30-50 >age 50 265 191 2,232 525 1,297 722 1,131 194 4,925 1,632 Other employees < age 30 268 1,423 530 299 2,520 age 30-50 473 3,782 1,495 376 6,126 >age 50 265 1,078 1,176 89 2,608 All employees < age 30 353 2,417 896 826 4,492 age 30-50 829 6,532 3,199 1,933 12,493 >age 50 567 1,826 2,142 380 4,915 All employees by < age 30 2% 11% 4% 4% 21% percentage of total employees age 30-50 4% 30% 15% 9% 57% >age 50 3% 8% 10% 2% 22% 135 APPENDIX GRI Data tables Women in Mexichem U.S. & Canada LatAm Europe AMEA TOTAL Managers 32 173 119 64 388 Professional 146 1,121 763 264 2,294 Others 64 566 320 57 1,007 Total 242 1,860 1,202 385 3,689 Overall % 14% 17% 19% 12% 17% 6 GRI 417: MARKETING AND LABELING 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling Our products are used in several industries, most of which are our labeling requirement to cover more than 90% of our products. strictly regulated in terms of product raw materials, components, safety data, use and disposal. In several cases, we are required to Our Quality Assurance procedures in each operating unit regularly comply with specific regulation by country or by region. With very assesses conformance with these requirements as part of our few exceptions, we are required to label our products in accordance ongoing quality processes and adherence to standards such as ISO with regulation or customer requirements. We therefore estimate 9001. 136 APPENDIX Assurance statement 137 APPENDIX Assurance statement 6 138 Sustainability Report 2018 Report and information available at www.sustainabilityreport.mexichem.com 139
