2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT Table of Contents Message of Support Q&A A message from John Body 3 Natalie Coyles, Vibrant Communities Sector Lead 32 Area: Human Rights Area: Labour Principle 1 6 Principle 5 36 Principle 2 9 Principle 6 40 Q&A Q&A Ben Evans, What is a Chief Ethicist? 13 Cybelle Ledez, Healthy Societies Sector Lead 45 Area: Human Rights Area: Environment Principle 3 21 Principle 7 50 Principle 8 54 Area: Labour Principle 9 62 Principle 4 25 Area: Anti-Corruption SDGs Making Global Impact 29 Principle 10 68 Message of Support This is our second yearly Communication On Progress Report, issued as part of our responsibilities as a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. While we are required to communicate our progress as part of being a signatory to this important set of principles we do so with much gladness and enthusiasm. Adopting the Sustainable Development Goals as our ‘North star’ has been a hugely-transformative decision for ThinkPlace. As we have gone about enacting this transformation, the Global Compact has been our way of codifying that commitment. It allows us to set out our intentions for all to see and calls on us to explain how we have acted upon them. It gives us the opportunity to outline how instrumental the adoption of the goals has been in driving and shaping our development as a company. During the past 2 years, ThinkPlace has increasingly hardwired the Sustainable Development Goals into everything we do. Whether it is our work around the globe creating positive change for governments, companies and NGOs or the internal processes and decisions that govern how we seen our social media profile skyrocket as interest grows in function as a company, we place the SDGs at the centre. what we are doing. The past 12 months have seen us further entrench this There is no doubt that these 17 goals have transformed relationship as we have used the goals to redefine our entire our company. They have given laser-like focus to our organisational structure. With new roles and accountabilities already-strong determination that we will collectively and in place and another 12 months of culture and leadership collaboratively work to create a better world. behind us it is gratifying to see the ongoing impact that adopting the goals has made on our business. They have created a shared purpose that motivates our staff, our leaders and our partners. And they give us a standard that We have seen our impact multiply across areas like global we can both aspire to and track our progress against. nutrition, disease prevention, family violence and renewable energy as our designers across the globe take on challenges With that spirit in mind, I invite you to read this report as we for clients such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and proudly communicate to the world our progress on advancing Johns Hopkins University. These projects involve working with the 17 SDGs. communities and partners to create interventions that will save or improve the lives of millions. Committing to the goals has also helped our company grow. In the past 12 months we have won major awards in Germany, Sincerely, Africa, Australia and the United States. We have been named Social Changemaker Of The Year at Australia’s peak business awards. We’ve opened a new studio in the United States, taken John Body, on projects in more than 30 countries around the world and Founding Partner “ The 17 SDGs have given us laser-like focus to our already strong determination to create a better world Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights What Whatwe webelievebelieve At ThinkPlace, we design for a better world. Our focus is on working alongside communities and partners to creatively tackle the world’s most complex challenges. We do this based on the principles of co-design and the belief that those closest to the problem have expertise, insights and experience that are critical in tackling it. At the core of this philosophy is respect for others and an authentic desire to include and benefit from diverse voices and perspectives. There is also a strong commitment to the role of institutions in codifying, preserving and pursuing an international human rights agenda. ThinkPlace is committed to ensuring everything we do is aligned to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Because of the nature of our work, we have an unwavering commitment to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. How we show it Whether it’s a strategy, policy, programme, • We put in place the policies, training and principles our people need to live service or a digital product, our designs our shared ethics improve things for the individuals, communities and societies who will • Our Engagement Risk Matrix, published on our internal communications experience them. We do not create channel, asks staff about to conduct fieldwork to consider the vulnerability situations of harm for individuals, of the people with whom they engage, the sensitivity of the topics of communities and societies. We always engagement and whether the engagement might impinge negatively on strive to move the needle on the UN’s the rights of the subject. This enables higher risk engagements to be Sustainable Development Goals, in both considered by our Executive and Board before a decision is made whether developed and developing countries. to proceed. • We provide team members with training to ensure that human rights are protected and upheld throughout our interactions with people through our learning module Ethics in the Human Research Process. • To ensure its alignment with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, (and Australian law) ThinkPlace has developed a policy document: ThinkPlace’s Protecting Children Policy. • To ensure its compliance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ThinkPlace has sought out best practice globally to guide the work of its team members. We use Ethical Guidance for Research with People with Disabilities, published by the National Disability Authority of Ireland. Human Rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses What we believe At ThinkPlace, we design for better futures. We Within this framework of rules and principles we recognise that the UN have chosen to formalise this guiding principle Charter of Human Rights is a foundational document It is core to the by adopting the dual frameworks of the United mission of the United Nations and it is similarly central to the ThinkPlace Nations Global Compact and the Goals for mission. Sustainable Development. We work for change at a systems level in countries all over the world. This means we have vast capacity to make an impact on the lives of those who are vulnerable or exploited. We strive to make this impact a positive one. Few things could be more important to our company than ensuring we are not complicit in any human rights abuses. We take care to ensure that our commitment to human rights is not an abstraction, it is a change we seek to make in the world. It is also important to us that we are transparent in our actions, opening ourselves for appropriate outside scrutiny to ensure our everyday actions match our declared ideals and standards. We are meticulous about monitoring our own impact in these areas but also careful to ensure the partners and clients we engage with have similarly high standards. Through our work we strive to build up civic institutions in the developing world and to create stronger circumstances in which human rights can flourish. Our work is, by nature, collaborative. This means we have an extra responsibility to ensure we do not unwittingly abet human rights violations by our partners. How we show it Any potentially problematic project that • An Ethics statement is prominently displayed on our global website and ThinkPlace takes on must first undergo a makes clear the principles we expect to uphold. formal ethics screening process, overseen https://www.thinkplaceglobal.com/company/ethics by our Chief Ethicist. This is a detailed audit that examines whether a project is likely • The ThinkPlace Code of Conduct details what is expected from to cause harm but also examines whether each ThinkPlace employee or contractor. It is compulsory reading any of the partners involved in the work are for all staff and an expectation that it be upheld is stipulated in all engaged in behaviour that contravenes our employment contracts. The code is prominently published on our internal commitment to protecting human rights communications channel. and other ethical mainstays. Induction manuals for new staff also make clear that all projects must avoid negative impact in a range of areas, including human rights. New staff undergo comprehensive ethics training. This is scenariobased and aims to present staff with the kind of dilemmas or challenges they may face in the field. Some of these scenarios relate to identifying, avoiding and reporting situations where human rights are being violated. The Chief Ethicist is constantly available as a resource/adviser to assist staff with ethical questions that arise. Wherever possible in our supply chain, we use local suppliers with whom we can maintain a personal relationship and values alignment. All suppliers we use must comply with the Australian Fair Work Act and with antislavery policies. QWhat & A we believe Dr Ben Evans Chief Ethics and Risk Officer The role of Chief Ethics and Risk Officer is crucial to ThinkPlace’s adherence to the principles of the Global Compact. We sat down Dr Ben Evans to find out more about with what this role entails... TP: You are the new Chief Ethics and Risk Officer, having taken over that role from Darren Menachemson during recent months. What does that title mean at ThinkPlace and how does it relate to the SDG’s and the Global Compact? BE: The goals and the compact are absolutely central. Many companies around the world have become increasingly interested in how they might ensure that they are acting ethically. At ThinkPLace we have long held a determination to be ethical actors and to make positive change. But the SDGs have given a new focus to that. QWhat & A we believe Dr Ben Evans And that provides a brilliant opportunity for us to tell the story of what those 17 goals mean to us as a company. We can explain not just why Chief Ethics and Risk Officer we’ve adopted the goals as our ‘North star’ but how we use them to guide our work all over the world every day. And, more often than not, it’s a TP: Has adopting them made us a more ethical conversation they are really hungry to have. company? TP: How do we use the SDGs in a practical sense? BE: Rushworth Kidder famously said that ethics is mostly not about making decisions between right and BE: When we are looking at whether to take on a new client or a new piece wrong; more often it’s about choosing between two of work they give us a clear sense of purpose and a checklist for action. courses of action that might both appear right. The SDGs help with that; they help us decide between which • Does this work ‘move the needle’ on at least one of the SDGs? right to choose. They give us a framework that helps us • Does it make enough of a difference? Are we being ambitious and bold decide where to put our energy, our resources and our enough? focus • Might this project negatively impact one of the SDGs in some way? TP: What other impact has it had? If we can’t satisfy ourselves with the right answers to these questions then we won’t carry out the work. What we say no to is every bit as important as BE: When clients walk into our studios the first thing the projects we do take on. they often see is the SDGs. We have the 17 goals stuck prominently on the studio walls. TP: Why do we need the SDGs to act ethically? People are often surprised, even amazed, to see the BE: For us, it’s good to sign up to a set of external principles that we SDGs on the wall. They ask us: “You’re not a UN agency. can judge our behaviour and our work against. It means we are part of Not an aid agency… why do you have those there?” something larger than ourselves. Something global. Something powerful. QWhat & A we believe Dr Ben Evans Chief Ethics and Risk Officer We can have confidence that this is something of something bigger than themselves. The goals give each of us some meaningful that has been set up as a response to the structure and some accountability to measure our intent to do good most important challenges facing our planet. against. Will our intent actually make positive impact in the right areas? We firmly believe that there is power in holding yourself accountable to a TP: How do individual ThinkPlace staff use the SDGs? set of standards that you haven’t created yourself. BE: From day one as a ThinkPlacer, the SDGs are front TP: The SDGs are areas that require action now but goals like ‘No Poverty’ and centre. They are part of the induction process and ‘End Hunger’ are also long term objectives. Does that make them for new staff, they are a focus at team meetings, at harder to pursue? company-wide events like our Christmas Party or strategy day. BE: Recently we’ve been thinking and talking as a company about what we can put in place now to ensure ThinkPlace is still going strong 100 Our staff each wear ThinkPlace hoodies with the SDGs years from now. To do this well we need to be appropriately ambitious for emblazoned on the back. We have witnessed first-hand ourselves and for the positive impact we can make. the pride that signing up to the goals and the compact has had on our people. Looking to the limitless scope of the SDGs definitely helps us to think long term. By and large, I think most people want to make ethical choices. They want to feel that they are part And that’s a really good thing. “ From day one as a ThinkPlacer, SDGs are front and centre, as part of our induction process, in team meetings, team activities or strategy day Our Work In many facets of our work we are In Africa, we are engaged with multiple projects advancing access to demonstrating commitment to advancing quality healthcare, including women’s health and reproductive health. human rights across the globe. In Australia we are at the forefront of efforts to tackle family violence, promoting fundamental human rights of safety and security for women We are strongly committed to advancing the and children. public discussion around digital ethics and creating better human-centred leadership Another area in which we are deeply engaged with advancing human in the Australian public sector – vital to dignity and human rights is through our work around the globe with First sustaining human rights in the face of a Nations peoples. digital world. Our approach to First Nations peoples is based upon a bedrock Futurist Gerd Leonard has exhorted digital commitment to self-determination as the desired state. We believe this is leaders to ‘be on team human, not just the future for First Nations people and that human-centred design can be a team future’. We are strong and persuasive powerful tool to achieve this. advocates for this approach, through thought leadership (writing, thinking and We are working with the Commonwealth Department of Health, Health running events) and through running Incentives Scheme actively co-designing with First Nations communities to education short courses such as The Ethics ensure needs of Health’s indigenous clients are well met of Digital Transformation, which aim to build these capabilities within the public sector. In Victoria, ThinkPlace has co-designed and led a process to rename places to their Indigenous names – re-establishing connection for indigenous communities, educating all Australian about Indigenous connection to land, Indigenous history and culture. Black Mountain School ThinkPlace often runs events, workshops and strategy sessions for clients and others. Each year we host thousands of people in our studios, creating an ongoing need for hospitality and catering services. To meet this need we provide casual employment opportunities, paying award wages under the Australian Fair Work Act, to young people with intellectual disabilities through Black Mountain School in Canberra. Black Mountain School is a centre of excellence in the field of special education. It is a specialist secondary school (years 7 12) for students with an intellectual disability. It provides a functional curriculum to support students to reach their maximum potential and independence. The right to fair pay and the opportunity for appropriate and rewarding employment are important goals for many people living with intellectual disabilities. We are proud to play a small part in helping to advance these fundamental human rights within our community. Through ThinkPlace Education we have developed Co-design Training for Aboriginal Leaders. As a company we are thrilled to be helping develop the Indigenous leaders who will design the future of First Nations Australians. As design lead for the Holistic Healing for Indigenous Communities project in Victoria we are working to co-design with Indigenous communities an appropriate, community-centred way to secure holistic therapeutic healing services to help Indigenous community members to recover from domestic violence. All of these projects, along with ThinkPlace work with native peoples in the United States, New Zealand and many African nations underscores the commitment of our designers to upholding the human rights of indigenous peoples and advancing a human rights agenda in general. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining What we believe Ours is a workplace unlike other workplaces Central to this is the idea that every staff member – senior or junior – is a and has a structure unlike other workplace trusted collaborator. There is no top-down approach to industrial relations. structures. The fundamental principle that Together we co-design the policies, values and structure that govern each organises and binds us together at ThinkPlace of us as ThinkPlace employees. is collaboration. Our structure is purpose-designed to avoid the kind of adversarial relations that can form between employer and worker, or between teams or colleagues, in more conventional structures. To do this we have eschewed the idea of a traditional workplace hierarchy. Instead we favour networks of criss-crossing influence and collaboration. Teams form and re-form according to project needs. Senior and junior colleagues learn from each other. Employees at ThinkPlace do not work for a boss. Instead, our “unboss” system allows each worker to select their unboss from a hat. These roles are-re-allocated every 12 months, forging new relationships and possibilities. The unboss is responsible for helping the employee navigate a world in which he or she has more than the usual degree of agency. Each ThinkPlacer is empowered to shape their own future direction, to map their own career journey. But they will do so in a way that is supported and that provides them the skills to succeed How we show it Our pay structure is completely transparent. Progression through the levels is predictable, and is mostly based on Everybody knows what level each of their experience and a nurturing idea of performance. We want our people to colleagues is at and each level has a clear improve, grow and progress. Criteria are clearly spelled out and those who salary point. These salaries were arrived do progress are celebrated. at by a consultative process, featuring involvement from staff at different levels. Studio Leads have been included in the progression decision process to better inform their support and guidance of team members through this period, and provide additional context to inform the Board’s decisions. Studio teams have been established to foster meaningful exchanges between all level of staff on a daily basis. Our People team is a point of contact for all staff wishing to have a say on how our studios and business operate Our Workforce Experience Manager works directly with the Partners to align their vision and identified business requirements with behaviours amongst the team while also feeding employee experiences back to the Leadership cohort to help inform business strategy and support open workplace culture. We develop career pathways (“flight plans”) for every ThinkPlace role. This enables team members to fully understand progression opportunities, providing a flexible structure to guide their growth as a ThinkPlace team member. Labour Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour What we believe Forced and compulsory labour are Such unethical labour practices often harm the most vulnerable in the unacceptable anywhere in the world and societies where they occur. Beyond that, they also deprive developing contravene the most fundamental of human nations and societies of the opportunity to ethically increase skills and rights. ThinkPlace is determined to play its part human resources, and to educate children who in later life will form the in eradicating these horrendous practices. capable, ethically-developed labour markets of tomorrow. Given the nature of our work takes us to many These challenges are central to the ThinkPlace sense of purpose. Across, developing nations, we are particularly aware Asia, Africa and the Pacific we are engaged every day on projects that of the risks and dangers associated with work to build and strengthen capabilities and equitable opportunities in forced and compulsory labour. developing nations and emerging labour markets. We treat our staff fairly, striving to be an employer of first choice in a competitive labour market. We make them collaborators in a shared enterprise and we take a fully transparent approach to their responsibilities and conditions. We seek to hire and retain the very best people. They deserve the best treatment. Under the ThinkPlace Global Network our offshore studios – though operating as separate business entities – are bound to adhere to the same ethical framework as our Australian business. This ensures that the high standards we set at home travel with us when we embark on work in other nations, where workers are potentially more vulnerable to exploitation. How we show it The ThinkPlace Ethics Screening Policy examines potentially-sensitive projects and partners for any transgressions of this Under the ThinkPlace Code of Conduct, employees are duty-bound to nature before project contracts are signed. report back to their manager if they have witnessed what they believe to be Significant doubts or questions around forced or compulsory labour as part of a project they are working on. forced labour or unfair labour practices would be sufficient cause to void a project ThinkPlace Australia employment contracts are written in accordance with under this policy. Australian Labour laws and are written in plain English. ThinkPlace Australia’s role in the ThinkPlace ThinkPlace continues to adhere to the Australian National Employment Global Network means studios in other Standards outlined in the Fair Work Act 2009 in all of our employment nations must share the same level of agreements. commitment to responsible and ethical industrial relations as our Australian We are working with external providers to develop a training package and business. support service to build our team’s capability in engaging cohorts who have experienced trauma, while also enabling them to protect themselves and each other from vicarious trauma. Part of this will be providing and encouraging engagement with professional supervision services to ensure our team always feels capable and supported in any context. We maintain a completely flexible and trust-based time in lieu process that allows our team members to self-manage their work life balance around project requirements. It has been a People Team focus to proactively follow up and encourage this behaviour amongst the team, and we are working through a “traffic light / flagging” system of efficiently identifying team members who may require assistance. SDGs at ThinkPlace Adopting the United Nations 17 Sustainable Development Goals as our guiding purpose has absolutely transformed ThinkPlace and the work we do. But we wanted to go further. We wanted to know: How might we more consciously connect the SDGs with our everyday practice as designers, as changemakers and as employees of the company called ThinkPlace. That’s why we decided to hardwire the SDGs into our company’s organisational structure. We are making it clear: Commitment to these goals is not an abstraction, to be kept separate from the everyday operations of our people. It is at the core of what we do. ThinkPlace has created four new positions, filling each of them with a member of our leadership group. The four ‘sector leads’ each have responsibility for a number of connected SDGs. QWhat & A we believe Natalie Coyles TP: You are the Lead for Vibrant Communities. What does that cover? Sector Lead, Vibrant Communities NC: Vibrant Communities is a sector that covers five SDGs: No Poverty, Quality Education, Gender Equality, Reduced Inequalities and Sustainable We sat down with Vibrant Communities Lead Natalie Cities and Communities. Coyles to find out more: These goals intersect to tell a story and lay out a need. It’s about TP: What does it mean to be an SDG Sector Lead? empowering communities to be capable and engaged in tackling their own challenges. NC: It’s about being really intentional. This is an emerging approach and its one that -as far as we’re To have a sense of unity and support for each other and to be cognisant aware – nobody else has tried. For us it is about about how some of the challenges they face intersect with each other. connecting with emerging markets and existing clients, looking for opportunities where we can have greater impact in line with our support for the SDG mandate. TP: Why are we doing this? It helps us be confident about where our strengths lie. NC: We’ve been committed to the SDGs as a totality for some time. This Where is the body of knowledge and expertise that takes our commitment to the next level. By being overtly cognisant of the we bring that goes broader than any individual single UN position on these huge challenges we are always positioning our work project? It’s about the connections between the work to not just meet the needs of our client (which is crucial, obviously) but we’ve done, the things we believe and the skills our to connect our work to an important global conversation. It helps reduce people have. That’s what will allow us to genuinely add silos by showing the connectedness between different parts of our work. It enduring value where others might just offer a service. allows us to move beyond being simply task-oriented to purpose-driven. “ We know that inclusive co-design is not only possible, it is vital for getting good outcomes QWhat & A we believe Natalie Coyles effective way? Often not. But we know that we are absolutely committed to designing change with the people who will experience it. Sector Lead, Vibrant Communities That opens up scope for capacity building. For example, how might we be TP: How does it impact on the clients we work with? able to build the capacity for communities to seek out and interpret data to underpin changes that are needed? NC: It will help us be more proactive, guiding us to ask: Where can we make impact? Where can we seek I’ve seen first-hand the frustration that can happen when people realise they out new partnerships? And it also helps us to spread don’t have the tools required to design their way out of a situation. We can the ideas behind the SDGs throughout our network help with that. of clients and allies. By and large people are really enthusiastic to find out more about how their individual project might be contributing to something as grand as the SDGs. TP: So inclusiveness is a big part of this, then? NC: Absolutely. We practise co-design and we take it really seriously. There’s a strong equality and accessibility mandate to get to what we would TP: What skills and background do you bring to this? characterise as a vibrant community. The vibrancy comes form a depth of diversity, a shared ownership, an ability to participate meaningfully. NC: I’ve worked as an architect, worked in government…. I’ve been on both sides of the kind of changes that are We often find that some groups, for example LGBTIQ+ people or people often imposed on communities. Community groups are living with disability have their voices left out of projects because it is often volunteer based. That means it falls on those who considered too difficult to co-design with them. We work really hard to avoid have available time to contribute most. Will they always that because we know that inclusive co-design is not only possible, it is vital have the skills or experience to do that in the most for getting good outcomes. Labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour What we believe At ThinkPlace we understand that any real We trust in the talents of coming generations to help create a better world and lasting change in the world begins with than the one they currently inhabit and we are actively involved in projects the potential of young people. They are our to catalyse this process. We also know that in order to grow into being most critical future resource and protecting engaged, productive citizens, children must be given the freedom to be them and their interests is our most serious educated, to lead healthy lives and to participate in their community in collective responsibility. ways that are constructive and age-appropriate. Child labour disrupts and destroys this natural, healthy development process and we utterly oppose it having any place in our world. As an employer, as a purchaser and as a maker of global partnerships we take responsibility for ensuring we are not engaged, consciously or inadvertently, in any exploitation of minors. The transnational nature of our work means that staff are routinely operating in countries where there may not be strong institutional safeguards to protect children or where normative practices differ from those in place at home. We take our positioning in these locations extremely seriously and believe that we can be a force for positive change. How we show it ThinkPlace has clear and non-negotiable As an organisation that carries out extensive fieldwork across Africa, Asia, policies and principles in place around South America and beyond, we take care to ensure that our methods and the protection of children. Many of these our very presence do not cause harm. As an organisation dedicated to coinvolve or are inclusive of child labour and design we also believe that hearing and including the voice of children in exploitation. the design of systems that they will be a part of is important. Our protection of Children policy – Protecting Children at ThinkPlace is published on our internal communications channel. All staff are required to be familiar with it. Material on how to identify and report child exploitation is included in the induction process for all staff. Our research policy for staff in the field, Conducting Safe, Ethical Research, is published on our internal communications channel. All staff conducting research in the field are required to read it. ThinkPlace also has a research manual, which provides detailed instructions on our fieldwork method and deals with issues of child exploitation and how to identify and avoid them. The ThinkPlace approach to conducting research with people in vulnerable situations is another document we have created that gives guidance to staff in this area. Labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation What we believe ThinkPlace takes a strong position on ensuring We embrace diversity, inclusion and gender equality. Our ThinkPlace our workplace is free from discrimination. Diversity Strategy recognises the need for cultural diversity, inclusion We have a longstanding policy of balancing and gender equality to be a considered part of our decision making. our workforce to ensure men and women are Discrimination can take place across a variety of areas, including gender, evenly represented. age, sexual orientation, religious or cultural affiliation and others. We take great care to ensure not only that we do not discriminate against people along these lines but that our workplace attracts and holds a diverse collection of people, backgrounds , cultures and ideas. We also uphold and prosecute these values through our client work. For example, ThinkPlace is proud to be a design partner with the National Disability Insurance Agency. This important agency is introducing the ‘generational reform’ that is the National Disability Insurance Scheme. The scheme enables many Australians living with a disability to play a greater and more fulfilling role in the national workforce. ThinkPlace is helping the NDIA to ensure that the scheme is inclusive for groups including LGBTIQ+, Indigenous and other communities who are in danger of marginalization. How we show it ThinkPlace strives for a 50/50 gender At least one third of our Australian team are of non-Anglo Saxon balance at the leadership level of our background, and our age profile is also incredibly varied, ranging from business and across our business in graduates in their early 20s to people in their late 60s. general. We maintain a strong bias towards gender equity in all of our recruitment This diverse group brings fresh and diverse perspectives to our client processes, especially the yearly graduate work and to our business decisions. It is an asset for a company based on program from which our company is collaboration. supplied with new talent. Where vacancies do occur and new hires are required, Our business advisers including our board are also formed from a gender achieving gender balance is a point of and culturally diverse group. This is a recent renewal for our company and focus throughout shortlisting and interview we are already seeing benefits such as natural bias in our executive team phases. being challenged, new ideas on the table, and progression in areas that will make our company better performing. We look across our business value chain and seek out partners who can assist us to meet our commitment to diversity and inclusion. For example, we have Indigenous and Aboriginal businesses supplying our catering and stationary. This is important to us because we believe in contributing to an economy that is diverse and inclusive. ThinkPlace staff gender ratio Our Work Gender equality is an increasingly important We began by speaking with Agency staff to find out how they managed issue in Australian workplaces. Employers and published their information. We then studied their website analytics to understand that reducing the gender understand how the website was being used before asking the Agency’s gap will increase their organisation’s audiences and stakeholders about their needs. performance. They are looking for advice and initiatives that will improve the We found that audiences and stakeholders used a wider range of the composition of their workforce so all their Agency’s content than expected to learn and source inspiration for new employees can thrive. initiatives. Working closely with staff, we helped the Agency translate the research insights into a vision for meeting these new and evolving needs The Workplace Gender Equality Agency for information. We then developed a digital roadmap that explained how collects data about Australia’s private to get there with clear and prioritised steps towards increasing the impact sector workforce and provides advice, tools of the agency’s content. and education to employers. The Agency asked ThinkPlace to create a plan that will Staff responded to our workshops and focus groups throughout the make their information more accessible for project with positive energy and the digital roadmap was received employers, increase its use and broaden its enthusiastically by Executive, who are now working to implement the high impact. priority recommendations. With this plan in place, employers will be able to find the information they need to improve the gender balance in their workforce and the agency will be able to use its own resources to make greater impact. QWhat & A we believe Cybelle Ledez Sanitation. These areas include some of the biggest challenges we face as societies both in the developed and the developing world. Sector Lead, Healthy Societies TP: How does our work and expertise as a global design company sit with Cybelle Ledez is a Senior Executive Designer at this sector? ThinkPlace and is the newly-appointed Sector Lead for Healthy Societies. She has more than 15 years’ CL: We are doing so much in this space. It has long been a huge focus for experience across senior roles in the Australian Public ThinkPlace. Service, including at Medicare and the Department of Human services. In Australia, we have developed deep expertise in humanising change around digital health. We are deploying human-centred frameworks and What does it mean to be an SDG Sector Lead? We sat methods to ensure that the digital transformation that is happening around down to ask her… healthcare results in ethical outcomes that are designed with meaningful participation from the people who will experience them. TP: You are the new Healthy Societies Lead? What’s that, then? We are working with Primary Health Networks to investigate how data can better inform decision making around mental health. We’re helping shape CL: It’s an accountability that takes in multiple SDGs a fairer system for prosthetic wearers, delivering a better system around that are connected to each other and that have many cervical cancer screening and so many other high-impact projects. intersecting connections to the work we do in the health sector and the ideas that drive and underpin that work. Elsewhere, we are also carrying out world leading collaborations around public health and global nutrition across Africa, Asia and Central America, Healthy Societies includes SDGs around Good Health working with partners like the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and Johns and Wellbeing, Zero Hunger and Clean Water and Hopkins University. “ Our Sector Leads can play an important role by making sure they are on top of new developments around SDGs QWhat & A we believe Cybelle Ledez role by making sure they are on top of new developments and innovative thinking around the goals and can feed this back to our broader staff. Sector Lead, Healthy Societies They can also look for emerging issues and trends that sit within their area. Across multiple countries in Africa we are working For example, obesity is a significant issue in some of the countries where to improve access to sexual and reproductive health we work and there are many ongoing and emerging discussions around services, including testing and preventative treatments how we might tackle it. for HIV. And there’s so much more. TP: Your accountability is Healthy Societies. What does that mean to you? TP: Why have we created these SDG Sector Lead roles? What is a healthy society? CL: They really help us keep the SDGs front and centre CL: I think there’s a big change underway at the moment from conceiving of in a number of ways. They give focus to the goals and, health issues through a crisis model to moving towards something that is while we all share responsibility for pursuing them, they much more focused on prevention and resilience. allocate a further responsibility within the company for ensuring we focus on these areas. SDG Sector Leads Traditionally, communities and governments have been focused on look at the work we are doing and look for patterns. Are responding to health problems as they emerge. They’ve funnelled resources we focusing on the right things? Do we need to focus into treating symptoms and dealing with the end result of processes and more on an area where we are not doing enough? trends that lead to negative outcomes. TP: So they are partly intelligence gatherers? Moving towards healthier societies involves focusing on the health system as a complex system. What are the factors that contribute to a positive CL: Yes, both internally and externally. There is so much health outcome? Equally, we ask what are the entrenched behaviours, interesting work going on around the world relating systemic inequalities or cultural assumptions that can sometimes intersect, to the SDGs. Our Sector Leads can play an important to create the kinds of outcomes we are working to prevent. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges What Whatwe webelievebelieve A precautionary approach is about undertaking measures to prevent environmental harm when there is uncertainty about the hazard or risk posed by certain activities. For ThinkPlace, the nature of our business means we rarely directly face environmental challenges that require risk management in the face of uncertainty. Primarily, our environmental responsibility occurs within a context of greater evidence and certainty about possible harm and environmental sustainability. We identified in 2018 that our application of the precautionary principle could be improved by reassessing our main suppliers and understanding the transparency of their supply chain with a view to environmental responsibility, low carbon and sustainable practices. We have been pleased to discover that, for the most part, our longstanding relationships with local suppliers have provided partners with a strong track-record when it comes to environmental stewardship. How we show it ThinkPlace has a strong environmental policy in place. All staff are expected to be aware of it and to comply with it. While the majority of our work does not pose a risk of environmental harm, our staff are aware and do raise concern if there are potential issues when undertaking their work. ThinkPlace has a policy of preferring suppliers who have a strong record on sustainability and environmental practices. While some of our business activities are known to have an environmental impact (e.g. flight/transportation, printing) there may be others we are unaware of. As such we are in the process of exploring how best to conduct and environmental audit. From this we will be able to identify some key areas to focus our strategic actions to improve the environmental sustainability of the business. Our Work Through our work within the environment sector we have helped identify new ways of working that are more sustainable or that specifically mitigate environmental damage. We work with clients to help them focus investment in more sustainable practices and support messaging to shift people’s behaviours to reduce ongoing environmental harm that often results from actions that deliver short-term gain, but that are unsustainable practices in the longerterm. We have recently led a project to examine how the workshops and other sessions that form much of our business as usual can be refigured to depend less on physical travel and instead deploy emerging digital technologies, lessening the resources that we deploy on travel. Environment Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility What Whatwe webelieve believe Our commitment to helping create a better world is inextricably linked to a belief that it is our role and duty to promote greater environmental responsibility. Part of our mission statement at ThinkPlace is to work towards a world made up of vibrant communities and sustainable environments. We achieve this through the work we do with our clients and our own internal practices. As a co-design consultancy we are passionate about empowering people to be environmentally conscious and responsible. ThinkPlace plays a leading role in advocating for greater environmental outcomes, helping to shape policy in this area and co-designing projects that accelerate the transition to a more sustainable future. We evoke these same values in our workplace every day through the way we work, the products we consume and via the systems we have in place for reducing, reusing, recycling or conserving resources. How we show it ThinkPlace operates three studios within In the past 12 months, we have increased our efforts to operate more Australia (Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne). sustainably in the following ways: As our business grows we continuously reflect on and review our practices to ensure • Purchasing from local suppliers we are minimising our footprint. • Using supplies that have minimal packaging or the ability to be recycled • Using suppliers who have active and ongoing sustainable use policies • Expanding our recycling facilities across all studios to include soft plastics and organic waste • Introducing ‘urban composting’ facilities in our Melbourne studio • Providing reusable coffee ‘keep-cups’ and water bottles for staff • Providing waxed-cloth food covers to remove need for cling-film plastics • Installing white board walls around our studios in order to minimise paper use • Reducing paper use through reusable ‘wipeable’ post-it notes • Encouraging the use of bicycles or public transport to get to/from work • Our Melbourne studio has a public transport first policy: for all short trips within the area, public transport or walking is to be used instead of taxis or Uber. • Where possible, we re-purpose, sell or giveaway unwanted office furniture or equipment • Selecting building materials that are sustainable and have low environmental impact Reduce.Reuse. ThinkPlace Recycle recycles Our largest studio is in Canberra. We are members of the ACT Government’s ACTSmart business recycling program, and currently manage all our office waste upto 7,500 responsibly: sorting into organic, recyclable and landfill items. As members of this program, our staff were asked to undertake a brief online training module explaining coffee how recycling in the ACT works, and what individuals can do to operate more sustainably. We continue to positively reinforce this message by reminding staff about what is/isn’t recyclable. pods each ThinkPlace recycles up to 7,500 coffee pods each year. Our studios also feature a collection point for used batteries and staff year members are part of a local composting collective that picks up buckets of compost that people bring to the office from home. How we show it In addition to recycling and minimising 1. Our gamification staff rewards system, ThinkTopia, provides points waste production in our studios, we have a for a number of different sustainable activities such as: reducing water range of policies in place that aim to reduce consumption, using alternative transport modes, donating to sustainable our businesses impact on the environment charities, and holding knowledge sessions about sustainability related and promote sustainability. topics. 2. For our 2018 End of Financial Year Team Day we held a tree planting activity with Greening Australia, visiting a local farm to plant Drooping Sheoaks, which are the food source of the Glossy Black Cockatoo, a species at risk of becoming extinct in the ACT. 3. We are aware that the largest environmental impact caused by our business is the air travel undertaken as part of our client project work. Our use of air travel remains higher than we would like but has decreased proportionally as the size of our workforce has grown, allowing us to better resource projects from our local offices. 4. In the past 12 months we have introduced an offset policy for these flights. Each year we calculate the total number of airfares travelled by all Australian staff and determine a dollar value which we then donate to an appropriate charity. 5. In 2019 we will donate those funds to Greening Australia, a charity that works with thousands of landholders and partners to create Australia’s biggest carbon sink and establish one million hectares of habitat across southern Australia. Our Work In the past 12 months we have remade ThinkPLace Australia projects include: our organisational structure around the Sustainable Development Goals, installing • Setting the strategic direction and a collaborative program of work to four senior staff as “SDG Sector Leads” direct the future of renewable hydrogen energy in Australia. with responsibility for driving work around clusters of the goals that align with • Collaboration with the environment sector to define a compelling vision our capabilities, interests and business for Australia’s environment and heritage and come up with innovative activities. One of these positions is the ways to work towards that new future. Lead for Sustainable Environments. This reflects the breadth and importance of our • Improving access and usability of land data for environmental policy work in this area – collaborating across development and help inform more effective use of government land. Australia and around the world with partners who share our vision for a sustainable • Transforming Australia towards a clean energy future by creating crossenvironment and low carbon energy future. sector partnerships and world first projects through ARENA A-Lab. • Consumer-centred innovation across the energy sector, working with power generators and networks in Tasmania, South Australia and Queensland. • Rethinking governance in the Department of Agriculture and Water Resources to help make science and data more available to inform decision makers. Environment Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies What we believe ThinkPlace is a rapidly-growing company that We acknowledge the importance of limiting environmental impact for is founded with a declared goal of designing a company, like ours, that strives to be an ethical operator in a global for the public good. This sense of purpose marketplace. is further demonstrated by the company’s adoption of the United Nations Sustainable Internally we constantly look for innovations that help improve our work Development Goals as our own organisational processes, both to increase efficiency but address challenges or issues. objectives. One way we aim to reduce our own footprint is through our use of digital technology. A recent innovation we are trialling is the online whiteboard application Miro. This is helping us build our ability to collaborate more broadly with people online, but also reduces our paper usage as we can run workshops completely digitally. ThinkPlace is predominantly a services provider. We work with clients to design innovative solutions to their complex problems. In this way we are well-placed to make an impact encouraging and facilitating the broader adoption of environmentally friendly technologies outside of our four walls. Our very existence is based on encouraging clients to act in ways that create public good. How we show it ThinkPlace has an Environmental Policy • Wherever possible, we use video conferencing to carry out meetings that specifies the nature and extent of our with staff and clients in other locations. commitment to sustainability. All staff are expected to be familiar with it. • We are starting to use more digital ethnography as part of our user research. And where we work internationally we aim to partner with local providers for research recruitment and undertaking ethnographic research, which reduces the need for our staff to travel. • Our resourcing processes focus on assembling teams based around an objective assessment of core competencies, availability and location. This should result in a more efficient distribution of staff, further reducing the need for air travel. • Our studios are not just workplaces for our people; they are venues that host more than 30,000 clients and visitors each year. Within this context there is significant scope to not only reduce impact but to demonstrate leadership. Our studios make use of recycled furniture, and our guests are served locally and sustainably sourced food. We provide water in recycled, glass receptacles and do not supply guests with single-use bottled water. • As part of our report last year, ThinkPlace resolved to conduct an independent, external audit of our environmental footprint. We are currently in the process of finalising an environmental audit. This will help us to identify areas where we are performing in line with our values and aspirations, as well as areas where there is room for improvement. Our Work During the past 12 months, we have run several projects looking at designing and establishing community models for sustainable energy use. One example is looking at how people who want to live/ work off the grid might organise a more distributed network to do so, leveraging on broader community action, which in turn creates a larger impact for sustainability. Another example is in the innovative space of Hydrogen energy, where we have worked with the Hydrogen Taskforce informing their strategic planning for the future of this energy in Australia. When created sustainably hydrogen offers our county a fantastic ‘clean’ alternative to natural gas. Also, for the transport sector, which is one of the major sources of air pollution in Australia, hydrogen vehicles are a promising solution. Our Work Beyond the energy and environment sectors, we continue to work on digital transformation projects. This is a core part of our business. As such, we are committed to introducing innovations that vastly improve connectivity and communication within complex systems and organisations. This results in a diminished use of paper and other physical resources (as key processes are digitally transformed) and a corresponding diminished requirement for travel. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery What we believe ThinkPlace is vigilant about fighting and We do this in two ways: Firstly, in our business we have a clear and strong resisting corruption both at home in Australia position on corruption, extortion and bribery. Secondly, we work with and wherever we encounter it during our work agencies who fight corruption, extortion and bribery as part of their core around the globe. business. Our mission is to ‘move the needle’ on sustainable development Goals such as End Poverty and No Hunger. In the developing nations where we often work corruption is a parasite that depletes resources, multiplies inaction born of cynicism and acts as a handbrake on positive change. Wherever we find it we oppose it. Our business processes and organisational culture are created and nurtured to be resilient to corruption. With a robust ThinkPlace Code of Conduct and Ethics protocol we provide our people with clear guidance on how to deal with corruption. Our organisational culture and the way we work together further strengthens this resilience. How we show it We have a robust ThinkPlace Code of • Mandatory staff training on our ethics protocol and code of conduct, Conduct and Ethics protocol that provide with regular refresher training. This training is updated regularly to our people with clear guidance on how to encompass emerging issues and trends. deal with corruption. • Strict policy on acceptance of gifts; upper limit of $50 on any gifts that can be accepted during work in the field. Gifts above this amount must be refused and the overture must be reported. • Mandatory reporting for any staff who are approached or who witness corrupt activity. • We practice daily touch-ins while on field work to ensure open channels for communication about any corruption, extortion, bribery. • We practice project debriefs after field work to ensure our people have the opportunity to further discuss any events that were troubling, and to inform our own continuous improvement. • Penalties for corrupt behaviour are termination of employment and the immediate involvement of appropriate law enforcement agencies. Our Work We work every day with leading justice and law enforcement agencies to strengthen their responses to complex problems, and to strengthen their capabilities in dealing with complexity. This project work is often not publicised, and therefore difficult to report on, however it spans across service offerings such as strategic planning, innovation programs, public and private sector collaborations and capability programs. Our capability programs include an executive education program that builds digital transformation capability, which is an essential capability in this area. ThinkPlace is committed to ensuring we do not inadvertently work with others who are engaged in corrupt behaviour. Our thorough and systematic ethics audit of every project includes examining partners and ensuring they meet our expectations as ethical operators. www.thinkplaceglobal.com
