COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 2018 To: 2019 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) EXAMPLE [8 Aug 2019] To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Fernand Hosri Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Carina Boustani General Operation Manager 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights SDG1  Financially supports EYWA charity allowing financial independence and double income for families. Working mothers can go on with their productive lives and place their kids at relatively free of charge in a the fully equipped and staffed nursery offering toddlers education, play and love. (can be moved to the labour section) SDG3  Created Queasine, a kitchen offering healthy home cooked meals free to the children at the association and at extremely affordable prices (4500 LBP) to families of working mothers alleviating her home duties and allowing her more quality time with family and better life standards. (also can be moved to the labour section) SDG2  Achieving food security and improved nutrition for families. (maybe elaborate more here?) Labour SDG5  Very profound on the equality of women and their rights within the company, making sure they have equal opportunities within the group and equal pay as per salary scale. 50% of workforce composed of women and 60% of the board.  Started the “Unleash your Creativity” Contest, an interuniversity competition, aiming at including university students in the work force, winning teams are coached by prominent figures from different industries, and get the chance to intern in multinational companies.  Works on strengthening economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all. Offering a healthy secure environment to work in, promote respect between coworkers as well as provide opportunities for growth and personal development. Environment SDG 7,12,13 Enforces strict eco-friendly measures in its day to day processes; minimizing our carbon footprint. Recycling, reusing and reducing among other actions like green offices all leading to a cleaner environment and a healthier community. Anti-Corruption SDG16 We assure business growth by working to fight against corruption in order to grow our economy and develop our communities. Developed our code of conduct that has a complete chapter on this matter. Work with our partners and distributers on how to ensure an ethical behavior between the employees of both companies. We make sure to have a clause stating that we should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Our company tries to resists the solicitation of bribes and extortion combatting bribery. We enhance the transparency of our activities in the fight against it and we adopt measures in order to honor these commitments. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) 50% of workforce composed of women and 60% of the board. 35% of the employees are over 50 years old 100% of Papers, cartons, cans and plastic go to recycling 100% of ink and computers also go to special companies for recycling
