Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Table of contents Sustainability Responsible at Telstra business Message from our Chairman and CEO 2 Ethics, values and governance 16 FY19 Highlights 4 Protecting our customers' data and privacy 20 About Telstra 5 Managing our supply chain 22 Our changing world 6 Human rights 25 Our customers 6 Product responsibility 26 Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Mobile phones, base stations and health (EME) 28 Development Goals 9 Culture and capabilities 29 Our sustainability approach 10 Building culture and engagement 29 FY19 performance 11 Creating a diverse and inclusive workplace 32 Material topics 12 Promoting health, safety and wellbeing 34 Managing material impacts across our value chain 13 Employment and workplace relations 35 Stakeholder engagement 14 About this report 15 Digital Environmental futures solutions Networks 36 Climate change and energy 50 Everyone connected 39 Energy and emissions 51 Customers in vulnerable circumstances 40 Climate change 54 Regional and remote communities 42 Environment and resource efficiency 55 Older Australians 43 Environmental risk and compliance 58 Indigenous communities 44 Disaster relief and recovery 45 Tech for good 46 Social and environmental innovation 46 Telstra Foundation 47 Digital futures program 47 For more information about our sustainability approach and performance, as well as access to our Sustainability Report 2019 Data Pack and additional downloads, please visit our sustainability reporting website. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 1 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Message from our Chairman and CEO Keeping the connection and for this we sincerely apologise. Despite our best efforts and intentions, unfortunately we do not always meet the Telstra traces its origins back more than 100 years and our focus high standards our customers, our communities and the all along has been to connect Australians to each other and the nation expect of us. We will keep listening, learning, investing world using the best technology available. That focus has not and innovating to continue to earn the trust that millions of changed but the world has and we are changing too – faster Australians place in us every day. and more profoundly than we ever have before. Our Sustainability Strategy is key to our success and focused on Change at this scale and at this pace brings special challenges, the issues most material for our business, the areas where we particularly for large, incumbent companies like Telstra. have the expertise to make a meaningful contribution, and where Legacy systems, legacy processes, legacy thinking are all we see opportunities to use innovative, tech-based solutions to burdens that must be shed in a world where success is defined address major societal challenges. We want everybody to thrive by agility, simplicity and the ability to respond quickly to in a digital world and are focused on helping our customers and changing customer expectations. Telstra’s strategy to face society more broadly adapt to technological change and the squarely into these challenges – to disrupt ourselves before opportunities it brings. we are disrupted by others – is called T22 and launched in June 2018. One year on, we have made good progress and generated Responsible business significant momentum in what is a three-year change program. This past year the Australian corporate landscape has undergone Through all of this though we have not lost sight of the a seismic readjustment as stakeholders – whether it be bigger picture or our responsibility for managing our customers, regulators or investors – have publicly reminded environmental and social impacts. We know these are large companies of the value they place on being transparent, important considerations for our customers, our suppliers, ethical and accountable. At Telstra, we are committed to our people and our shareholders and that is why – even as our values, mindset and behaviours, particularly in this time Telstra fundamentally changes we continually look for of significant organisational and societal change. We take opportunities to make a difference through digital inclusion, seriously our duty to operate our business responsibly and resource efficiency and environmental solutions. strive to maintain a strong, values-based culture. T22 – reimagining Telstra for the future The roll-out of T22 has created significant structural changes. In FY19 we announced around 75 per cent of the net 8,000 T22 means transforming our products and services to deliver role reductions necessary to adapt our business to our rapidlysimpler, more flexible products, eliminate customer pain points changing markets. The remaining reductions over the next and create a great digital experience. We have listened to our two years will largely be driven by discontinued activities as customers and radically simplified our products, moving from a result of nbn™1 migrations, decreased contact centre volumes 1,800 fixed and mobile plans to just 20, removing excess data and automated processes. While some jobs are being lost, we charges, with no lock-in contracts and fully customisable plans. are also building new capabilities by recruiting 1,500 new roles We’ve also radically changed the way we do business and make in areas such as software engineering, data analytics and decisions, putting accountability for decision-making closer to cyber-security. our customers and placing the needs of our customers at the Recognising the challenges presented by changes to our heart of where we focus our energy and our investment. workforce we put new programs in place this year, including Transformation at this scale is not easy. It has meant difficult a Transitions Program to provide enhanced outplacement decisions have had to be made, including decisions that affected support for those leaving us. Additional training is also our people and their families. But we believe the risk of not underway to upskill team members to work in a leaner and changing is far greater and we are on the right path to deliver on more agile organisation. To support these programs initial our purpose: to build a connected future so everyone can thrive. funding of up to $50 million was made available. We thank all our people – those remaining and those who have left We understand the importance of including all Australians for their contributions during the year. in that future. While we have left many aspects of our legacy behind, we remain committed to supporting our communities, 1 nbn™, nbn co and other nbn™ logos and brands are trademarks of nbn co limited including regional Australians and our vulnerable customers. and used under license. We recognise there have been times this year when we have not met the expectations of our customers and the community Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 2 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Digital futures their carbon emissions through the use of cloud technology. These are just some of the reasons why we were recognised As digital technologies play an increasingly central role in by CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) on the 2018 our lives, there remains a significant gap between those who Climate A-list as one of only three Australian companies to are connected and those who are not. In FY19 we focused on receive an A-rating. consolidating the gains made over recent years to increase digital inclusion and ensure our new suite of products and In terms of operational efficiency, this year we achieved services enhances this. a 40 per cent reduction in our carbon emissions intensity and collected 15.5 tonnes of customer mobile phones This year we helped around one million vulnerable customers and accessories for recycling. to stay connected and trained almost 36,000 people through our digital capability programs. Transforming Telstra We also continued to strengthen our network coverage across While T22 represents a bold new strategy for Telstra we Australia. Of the $8 billion invested in our networks since 2016, remain committed to the core values that drive our business. more than $3 billion has been invested in regional Australia. To underscore that we remain a proud supporter of the United While this is significant, we remain acutely aware that many Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and continue smaller communities do not enjoy the connectivity benefits to make progress against our SDG commitments this year. Many enjoyed by those in metropolitan areas. of our achievements this year wouldn’t be possible without the Delivering more connectivity and better networks in these strong partnerships we have forged with governments, business locations is no easy thing, particularly in a country as large partners and non-profit organisations. We are also a signatory and as sparsely populated as Australia. But Telstra is making to the United Nations Global Compact and remain committed every effort to lead the way. Of the 1,000 towers erected under to supporting its principles – on human rights, labour rights, the Federal Government’s Blackspot program, 800 have environment and anti-corruption – wherever we operate. been erected by Telstra, four times more than the rest of the This has been a challenging year but even as T22 reshapes industry combined. In addition, we have pioneered the use Telstra for the future we remain focused not just on what we of new and more affordable technologies like satellite small do, but how we do it. We hope you enjoy reading our Bigger cells, mobile boosters to increase coverage on the road, and Picture 2019 Sustainability Report and welcome your feedback. introducing co-investment capital solutions. We will not be able to connect every last person in the country, but our commitment is to listen, work cooperatively with councils and other stakeholders, and do our absolute best to bridge the gap between town and country better than anyone else. Our investment has also positioned Telstra as a world leader in 5G, the next generation of mobile telecommunications technology. 5G opens the door to the widespread use of new technologies like the Internet of Things and virtual reality and this year we delivered on our commitment to be the first company in Australia to begin rolling out a commercial 5G network for our customers. Environmental solutions We are committed to managing our environmental impacts Andrew R Penn John P Mullen and helping our customers and communities to do the same. CEO and Managing Director Chairman We accept our responsibility to help facilitate low-carbon growth, to minimise our emissions, and to improve community resilience to a changing climate. We’ve invested $4.7 million in improving the energy efficiency of our facilities, as well as developed a cloud calculator tool to assist customers reduce Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 3 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions FY19 highlights FY19 highlights $27,807m1 $2,149m Total income Net profit after tax Episode Net Promoter Score up 6 points from last year 31% 67% sustainable engagement female representation score achieved 40% 20 Around 1m reduction in our emissions intensity simplified plans in-market, vulnerable customers from a baseline year of FY17 replacing 1,800 helped to stay connected 36,000 2,986 $110.3m people trained through tonnes of e-waste collected of value through our social and our digital capability programs with a recycling rate of 99.97% community investment programs 1 Excluding finance income Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 4 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions About Telstra Telstra is Australia’s leading telecommunications and We bring innovative and intuitive products and services technology company. to market, and offer a broad suite of media, content and connectivity options in Australia, as well as connectivity Our world-leading networks cover 99.5 per cent of the and enterprise services globally. Australian population, and we facilitate over 2,000 network points of presence in more than 200 countries and territories For more information about our business structure and around the world. strategy, please refer to our 2019 Annual Report. We have a diverse range of customers including consumers, small business, large enterprises and government organisations. One of Australia’s largest shareholder bases, with around 1.3 million 350 shareholders retail stores around Australia 1.4 million 3.7 million 18.3 million standalone voice customers retail bundles and standalone domestic mobile retail fixed data services customer services 50 million voice calls 2.8 petabytes of data are carried over our mobile network each day Mobile networks covering 99.5% of Australia’s population More than facilitating over 400,000km 2,000 of subsea cable network points of presence across the globe Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 5 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our changing world Technological disruption is fundamentally changing the way Competitive dynamics are also shifting, with many players in the the world works. Businesses and communities are creating and mobile space catering to a diverse range of customer segments. responding to shifts that would have seemed unimaginable even The continued rollout of the nbn is further altering our place a few years ago. Telstra’s products and services play a central in Australia’s fixed service market, where we are moving from role in the daily lives of millions of people, and technologies such being a network operator to one of many retailers competing in as ultrafast 5G mobile, artificial intelligence, software-defined a lower-margin environment. networking, and the Internet of Things (IoT) are transforming In the face of this rapidly-evolving competitive environment markets and redefining the future of work. we must radically reimagine our business to maintain our The pace of change and innovation is having a transformative position as Australia’s leading telecommunications provider. effect. Most people today have access to more content and Our T22 strategy is our plan to do this. We are well positioned information at the touch of a button than previous generations to leverage our brand and reputation, a growing customer base, did in a lifetime. While technology is revolutionising access world-leading networks, and cutting-edge technologies to to education, healthcare and financial services for millions help us to achieve our purpose to build a connected future of people, it is also raising important questions about so everyone can thrive. consumer privacy, the ethical implications of emerging For more information on our progress in implementing our technologies and the future of work. These questions make T22 strategy, please refer to our 2019 Annual Report. it more important than ever that we deliver our products and services responsibly, and champion their responsible use. As a leading telecommunications company, we have a particular responsibility to help bridge the digital divide. Increasing stakeholder expectations, coupled with a declining trust in business means the relationship between business and society is changing. Our operations and the way our workforce performs are also fundamentally changing as a result of new technologies and business processes. Customer expectations continue to grow and diversify in line with technological advances, and rapid changes in IT systems, data access and privacy regulation are all creating a more challenging market. We need to continue to invest today to handle the demands of the future. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 6 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our customers We operate in an environment of constant technological change Australia’s best mobile network and disruption. Our customers want to be able to access the best In this digital age, our customers are more reliant than ever products and services when and where they need them. before on the breadth, speed and reliability of our network. T22 is our roadmap to deliver what our customers want. It’s We are investing billions of dollars each year to deliver a three year strategy to radically simplify our products and Australia’s best mobile network, which reaches 99.5 per cent services; improve and digitise the experience for our customers; of the Australian population and has faster speeds in more and simplify how we work so it is easier for our people to deliver places. For more information on our network investments great service. By doing this we are transforming Telstra. We are and performance, see the Networks section of this report. becoming a company that is easy to interact with, that offers Making business simpler great service and provides easy-to-understand and flexible We are also working to improve the Telstra experience for our products, all supported by Australia’s largest and most reliable business customers. mobile network and world-class technology to deliver a marketleading customer experience. We radically changed the way we interact with our large Enterprise customers through the introduction of a new, More flexibility, greater personalisation digitised platform. This provides a single view of the customer, We know our customers lives are busier and more prone to and a single source of truth for sales teams across Telstra change than they have ever have been. This has changed what Enterprise, to drive better collaboration and the right customer people come to expect of their products and services. Our new conversations. Team members can focus, gain context and plans are responding to this, providing customers with greater intelligence while working on their customer accounts. These freedom, transparency and flexibility. platforms deliver on our digitisation commitment of creating Our customers can now customise their Telstra fixed and brilliant digital experiences and enabling us to significantly mobile products to suit their lifestyle. We’ve also radically improve our responsiveness. simplified our product offering: in FY19 we reduced the number Our small business customers told us how important trusted of plans in market from 1,800 to 20. service and simpler, easier-to-understand products are to them. In February 2019 we announced the end of lock-in contracts In response: for home broadband services. Our new home broadband plans • We now have unlimited data as standard on all our Business reflect our commitment to introduce flexible plans, giving our Bundles. That’s with the added reliability of mobile backup customers the choice to add the options they value to their on our 4G network via our Business Smart Modem, as well as service. We’ve also made home broadband less complicated, add-on features such as extra devices, SIMs and solutions. by reducing our previous range of bundled offerings down to two core plans: a $70 per month Essential plan and a $90 per • We introduced the Telstra Business nbn Connection Kit month Unlimited plan. Customers have the freedom to upgrade (Self Install Kit), providing eligible customers with a simple or downgrade their plan range on a monthly basis and those who way to self-install their Telstra Business nbn single-line Voice want more can add more by personalising their home broadband and Broadband Service. plan by choosing from a range of add-ons. • We introduced a 24/7 tech advice and support service called In June 2019 we introduced no lock-in plans for mobile services Telstra Platinum for Business, a new way for business owners as well as the ability to personalise plans with the extras to take the pressure off having to employ, or in most cases, customers want to build the perfect package. Excess data be their own IT experts. The on-call IT team can help advise charges are also a thing of the past since we introduced no on, install and set-up new technology as well as support excess data charges in Australia on new mobile plans. Our and troubleshoot a wide range of tech and ICT services. This customers can now tailor their plans and experiences, only may include hardware, software, apps, cloud or payment paying for the extras they want or need. This might mean services, whether they be from Telstra or other providers. upgrading to a plan with more data around school holidays, It’s available on a monthly subscription basis. adding a sport package for footy finals season, adding international data for that overseas holiday or, for our business customers, scaling their plan with the peaks and flows of their business. Customers can also build personalised services by adding their choice of the latest devices, entertainment, sport and accessories, and pay for these monthly; they just need to pay out their device if they want to leave early. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 7 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions • We have tripled the number of small business specialists NPS for our Enterprise segment reflects our transition to a in all our retail stores around the country to 3,000, new service model, particularly for the mid-market segment, putting more experts on the ground where small business with both Strategic and Episode NPS missing the FY19 target. customers need them. Reflecting the importance of this segment to both Telstra and the Australian economy, a new Enterprise Customer • At the same time, we’ve also increased the number of small Experience improvement program is being established business specialists in our contact centres and for the first for FY20. This program will focus on improving operational time, we now have small business specialists available on excellence, product innovation and customer intimacy for Live Chat at telstra.com. all our Enterprise customers, including our large Enterprise • We officially launched a new national premium ICT channel and Government customers. for small business customers. Called Telstra Business When combined, these results translate to a whole-of-company Technology Centres, they operate across 28 regions and outcome of Strategic NPS improving by three points and Episode are run by expert teams from our existing channel partners. NPS improving by six points. Our Remuneration Report, which Customer loyalty and advocacy forms part of the 2019 Annual Report provides further detail on We measure customer experience using the Net Promoter how this translates into remuneration outcomes. Score (NPS) system. NPS enables us to measure our customers’ This year, we launched Telstra Plus, our new loyalty program experiences and respond to their feedback. We measure NPS that rewards customers for having their products and services in two ways: Strategic NPS and Episode NPS. Strategic NPS with Telstra. Customers earn points for every dollar spent on is a measure that obtains customer feedback on their overall their Telstra bill and can redeem these against great tech, as perceptions of and experiences with Telstra, and is relative well as getting access to exclusive benefits. Early NPS data to experiences they have with other organisations including suggests that customers who are members of Telstra Plus are competitors. Episode NPS directly measures feedback from significantly more likely to recommend us (+17 against -8). customers in relation to a specific service experience our customers have with Telstra, such as moving home or connecting Product responsibility a service. It is important that we provide our customers with services they can trust, and products that are safe and easy to understand. In a year of transformation and change both our Strategic and Episode measures for our Consumer and Small Business For information about our approach to product responsibility segments surpassed their FY19 targets. These changes see the Product responsibility section of this report. are underpinned by company-wide improvement programs focused on improving our operational excellence by identifying and eliminating the causes of unnecessary customer effort, increasing the value and innovation that our customers receive in our products. These programs have delivered our strongest ever Consumer and Small Business NPS results. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 8 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Priority goals comprise 17 goals and 169 targets aimed at addressing the world’s most significant development challenges. Working with government and civil society, businesses have an important role to play in achieving these goals. At Telstra we see technology as an enabler of action on the SDGs. We are committed to achieving gender equality at Telstra and This is reflected in the focus of our Sustainability Strategy. have implemented a range of policies, programs and engagement initiatives to help us achieve this goal. Telstra is also a signatory Our strategy is aimed at helping people to thrive in a digital to the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. world. It includes initiatives and targets to address our impacts and opportunities in relation to the four priority SDGs listed to the right. Our SDG priorities reflect the areas we believe Telstra is best placed to contribute to, given our role as a major Australian employer and a leading telecommunications In the midst of organisational change, we remain committed and technology company. to providing meaningful and productive work. This commitment For more information on how our SDG priorities are reflected extends across our value chain and into developing the skills in our Sustainability Strategy, our FY19 performance we will require in the future. Our approach focuses on living highlights, and the stages across our value chain where we our values and includes building a diverse and inclusive can make the greatest impact, please see our sustanability workforce that reflects our customers and the countries reporting website. in which we operate. It is underpinned by our commitment to work to eradicate modern slavery and protect labour rights. It includes supporting future generations of digital innovators Timeline of SDG action and problem solvers build STEAM (Science, Technology, 2016 Engineering, the Arts and Mathematics) capability. We undertook an assessment to determine which SDGs best reflect our business context and strategy, our ICT capabilities, as well as our key risks and impacts across our value chain. We identified four priority SDGs for We believe that the more connected people are, the more Telstra to contribute towards. opportunities they have. We are making significant investments 2017 in our network infrastructure to extend our coverage across rural We developed and launched our Sustainability Strategy, and regional Australia, improve network resilience, and ensure incorporating initiatives and targets linked to our four we are able to meet the rising demand for data and content, priority SDGs. including through the rollout of commercial 5G services, while also minimising our environmental impacts. We also help around 2018 one million vulnerable customers each year to stay connected, First year of reporting on our progress against our and help our communities to build digital skills and capabilities, Strategy targets. through our Everyone Connected programs. 2019 Second year of reporting on our progress against our Strategy targets. For more information on how these targets align to our four priority SDGs, see our FY19 We believe businesses, and technology companies in particular, performance table. have a critical role to play in assisting our customers, and society more generally, to move towards a low carbon future and become more resilient to a changing climate. We continue to reduce our emissions intensity across our business and work with our customers to develop communications and technology solutions that help them reduce their own environmental impacts. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 9 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Our sustainability approach Thriving in a digital world Thriving in a digital world In an increasingly inter-connected world, digital technology is disrupting traditional operating models and helping society to respond to major issues in a more agile and scalable way – from managing the impacts of climate change to making and Ethic s an ent iency dg healthcare and education more universally accessible. As a onm ef c ov er r i e large telecommunications and technology company, Telstra nv urc na so s Re re E ion sp e ut nc has a role to play in helping our customers and society adapt ol o Environme usiness to technological change and the opportunities it brings. nta eb We want everyone to thrive in a digital world. ibl Climate change ls ns Our Sustainability Strategy (Strategy) reflects our most and energy material topics, our SDG priorities, the areas in which we have the expertise to make a meaningful impact, and where we see opportunities to use innovative, tech-based solutions to help address major societal challenges and opportunities. D igi d tal futures e Ev nr oo ne yon co rg The Strategy was developed in consultation with key ct e ed fo ch Te stakeholders, both internal and external, and represents Networks a more holistic approach to sustainability that is informed by, and integrated with our core business activities. Launched in FY17, the Strategy includes three pillars: Sustainability governance Responsible business The Telstra Board is responsible for overseeing, and monitoring We will be a sustainable, globally trusted company that people the effectiveness of, our Sustainability Strategy and policies. want to work for and with. The Board receives updates on Telstra’s sustainability progress twice a year, with further updates provided as appropriate or required during the year. The Board also approves our annual Digital futures Modern Slavery Act Statement, and plays a role in identifying We will foster strong, inclusive communities that are empowered our list of material sustainability topics, which in turn informs to thrive in a digital world. our program development and annual reporting. The Chief Sustainability Office (CSO) is responsible for championing and embedding sustainability principles across Environmental solutions Telstra, managing the risks and opportunities related to current We will use technology to address environmental challenges and and emerging sustainability issues, and working with the help our suppliers, customers and communities do the same. business to deliver social and environmental programs and outcomes for our customers and communities. The CSO also For a comprehensive overview of our approach and progress in oversees the implementation of the Sustainability Strategy, relation to each of these three strategic pillars, please refer to working closely with the business to ensure key targets and their corresponding chapters throughout this report. A high level performance indicators are met. overview of the key elements of each pillar, as well as how we are progressing against our targets, can be found overleaf. Our sustainability approach is supported by a number of Telstra Group policies, including the Telstra Group Code of Conduct, and our Diversity and Inclusion, Health and Safety, Privacy, Human Rights, Environment and Disability Services policies. The Supplier Code of Conduct sets out our expectations of business partners and suppliers. For more information regarding our governance of climaterelated risks and opportunities, see the Climate change and energy section of this report. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 10 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions FY19 performance Focus area 2020 target SDG Progress More info priorities alignment Responsible business Ethics and governance 100 per cent completion of our Goal 8 Rolled out new business-wide See page 16 Being ethical, responsible and new enterprise-wide values-based ethics and compliance training, transparent in how we do business conduct training which was completed by 98.3 per cent of Telstra Group employees and contractors Culture and capabilities Achieve a sustainable engagement Goal 51 Achieved a sustainable engagement See page 29 Creating a world-class workplace score that is in line with the global Goal 8 score of 67 per cent whereour people can thrive high performing norm by 2022 Digital futures Networks Achieve commercial deployment of Goal 9 First to launch 5G in Australia. See page 37 Delivering leading 5G in all major cities and high demand Coverage built out in 10 cities telecommunications networks regional centres nationally. Everyone Connected2 Provide tailored support, products and Goal 9 Provided tailored support, products See page 40 Ensuring everyone can enjoy services to enable 1.5 million people to and services to 379,000 people the benefits of being connected connect or thrive online this year, bringing the total to 1.346 million people Tech for good Invest $18 million from FY18 to FY20 in Goal 8 Invested $6 million in Telstra See page 47 Using the power of technology to Telstra Foundation funded initiatives Goal 9 Foundation funded initiatives enable all young people to thrive designed to support young people to to help young people to thrive thrive in a digital world in a digital world, bringing total investment since FY18 to $12 million Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Reduce carbon emissions intensity Goal 13 Reduced carbon emissions intensity See page 51 Mitigating climate change impacts (tCO2e per petabyte) by 50 per cent, (tC02e per petabyte) by 40 per cent, and helping our customers and from a baseline year of FY17 based on a baseline year of FY17 communities to do the same Environment and resource Reuse or recycle 60 tonnes of Goal 9 Collected 15.5 tonnes of mobile See page 56 efficiency mobile phones and accessories phones and accessories for reuse Using resources efficiently over the next three years or recycling this year, bringing the and minimising environmental total to 39.2 tonnes impacts across our value chain 1 For further targets relating to Goal 5 please see our FY19 Corporate Governance Statement. 2 This target comprises our efforts to support customers in vulnerable circumstances (including programs such as our Access for Everyone program, the Disability Equipment program, etc) and our digital capability programs (face to face and online training only). For more information see the Glossary. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 11 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Material topics Each year we conduct a materiality assessment to ensure we upward trend in the materiality of our key responsible business are responding to the issues, risks and opportunities that have topics (including executive remuneration, product and service the greatest impact on our business, stakeholders and society. responsibility, climate change, the future of work, emerging-tech ethics and maintaining trust) was the most significant finding of We undertake our assessment in accordance with the Global this year’s review. Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). We identify topics by reviewing a broad range of primary and All high and medium priority topics identified are included in our secondary sources, including direct stakeholder engagement reporting and are listed in the matrix below. Detailed information and feedback. This year our direct engagement included reaching on these topics, as well as how we are managing them, can be out to 80 of our key community stakeholders, as well as over 40 found throughout this Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report. environmental, social and governance (ESG) and institutional Where applicable, more information may also be found within investment analysts to get their view of our most material our 2019 Annual Report. sustainability topics. For definitions of our material topics, please see our Report Each year we consider materiality in the context of emerging Glossary, available in the data and downloads section of our global trends, the UN Sustainable Development Goals and sustainability reporting website. our overall corporate context. We prioritise topics according Emerging topics to their impact on our stakeholders, the communities in which Our materiality assessment has also highlighted a number we operate, and our ability to influence or address related of emerging topics with the potential to become more impacts. They inform our sustainability Sustainability at Telstra agenda and Responsible programs, business Digital futures Environmental solutions significant over time. We continue to monitor the trajectory as well as our reporting. of these topics and ensure we are managing any related For more information on how we have measured Telstra’s impacts and opportunities. impact in regard to each of these topics in FY19, please see our sustainability reporting website. Overall, the results of this year’s materiality assessment were largely consistent with previous years, particularly with regard to our most material issues. The continuing, multi-year Business continuity Ethics, values and governance High priority > People and culture Environmental impacts Privacy and data security Responsible business Societal impacts Customer experience Product and service responsibility Climate change Maintaining trust Importance to Stakeholders Product and service innovation Network resilience Digital transformation Digital inclusion Emerging-tech ethics Network investment and innovation Human rights Cyber safety Workforce capability Diversity and inclusion Energy and emissions Health, safety and wellbeing Industry disruption and competition Product stewardship Workforce changes Future of work Societal and environmental Supply chain sustainability innovation Executive remuneration Regulatory change Community investment Culture and engagement Environmental risk and compliance Mobile phones, base stations Talent attraction and retention < Medium priority and health Corporate taxation < Medium priority Importance to Telstra High priority > Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 12 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Managing material impacts across our value chain Telstra’s influence extends beyond our own operations and For an interactive view of the key stages and structure of as a result, so do our economic, social and environmental our value chain, including our key stakeholders, SDG priority impacts. We therefore hold a broad view of how we create targets and material topics, please refer to the Value Chain value for our business and stakeholders. In accordance with page of our sustainability reporting website. the GRI Standards, the infographic below identifies the key stages of Telstra’s value chain, including our supply chain, our direct operations, our customers and communities, and product end of life. As part of our annual materiality process, we determine where along our value chain each of our material topics are of greatest impact. An overview of our impacts across our value chain can be found in the GRI Index of this report, which is available on the data and downloads page of our sustainability reporting website. Supply Chain Telstra Customers & Community Our purpose, vision & values Manufactured products Products & solutions Customers We purchase products, including We offer a broad suite of connectivity, We curate innovative technologies electronics and network equipment, media and content to customers in and capabilities from around which we provide to our customers or use Australia, as well as connectivity and the world to deliver exceptional for our network and business operations enterprise services globally experiences for all our customers End of life We apply integrated and collaborative approaches to realise business value through increased recovery, reuse and recycling Service providers Networks & operations Communities We procure services including those Our network underpins Telstra’s We aim to embed social and relating to customer support, professional global operations, including our environmental considerations into services, network installation and products, services and overall the business to create value for our maintenance, customer technicians, customer experience company and stakeholders property management and other non-core services Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 13 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement is the foundation of our approach to sustainability. We consider our stakeholders to be any group Telstra is a signatory to, or participant in, the or individual who influences or is impacted by our business. following voluntary sustainability initiatives We regularly engage with our key stakeholder groups to ensure • Australian Packaging Covenant we understand their expectations of us, and respond to their varied interests and concerns. • CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) We want our stakeholders to be advocates for Telstra, and • FTSE4Good are focused on developing meaningful relationships through • Global e-Sustainability Initiative regular engagement and dialogue. This helps us to keep abreast of evolving social and environmental expectations, and to use • Global Reporting Initiative stakeholder insights to develop targeted products, services and • Joint Audit Cooperation programs, and ultimately improve our customers’ experience. • MobileMuster Our approach to stakeholder engagement is guided by the Telstra values. Our engagement takes many forms, including • Supply Nation face-to-face interactions, surveys and market research. We • Sustainable Development Goals are active in industry groups, participate in industry networks • Telco Together Foundation and forums, and have teams across the company that manage relationships with specific stakeholder groups. • Thriving Communities Partnership We aim to build stakeholder trust by being transparent, • Transparency International Australia responsive and accountable. The following table includes • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) a list of our key stakeholder groups. For information on how we engage with our stakeholders, and their key areas of interest, please see the GRI Index to this report, available on our sustainability reporting website. Stakeholder Group Customers Our customers are residential consumers, small to medium enterprises, large companies and organisations, as well as government. Communities We engage with our communities wherever we operate, including non-profit organisations and program partners, as well as community groups and individuals local to our operations. Employees Our workforce is large and diverse – we have nearly 29,800 employees located in over 20 countries. Government We engage with government ministers and staff at local, state and federal levels in Australia, and internationally. Industry We regularly engage with our sector peers, as well as ICT and telecommunications specific associations. Shareholders and Our investment community comprises institutional investors, buy and sell-side analysts, as well as around investment community 1.3 million shareholders, some of whom invest with social and environmental preferences. Media We regularly engage with representatives from print, radio, TV, social and online media at a local, national and international level. Unions We work closely with the relevant employee trade unions including Community and Public Sector Union, Communications Electrical Plumbing Union and Professionals Australia. Suppliers We engage with more than 5,000 suppliers from 44 countries. Regulators We work closely with industry regulators in all our markets. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 14 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions About this report Our reporting Reporting scope Our 2019 Annual Reporting Suite comprises this Bigger Picture Our sustainability reporting covers the financial year 1 July Sustainability Report, the Telstra Annual Report, and our 2019 2018 to 30 June 2019 (FY19) for Telstra Corporation Limited, Corporate Governance Statement. All of these documents are unless otherwise stated. available to download via our sustainability reporting website. We are working to extend our data collection to fully include our Our reporting website features infographics and performance international operations, with a view to broadening the overall highlights tables that detail our FY19 performance, more scope of our reporting over time. Wherever possible and relevant information regarding our impacts across our value chain, under the GRI Standards we have extended the scope of this and a number of documents to download – such as detailed report to include our operations across the Telstra Group, as well data tables, our FY19 assurance statement, report glossary as a discussion of any broader impacts across our value chain. and GRI & United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Index. This report covers the activities of the Telstra Corporation Telstra includes the Bigger Picture Sustainability Report in our Limited, including in relation to its Belong-branded mobile Annual Reporting Suite to provide a detailed overview of our and broadband products. Information regarding the controlled approach and performance into the non-financial topics most entities in the Telstra Group can be found on our website. important to our stakeholders, as determined through our annual materiality assessment. Assurance Ernst & Young (EY) provides limited assurance in accordance The structure of our Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report with ISAE 3000 over a selection of performance disclosures in is aligned to the three pillars and corresponding focus areas of our Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report. For FY18-FY20 our Sustainability Strategy. Material topics identified through these performance disclosures align with the targets set in our materiality assessment have been aligned to these areas our Sustainability Strategy. where relevant. Some topics represent global challenges, such as responding to the threat of climate change and respecting Additionally, we obtained limited assurance over our application human rights. Others are key challenges for our industry, such of the principle of materiality, as outlined in the GRI Reporting as protecting our customers’ privacy and data security, and Standards. This provides readers with comfort that we have ensuring all vulnerable customers can access the benefits identified our material topics and reported on them. enabled by modern communications technologies. We also obtain reasonable assurance in accordance with For each topic we have provided an overview of our approach and ASAE 3000 and 3410 assurance standards over greenhouse progress across the reporting period, including our performance and energy performance information as disclosed each year against set targets, with the aim of providing readers with a clear over the greenhouse and energy metrics that form part of our view of how we are addressing our most material impacts. regulatory National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER). Reporting standards For an overview of the metrics that underwent assurance this Our sustainability reporting is prepared in accordance with year, please see EY’s Assurance Statement, available via our the Core Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Standards sustainability reporting website. (GRI Standards); the UNGC Communication on Progress and AccountAbility’s AA1000 Principles Standard 2008. The GRI topics and disclosures we have reported on throughout this report and on our website have been determined through our materiality process. The GRI Content Index accompanying this report contains a full list of disclosures, including their internal and external boundaries and scope, and their alignment with the UNGC and the UN Sustainable Development Goals. In instances where aspect boundaries extend beyond the scope of our reporting, we are working to increase our disclosures. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 15 Responsible business Ethics, values and governance At Telstra, we are committed to acting responsibly and being Progress transparent and accountable, wherever we operate. As the world Fulfilling our purpose in which we operate evolves, our stakeholders expect more of us as a large, iconic Australian business. Amidst this constant We believe it’s people who give purpose to our technology. change, our purpose and values anchor us and guide our actions. So we’re committed to staying close to our customers While technological innovation and digital disruption have and providing them the best experience. opened up new opportunities, they have also highlighted And delivering the best technology. our need to engage with ethical considerations such as how customer information is generated, stored, used and shared On the best network. via our products, services and systems. Because our purpose is to build a We recognise that the long-term success of our company depends on how we respond to changing expectations; not connected future so everyone can thrive. just within our own operations but into our supply chain and relationships with our business partners. Approach Living our values Our values describe what we stand for and guide the way Telstra is committed to excellence in corporate governance, we do things. At Telstra, we have five core values. accountability and ethical behaviour in all countries in which we operate. We believe in creating and promoting a strong, • Show you care • Find your courage values-based culture and we recognise that long-term • Make the complex • Better together success depends largely on how we do business. simple Across our operations, we promote a fair and responsible • Trust each other to culture through our Code of Conduct, and governance policies, deliver mandatory compliance training, and reward employees who demonstrate our values. We have strict guidelines to help employees pursue high ethical standards, avoid corruption and bribes, and speak out freely if they have any concerns about improper behaviour. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 16 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Governance at Telstra Understanding and reporting risk It is vital that our people understand how to identify, assess We are committed to excellence in corporate governance, and manage risk in our business, and that our Board is aware transparency and accountability. This is essential for the of our material risks and what we are doing to monitor and long term performance and sustainability of our company, mitigate them. For more information on the processes we and to protect and enhance the interests of our shareholders have to understand and manage our risks, please refer to and other stakeholders. our 2019 Corporate Governance Statement. We comply with the third edition of the ASX Corporate Compliance training Governance Council’s Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations (ASX Recommendations). Our compliance training is aligned to Telstra’s Code of Conduct, which outlines what we stand for as an organisation We regularly review our governance practices in light of both and how we will conduct ourselves as we work together to current and emerging corporate governance developments deliver our strategy. It stipulates the principles and standards of relevance to our company, to reflect market practice, of behaviour that Telstra expects from all its directors, expectations and regulation as appropriate. executives, employees and contractors across the Group. Our governance framework plays an integral role in supporting Our compliance training covers obligations under our group our business and helping us deliver on our strategy. It provides policies on issues such as health, safety, wellbeing and the structure through which our strategy and business environment, discrimination and bullying, accessibility, objectives are set, our performance is monitored, and diversity and inclusion, human rights, anti-bribery and the risks we face are managed. anti-corruption, privacy and the Structural Separation It includes a clear framework for decision making and Undertaking (SSU). accountability across our business and provides guidance on the standards of behaviour we expect of each other. We monitor, report and manage mandatory For more information about governance at Telstra, please compliance training completion rates, as refer to our 2019 Corporate Governance Statement. part of our training governance framework. Working ethically Employees who fail to complete mandatory Telstra’s Values and Code of Conduct set the behavioural compliance training without a valid reason standards for everyone who works for, or on behalf of, Telstra. The Code of Conduct helps us take a consistent, may face disciplinary actions. global approach to important ethical and compliance issues. This year 98.3 per cent of Telstra Group employees and All Telstra employees and contractors are responsible contractors completed the mandatory refresher training. for knowing and following the ethical, legal, and policy requirements that apply to their jobs and for reporting any suspected violations of law or our Code of Conduct. Our Executives and managers are accountable for creating and promoting a culture in which compliance and ethical business conduct are expected and encouraged. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 17 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Commitment to anti-bribery and anti-corruption During FY19, we received 142 whistleblowing reports and disclosures, which was an increase of 41 per cent compared We prohibit corruption, bribes or kickbacks to FY18. During this period we actively promoted the Telstra Whistleblowing policy to our people and this may be reflected of any kind. in the increase in use of the service. All whistleblowing reports we receive are the subject of an impartial investigation. Our mandatory compliance training is designed to educate We completed 134 investigations in FY19 and in 38 of these our employees and contractors on recognising the many investigations the allegations were substantiated in whole forms bribes can take and how to avoid them, even at the or in part, noting that one report might cover multiple matters risk of losing business opportunities. and the types of issues being reported vary in terms of the We expect that our Suppliers and Business Partners acting seriousness of the allegation. on our behalf comply with our minimum standards in relation To report a matter, visit Telstra’s Whistleblowing Service. to ethical dealings which are described in our Supplier Code of Conduct. We seek to ensure gifts and hospitality are not given or Political donations accepted in inappropriate circumstances, including where In line with other major publicly listed companies, we the offering or acceptance may compromise (or be perceived do not make cash donations to political parties. We do to compromise) independence, or be construed as a bribe. however pay fees to attend or facilitate events which allow for discussion of major policy issues with policy Whistleblowing makers and opinion leaders that are organised by political parties. These payments can be considered By law, certain protections may apply to a range of people, as political donations in some circumstances, and are including current and former employees, their relatives and therefore declared to the relevant electoral commission dependants, and suppliers and their employees to report or government agency as appropriate. concerns about unethical, illegal or improper behaviour, or about an improper state of affairs at Telstra. Our Whistleblowing Policy is supported by a confidential process that provides appropriate protections for anyone to report their concerns, a Whistleblowing Service where people can report their concerns anonymously, and professional investigators and case managers. Telstra’s Whistleblowing Committee, which is chaired by the Company Secretary, receives any whistleblowing disclosures and oversees an investigation of each matter and any follow-up actions that are required. Our Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the whistleblowing process. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 18 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Managing our tax affairs Our Australian tax contribution Our approach to tax strategy and governance Telstra makes a significant contribution to Australian federal, state and local government tax revenues. During FY19, we: We are committed to the highest standards of tax governance and compliance with the tax laws and obligations in the • paid $0.9 billion in Australian income tax1, $0.2 billion jurisdictions in which we operate. We pay tax consistent in state payroll taxes and $0.1 billion in other Australian with our business presence and operations. federal, state and local government taxes Our Tax Risk Management and Assurance Policy is reviewed • remitted $0.9 billion in net GST (after claiming input and approved on a three-year cycle by the Audit and Risk tax credits) Committee of the Board. It is also reviewed annually by the • remitted $1.0 billion in Pay As You Go withholding Policy Governance Committee as part of Telstra’s group-level tax deducted from salaries paid to employees. suite of policies. In accordance with this policy, we maintain a conservative tax risk profile. All transactions we enter into are In recent years, our annual payment of corporate income based on commercial considerations. We do not take positions tax has averaged approximately 2.4 per cent of total that are tax-driven, artificial or contrived, or that interpret a tax corporate income tax collected by the ATO2. law beyond its spirit and intent. In keeping with this approach, The Telstra Group’s effective income tax rate was 30 per we may contest tax rulings or interpretations of tax law where cent, which is in line with the Australian corporate tax rate3. we believe we are correct (even if a revenue authority expresses a different view). Where appropriate, we minimise tax risk and Our international related party dealings uncertainty by obtaining sign-offs from revenue authorities. We utilise our international telecommunications network Material tax matters are regularly reported to the Audit and (including submarine cables) to deliver telecommunications Risk Committee. connectivity services and solutions to customers in over 20 countries. Our substantial overseas operations are located We seek to undertake real-time reviews of tax risks on in Hong Kong, Singapore, the Philippines, the UK and the US. all material transactions and are committed to continuous improvement of our tax compliance systems, processes and During FY19, our material transactions with our offshore practices. We regularly provide tax training and seminars to subsidiaries included: relevant personnel and keep up to date with the latest tax • paying and receiving fees for international connectivity developments and tax law changes. • paying for customer and network support services We are committed to full transparency and disclosure in our dealings with revenue authorities. This open and cooperative • paying and charging interest on cash balances used approach includes regular interactions with the Australian Tax to fund our subsidiaries’ day to day operations. Office (ATO) pursuant to its annual Pre-lodgement Compliance Our international related party transactions are based on Review process. The ATO categorises Telstra Corporation Limited commercial considerations and are undertaken in accordance as a key taxpayer for income tax and GST as part of its risk with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and rating of the Top 100 public and multinational taxpayers. Development (OECD) arm’s length principles, supported We have received our Tax Assurance Report for FY17 as part by regular benchmarking. of the ATO’s “Justified Trust” program. The ATO has awarded We seek to comply with Australian and foreign transfer pricing Telstra the highest rating for tax governance, reflecting a high tax laws and have met our filing obligations to the ATO, including level of assurance that we paid the right amount of Australian country-by-country reporting. income tax for FY17. We continue to apply the Board of Taxation’s Voluntary Tax Transparency Code, providing the recommended disclosures in this report and in Note 2.4 of the Financial Statements in the 2019 Annual Report. 1 Income tax paid by Telstra Corporation Limited on behalf of the Australian tax consolidated group (Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned Australian subsidiaries). 2 Average percentage calculated using our net Australian tax consolidated group cash tax paid divided by ATO net corporate income tax collections for the past three years (i.e. FY15 to FY17) based on the Commissioner of Taxation’s Annual Report 2016/17. 3 See Note 2.4 of the Financial Statements in the 2019 Annual Report. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 19 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Protecting our customers’ data and privacy Approach In FY19, we had four privacy incidents requiring notification to the Office of the Australian Information Commissioner We are committed to being transparent with our (OAIC) with approximately 400 customers impacted in total. customers about how we collect, use and manage In all cases, we directly contacted the impacted customers their personal information. to discuss concerns they may have had and offered solutions We manage privacy and data access through our Code of appropriate to their situation, such as offering new service Conduct, policies and security controls which commit our numbers, new account numbers, credits on their account employees to strict standards of privacy and confidentiality, or referral to third party identity and cyber support services. and protect data from intrusions and unauthorised access. All impacted individuals have confirmed that issues associated We have robust processes and operational guidelines in place with their breach have been resolved. to ensure we comply with all relevant privacy regulations including notifiable data breach reporting, General Data Protection Regime (GDPR) and lawful information requests Telstra Locator from government and law enforcement agencies. This year we launched Telstra Locator, a subscription -based finding service that helps customers keep tabs Progress on their items – from keys and bags to bikes, pets and Protecting our customers’ privacy even business assets like tools and vehicles. As part of our approach to protecting our customers’ personal By attaching a Telstra Locator Tag to their valuables, information and our networks from unauthorised access, we customers will be able to use the Telstra Locator App use a combination of technical solutions, security controls to help find their possessions if they go missing. Telstra and internal processes. Locator securely reports the last known approximate location of the customer’s item, and automatically Our employees and contractors are subject to the Telstra Code updates location information in the background when of Conduct, which requires them to treat the personal and in range of the Telstra Locator Network. A key differentiator confidential information of others with respect at all times. of Telstra Locator is that it uses compatible parts of the We continue to adapt our privacy framework by expanding Telstra Air Network and the Telstra Locator Bluetooth existing practices to reflect new ways of working and by Community (a crowd-sourced community of users’ continuing to implement ‘privacy by design’ principles when devices, including Telstra 24x7 App users who have assessing new products and services. Our Privacy Statement opted in) to help locate items. provides our customers with transparency about what happens with the personal information entrusted to us. We undertake In developing this service, we were regular reviews of the Privacy Statement to ensure that it mindful of the potential privacy remains fit for purpose. implications, consulting with domestic Our customers’ personal information and family violence technology We are firmly committed to protecting and securing our customers’ personal information and we comply with all experts throughout its design. relevant privacy legislation. We do not share with third parties any information that identifies, or could reasonably identify, Our service includes a number of features designed to a customer except in line with our Privacy Statement or if we protect against the risk of misuse, allowing customers are required and permitted by law to do so. to review and update who can see the location of their devices at any time in the Telstra Locator App, regular Some of the data we collect can provide insight and intelligence notifications about the service and features to protect to assist in planning and forecasting. For example, we against unintended tracking including the ability to provide aggregated and anonymised location-based insights detect hidden location trackers within Bluetooth range. to governments and organisations to help solve planning challenges and deliver other benefits for local communities. This may include assessing how infrastructure and public spaces are used and what future development may be required, as well as movement across road and rail routes to understand what investment is needed to meet future demand. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 20 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Being transparent with our customers We support any effort to make the Telstra’s annual Transparency Report aims to give our customers internet a safer place for all users. more information about our legal obligations as a carrier and carriage service provider. Managing cyber security Like all telecommunications companies operating in Australia, we are required by law to assist a range of government agencies The threat represented by cybercrime is not new. What is new who request customer information for purposes such as is society’s increased cyber-dependency, which allows crime, enforcing criminal law and laws imposing financial penalties, protest, espionage and errors to happen at an unprecedented protecting public revenue and safeguarding national security. pace, scale and reach. This is why we take the security of our customers’ data and networks very seriously. Telstra only discloses customer information if the request is in accordance with the law. We also provide assistance We design, build and manage the security for our global to emergency services organisations in serious and lifenetwork in three main ways: threatening situations. Technology We use a range of technologies and security controls to Types of Law Enforcement Requests FY19 minimise the likelihood and impact of unauthorised access Telstra customer information, carrier 65,564 to our networks and systems. Such technologies and controls service records and pre-warrant checks include logging and monitoring capabilities to pre-empt and Life threatening situations and 5,415 proactively prepare for internal and external threats and Triple Zero emergency calls industry-standard infrastructure configuration. Court orders 408 We continuously invest in our security capabilities, including DNS Blocking 524 maintaining and enhancing our existing technologies to continue to stay ahead of new security threats. We also deploy new Warrants for interception or access 2,871 technologies to ensure we can adapt to the range of changing to stored communications security threats. Total 74,782 Process Our approach to cyber security risk management ensures Removing abhorrent violent material appropriate ownership, oversight and ongoing risk management Following the Christchurch terrorist attack on 15 March 2019, is applied to IT systems, data and risks. Cyber security subject the government passed laws to prevent abhorrent violent matter experts provide oversight, and our risk and internal audit material from being shared widely on the internet. functions independently assure the process. To comply with the legislation we must notify the Australian We also have security processes that include technical reviews Federal Police (AFP) if we become aware that any internet, of projects and solutions, and due diligence of third parties to content or hosting service we provide can be used to access ensure the presence and assess the effectiveness of security material which records or streams abhorrent violent material; controls at critical points. and as a content and hosting services provider we must quickly People remove or cease hosting such material. Cyber security is as much about people as it is about Blocking copyright infringement technology. We deliver programs designed to foster a The Federal Court of Australia has ordered most Australian strong cyber security culture. Carriage Service Providers (CSPs) and Internet Service Providers (ISPs) — including Telstra — to block access to We invest in our people to prepare them against a range certain websites hosted overseas that ‘infringe, or facilitate of different cyber threats. We have mandatory annual the infringement of, copyright’. training for all employees and contractors, and run regular drills on our employees to test its effectiveness. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 21 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Managing our supply chain Approach Telstra direct supplier spend by country As a major telecommunications and technology company, we rely on a large and complex supply chain. Our scale gives us the opportunity to work with our suppliers to positively influence their environmental, social and ethical performance. Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum standards we expect from our suppliers and forms part of our standard purchasing terms. Through our policies, supplier governance framework, training and audit program, we work with our suppliers to assess whether they are meeting our standards. Where we identify concerns about supplier performance, we engage constructively with the supplier, driving improvement to deliver the best outcomes for the workers we are seeking to protect, the community and the environment. In instances where suppliers are not willing to improve their performance, despite our attempts at engagement, we may withdraw from 88% Australia and NZ contracts or switch to alternate suppliers. 6% Asia 1% Europe 2% USA and Canada Our supply chain 3% Other As a major telecommunications and technology company, we have a large and complex supply chain, which constantly changes as we award or change More than 90 per cent of what we spend directly is with suppliers based in low-risk contracts. In FY19, we engaged directly with more countries, as defined by the OECD. Many of our suppliers have Australian-based than 5,000 suppliers from 44 countries and approximately subsidiaries with whom we deal directly. As a result, a high percentage of our direct spend is within Australia. However, geography is only one factor we use in assessing 80 per cent of our total spend was with 100 suppliers. the overall risk of a supplier and we do look beyond our first tier of suppliers in making In addition, our suppliers often have many suppliers these assessments. of their own, who then also rely on suppliers. Our largest category of spend is on information and communications technology (ICT) (54 per cent). These Telstra’s supplier code of conduct items are provided directly to customers, used to provide Our Supplier Code of Conduct (the Code) aligns with information and manage our network and data services, or used by and communications technology (ICT) sector standards such Telstra employees. This also includes services that relate as the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct to developing and programming software, and providing and Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) Supply Chain Sustainability technology support to our customers and people. Guidelines, as well as legislative obligations such as the UK Construction and physical network infrastructure Modern Slavery Act 2015. The Code was updated in February maintenance represents 20 per cent of our total spend. 2019 to clarify suppliers’ obligations in relation to conflicts of The remaining 26 per cent of procurement spend is on interest and cyber security. The updated Code also highlighted non-core activities, such as professional services, travel a new central portal where suppliers disclose their conflicts and uniforms. of interest relating to Telstra employees and labour practice incidents. The information provided is used to help us learn from incidents, prevent reoccurrence, monitor compliance to the Code, and better manage our relationships. This year, we held a forum with 29 of our key suppliers to discuss our Supplier Code of Conduct. The forum provided a great opportunity to discuss best practice and reinforce Telstra’s expectations with our key suppliers. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 22 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Progress We work with our suppliers to assess whether they are meeting Supplier risk management the Code in a number of ways, such as governance meetings and reports, questionnaires and audits. The approach we take To help us make more informed purchasing decisions, is based on the nature of the risks, and the category of the goods we continue to refine our Supplier Governance Framework, or services being provided. which assesses suppliers against twelve categories of risk (see diagram). We consider labour practices, environmental, Sustainability risks are more likely in ICT products and health and safety, and bribery and corruption risks as part services, and construction and physical network infrastructure of sustainability risks. We assess these risks as part of our maintenance categories, which are also our two largest selection and contract renewal process using a combination categories of spend. Within the remaining categories of of questionnaires, documentary review and, where warranted, spend, we have identified branded apparel and merchandise onsite audits. manufacturing, agriculture, and cleaning and waste management as categories warranting specific attention. Supplier risk categories We focus on these areas due to the use of low-skilled and low-wage labour, together with the potential for environmental damage within these industries’ supply chains. Operational Commercial Business Privacy Questionnaires and audits Continuity We monitor sustainability risks through questionnaires and audits. This year, 61 of our high risk suppliers were selected to complete a detailed questionnaire and provide evidence Fraud Information Health Anti-Bribery Security & Safety Anti-Corruption to support their responses. The questionnaires have been designed using external supplier sustainability experts and are aligned with industry standards. We validated the evidence provided in the questionnaire responses and selected 53 Trade Export Labour Environmental Sanctions Controls Practices Practices sites to complete onsite audits by an independent third-party auditor. For some suppliers we audit only their site (i.e. tier To assist all our people involved in purchasing decisions one), and in other cases we audit as far as three tiers down understand how to apply our Supplier Governance Framework, the supply chain. The onsite audits included 45 sites related we implemented an online training program this year. to ICT suppliers, one construction contractor and seven sites More than 1,100 people completed the training. This training in other high risk industries. provided an overview of their responsibilities, and the tools and resources that can help manage supplier risk. This training will continue to be rolled out across the business in FY20, Number of independent third-party site audits undertaken including to our people who manage other third parties (such as licensees and channel partners). Categories FY18 FY19 We have approximately 200 procurement specialists and they Information and Communications Technology 40 45 are required to follow more stringent requirements. In FY19 (ICT) sector all procurement employees completed a new online training Construction and physical network 1 program which outlined their responsibilities and provided infrastructure maintenance information on controls such as stricter requirements for Other categories, including branded apparel 4 7 accepting gifts and hospitality. All procurement employees and merchandise manufacturing, agriculture, are required to complete this training annually with completion and cleaning and waste management rates monitored by our Human Resources team. This year, Total 44 53 100 per cent completed the training. Monitoring compliance As well as relying on third-party audits, our Contractor Management Centre of Excellence (CMCoE) team also We expect our suppliers to monitor their own, and their suppliers’ undertake their own internal audits of our construction compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct and to correct and physical network infrastructure maintenance suppliers, any identified deficiencies in a timely manner. We also require where health and safety is a significant risk. In FY19, more them to notify us if they become aware of an actual breach or than 1,700 health, safety and environment internal audits reasonable likelihood of breaching of the Code. were undertaken. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 23 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Remediation We review the findings of all our supplier audits. Where problems Spend for good are identified we work with the supplier to develop corrective In order to help our people understand that their purchasing actions with agreed timeframes as part of the remediation plans. spend for Telstra has impacts beyond the organisation, We then work constructively on the corrective actions, and we created a three minute animated video called “Spend review evidence provided to justify closing the audit findings. for good”, which was released on our corporate intranet. Findings from the audits conducted in FY19 identified 99 The video explained in an engaging way the principles of critical and unacceptable findings with working hours and responsible sourcing and the different things to be aware health and safety being the most common areas of concern. of in making purchasing decisions, as well as that Telstra These areas are being addressed as part of the corrective has legislative obligations with respect to modern slavery. actions identified. In FY19, 82 corrective actions relating to Since being launched in June 2019 to coincide with the the critical and unacceptable findings were closed. In instances International Day against Child Labour, more than 4,000 where suppliers are not willing to improve their performance, Telstra people have viewed it. despite our attempts at engagement, we may terminate supply contracts and/or switch to alternate suppliers. Supplier social impact This year, we identified a supplier who failed to make Our supported and Indigenous workforce superannuation payments to its employees. We engaged the supplier to correct the issue and pay the outstanding We are proud to continue our partnership with 13 non-profit superannuation entitlements by a set date. However, the groups around Australia to create employment opportunities supplier failed to meet the deadline. After taking all reasonable for people living with disability or from disadvantaged steps to rectify the situation, we issued notice to terminate backgrounds. At 30 June this year, 522 people living with the supplier. We provided impacted employees with the option disability and people from a disadvantaged background to continue working with us by transitioning them to other were accessing employment through the program. Telstra suppliers. These employees were transitioned under Through the Indigenous Workforce Program (IWP), we partner their current classification, pay rate, and with all accrued with 19 local Indigenous small businesses and Ranger groups legislative entitlements transferred. to undertake cleaning and grounds maintenance at regional Industry cooperation on supply chain and remote sites across Queensland, the Northern Territory and Western Australia. The IWP supports the employment of Supply chain sustainability, particularly in the ICT sector where more than 67 people at over 550 sites. there are complex supply chains, is an area that requires crosssector collaboration. We work with ICT industry bodies such as Choosing Indigenous suppliers the Joint Audit Cooperation (JAC) and Global e-Sustainability As part of our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP), we have made Initiative (GeSI) to drive improvements in sustainability practice long term commitments to increasing our annual spend with throughout the global supply chain. Indigenous suppliers, creating a more inclusive and sustainable In 2018, we joined JAC, an association of 17 global supply chain. In FY19 we signed contracts with a number of new telecommunications operators that pools results of Indigenous businesses including fleet and e-waste services, in site audits of common suppliers. JAC’s audits aim to total spending more than $1.75 million with Indigenous suppliers verify that suppliers comply with internationally-recognised in the past 12 months. sustainability standards within global supply chains. Since 2010, JAC has conducted over 366 audits in 27 countries, covering more than 813,000 workers. Since 2016, 46 Telstra suppliers have participated in JAC-appointed audits. Of these, 19 were audited in FY19 and are included in the summary of audits completed and associated findings above. We expect more than 15 of our suppliers to be subject to JAC audits in FY20. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 24 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Human rights Approach we update the compliance plan to reflect these additional controls. Our compliance program will continue to develop Across our value chain, we aim to ensure that we and our as our approach and understanding matures. Our focus for business partners operate with respect for human rights. this coming year will be on ensuring it is aligned with the Since 2011, we have been a signatory to the United Nations requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth). Global Compact, which commits companies to 10 guiding principles on human rights, labour rights, environmental Human rights in our supply chain protection, and measures to fight corruption. Our commitment As our supply chain is one of our areas of greatest potential to respect and support human rights is aligned to the UN human rights risk, we continue to devote significant effort Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and to deepening our understanding of the specific types of is outlined in our Code of Conduct and Human Rights Policy. human rights risks associated with different types of products, source countries and sectors. Understanding our human rights risks We have examined the human rights risks to identify our We prioritise our assessments of our suppliers’ human rights seven most salient human rights risks, which are: performance based on risk and have integrated this process into our broader supplier risk governance processes. This includes our supplier risk assessments, ongoing supplier Labour rights (human rights) Reported in Reported in this this section section management and due diligence as well as procurement including: • forced or compulsory labour training for our employees. • wages and benefits • work hours For more information please refer to the Managing our Supply • child labour Chain chapter of this report. Freedom of Refer Refer to to Employment Employment and Reporting on modern slavery association and workplace workplace relations relations The Modern Slavery Act 2015 (UK) requires companies operating Health and health, Refer to Promoting health, in the UK with annual global turnover exceeding £36 million to safety safety and safety and wellbeing wellbeing publish an annual ‘slavery and human trafficking statement’. To respond to the legislation, each year we produce our Modern Privacy and Protecting our Refer to Protecting our data protection customers’ data customers’ and privacy data and privacy Slavery Act Statement which is available on our website. In December 2018, Australia implemented similar legislation Refer to the 20192019 Sustainability Sustainability Anti-discrimination Report Data Data Pack Pack to the UK and on 1 January 2019, the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth) came into force. The Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth) Anti-bribery Refer Ethics, values to Ethics, Refer to values and requires Australian entities with annual consolidated revenue and corruption and governance governance exceeding AUD $100 million to produce an annual statement. The statement must disclose the risks of modern slavery in the Access to grievance Refer to Ethics, values and mechanisms and governance governance entity’s operations and supply chains and what they are doing to address those risks. Telstra is subject to the legislation; our first reporting year will be FY20 and we will be required to produce Progress a statement by 31 December 2020. Next year, we aim to produce one Modern Slavery Statement which will fulfil our obligations Managing human rights under both the UK and Australian legislation. We will also We continue to embed our human rights compliance plan continue to provide updates on our progress in this report. to manage and mitigate our seven salient human rights risks. The New South Wales government also enacted legislation, This year we updated our compliance plan to align with Telstra’s the Modern Slavery Act 2018 (NSW) which has not yet organisational structure changes. This included reviewing entered into force. Because Telstra will report under the the applicability of each of our human rights requirements Commonwealth Act, we expect we will not be required to against the new functional areas as well as re-assessing each also report under the NSW Act. of the assigned risk levels. As we further define our control environment (e.g. through the introduction of new training), Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 25 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Product responsibility Approach Business handheld and mobile broadband services alongwith our consumer mobile broadband services, It is important that we provide our withconsumer handheld services to follow in FY20. customers with services they can Responding to issues trust, and products that are safe When we become aware of material issues that impact our customers, we take steps to rectify the issue and voluntarily and easy to understand. inform our regulators. In FY19, we proactively reported an issue regarding the way our billing system operated that resulted We are continuously working to improve our performance in in certain customers being overcharged, and an issue where this area. Feedback from customers and regulators indicates customers did not receive alerts notifying them about their that sometimes we do not meet expectations. We take seriously mobile data usage. In both cases we are working to remedy our responsibilities to keep our customers and the community any adverse impact to our customers. informed about our products as well as their safe use and to Critical telecommunications services maintain an open and honest dialogue on issues of concern. Telstra takes seriously its responsibilities to keep Australians Progress connected to critical telecommunications services in times of need. In two instances this year, it was assessed that we had Product simplification not fully executed our obligations in this important area. One of the four pillars of our T22 strategy is to radically simplify In 2017 the Australian Communications and Media Authority our product offering to improve our customers’ experience (ACMA) initiated a formal investigation into Telstra’s of our products and services. This simplification is a direct compliance with its Priority Assist obligations. The ACMA response to the issues our customers and stakeholders had issued a remedial direction to Telstra on 6 July 2018 which identified as significant pain points. In FY19 we delivered the found that Telstra contravened its Priority Assist Policy. It first part of this pillar. required Telstra to appoint an independent auditor to assess Telstra’s compliance with the Priority Assist obligation and to Less complexity, more flexibility provide quarterly reporting to the ACMA. Telstra has accepted In response to customer feedback that our mobile plans the auditor’s recommendations for improvements to our were complex and difficult to understand, we reduced our compliance systems, processes and practices. It is critically plan offering from 1,800 plans to 20, and launched our important that our customers can rely on us to manage this radically simplified post-paid mobile range, which enables vital service. consumer and small business customers to customise Telstra has a long and proud history in providing critical new mobile plans to suit their needs with: telecommunications services to Australians and has operated • No lock-in plans the Triple Zero answer service for more than 50 years. On Friday 4 May 2018, Telstra experienced an unprecedented • Freedom to change their plan once a month service disruption that affected the ability of some people • No excess data charges in Australia to reach Triple Zero and connect with the required emergency service organisations. The ACMA and the Commonwealth • 24and 36-month device payment options Department of Communication and the Arts concluded • The ability to personalise their plan through add-ons. their investigations in October 2018. The ACMA accepted a legally enforceable undertaking for Telstra to implement and maintain various improvement measures, and the These plans go to the heart of what customers need: bill Department also issued 11 recommendations for Telstra, certainty and transparency; a smaller, simpler and clearer range industry and government to improve infrastructure, processes to choose from; as well as flexibility on such things as contracts, and communications to reduce the risk of similar disruptions data and add-ons. in the future. Telstra continues to comply with its undertaking We know how concerning and confusing charges can be when to the ACMA and is on track with its contributions to the travelling internationally. Our International Roaming Day Pass relevant aspects of the Department’s recommendations. ensures customers can roam worry-free and that’s why we have started bestowing the day pass at no charge to our Small Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 26 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Selling practices Managing and minimising TIO complaints Maintaining fair sales practices and the responsible provision We were pleased that in FY19, we saw a 20 per cent reduction of telecommunications products and information to customers in complaints to the Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman is very important to Telstra. In the vast majority of cases our (TIO) compared to FY18. This was a significant reduction, and sales ecosystem, outlined below, works well. the total number of complaints was also lower than in FY17, indicating meaningful progress in dealing with key customer We are aware of a relatively small number of instances in pain points. Reductions were observed against all core FY19 where the handling or outcome of sales interactions complaint drivers with charging disputes down 29 per cent has been unsatisfactory, such as where products and services and complaints related to connecting and modifying services for people living with disability have not been brought to the down 23 per cent. attention of customers in situations where this would have been appropriate. We’re also conscious of the need to ensure We want our customers to be completely satisfied with the our processes and policies relating to identifying and dealing level of service we provide. Our aim is to ensure our customers with potentially vulnerable customers continue to be refined feel valued and understood every time they interact with us and to try and prevent adverse customer outcomes arising. any complaint to the TIO indicates we still have some work to do to resolve customer issues quickly. Where we become aware of instances of improper selling we act quickly to address it, and have implemented a number of We continue to work on ways to improve our customers’ improvements – such as additional training and monitoring experience, including employee training, simplifying or removing tools to help ensure better customer outcomes. In relevant fees and improving the Telstra 24x7®1 App to give customers cases we also take disciplinary action (which may include greater visibility and control of their services with us. We remain dismissal) against sales staff who breach their obligations, optimistic that our simplified plans will assist us to reduce and claw back relevant incentive payments made to stores the volume of complaints to the TIO in relation to our charges. or staff in connection with improper sales. 1 Telstra 24X7 is a registered trade mark of Telstra Corporation Limited For more information, please see the customer experience section of this report. Sales ecosystem Sales ecosystem Recruiting Training Selling We aim to recruit values-driven We train our sales team We listen to our customers sales consultants who are focused to respect all our customers, to identify what they need, on getting the right outcomes obey regulatory obligations and what they can afford and for our customers use ethical selling practices how we can help them thrive Monitoring Incentivising We regularly monitor key metrics We reward sales consultants who that help us understand when we deliver against a balanced scorecard are meeting our customers’ needs of sales, customer outcomes and where we can do better and compliance We take a strong stand against non-compliance Reporting We report regularly to management on key metrics to assess how well we are meeting our customers’ needs Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 27 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Mobile phones, base stations and health (EME) Approach complied with the Communications Alliance Mobile Phone Base Station Deployment Industry Code requirements. One complaint We acknowledge that some people are proceeded to a formal investigation which resulted in Telstra being found to be in breach of the Code and issued with a formal concerned about possible health effects warning. The breach related to Telstra not fully following the from electromagnetic energy (EME). requirements related to community notification. We rectified the issue and have taken a number of remedial actions to ensure We are proactive, transparent and fact-based in our future code compliance. communications regarding EME and comply with the In FY19 we undertook 2,399 community consultation processes. standards set by regulators. A small number of communities, including Caringbah (NSW), We rely on the expert advice of national and international Blackstone Heights (TAS), Kangaroo Point (Qld), Yeronga (Qld), health authorities including the Australian Radiation Protection Huonbrook (NSW) expressed concern through the consultation and Nuclear Safety Agency (ARPANSA) and the World Health process. We responded to these concerns through extended Organisation (WHO), and we actively contribute to scientific community consultation, individual meetings and proactive research on EME and health. community engagement. Progress New 5G mobile technology We continue to provide information about EME on our website now including 5G as well as our EME help desk. We also invite We recognise that some people have concerns about customers to go directly to the WHO, ARPANSA, Australian EME and our new 5G technology and therefore, we Communications Authority (ACMA) and ‘EMF Explained’ have undertaken extensive EME testing on our new websites for further information. 5G network and published customer information regarding 5G on our website. By invitation we presented our 5G The Radio Frequency National Site Archive (RFNSA) is the EME testing results to the United Nations International consultation web portal we use to provide the community Telecommunications Union and World Health Organization with access to up-to-date information about new base station workshop in Geneva in October 2018 and contributed to proposals across the country. The RFNSA received more than the production of 5G Explained. 500,000 visits in FY19 to access information about network deployment activities, and information on EME and site safety. Working safely around antennas All our base stations are assessed for EME compliance, and We continue to focus on our processes and education around the ARPANSA Environmental EME reports and compliance working safely near radio frequency emitting equipment certificates for all sites are published on the RFNSA. including promotion of the RadioWorkSafe application and Every mobile handset we sold in FY19 was certified by working safely on small cells and 5G base stations. the manufacturer as compliant with the mandatory ACMA Radio Communications (Electromagnetic Radiation – Human National and international standards Exposure) Standard 2014. Telstra continues to contribute to the ongoing development of Communicating with our customers international EME standards through chairing the International Electrotechnical Commission TC106 committee, which is This year, we continued our mobile safety information charged with developing standards for the assessment of SMS campaign, sending over 13 million messages referring EME compliance of mobile devices, base stations and wireless customers to our mobile tips, where we have information on communications systems. This year the IEC published a Technical mobile use, EME and tips to reduce exposure. We also updated Report that included 5G base station testing procedures with our website with new information videos on small cells, EME examples from Telstra’s 5G technology. and health. Within Australia, the revised Mobile Phone Base In FY19, we completed 1,938 mobile base station projects: Station Deployment Code (C564:2018) was registered 750 of these projects were for new sites (including 498 small in December 2018. cells), and 1,188 were for proposals to upgrade existing sites. ACMA confirmed that they received seven complaints in FY19, compared to five in FY18, and one in FY17. Six of the complaint investigations have been concluded and found that Telstra Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 28 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Culture and capabilities The world in which we operate is transforming rapidly. To The monthly Experience Pulse and the EES1 tell us this has continue to lead the market we have greatly simplified our been a difficult year for Telstra people. Unsurprisingly, our structure and ways of working as part of a suite of changes organisational redesign and the role reductions necessary under T22. This has meant substantial change right across to achieve this have impacted engagement. Acting on the organisation as we take steps to position Telstra for this feedback from our people, we brought forward the future growth. announcement of further reductions so that 75 per cent of our major, cross-company restructures were announced Our people are an essential part of by the 30 June 2019, providing greater certainty. successfully delivering T22. Our people also identified a range of impediments that were getting in the way of working effectively serving our customers We have been focused on ensuring we have the right culture and making their jobs harder than they needed to be. Taking to deliver on our objectives in line with our values, and the into account solutions offered by our people, we implemented right capabilities to meet the constantly-evolving needs of a program of work to address these impediments and our our customers today and into the future. monthly experience pulse results indicate we are beginning to make progress in removing these and improving our This year has been challenging for many at Telstra. It has been employees’ experience. a time of change and significant workforce reductions as we create a leaner, more agile organisation. Throughout this, our values have guided us: we have supported those employees Reimagining Telstra who are leaving us and invested in training for those who remain To help our people understand why we need to transform with us, both in new ways of working and new technologies and and how we are doing so, we held 46 sessions of our systems. This investment will ensure out workforce has the Reimagine Telstra experience in 17 cities around Australia capabilities we need to position our business for the future. and internationally. More than 21,000 Telstra people took part in these interactive, half-day sessions. Building culture and engagement Reimagine gave our people a deeper understanding of Approach T22, how our strategic pillars and enablers fit together, Our culture is critical to building a connected future so everyone what T22 will deliver for our people and customers, and can thrive and is underpinned by a strong commitment to our how we need to work differently. values. For our customers to thrive, we need to enable our We will continue to invest in ways to involve our people people to thrive. in our transformation so they are clear on their role, how With the challenges of our organisational transformation, they can contribute to Telstra’s future and how we are opportunities have also come for our people to learn new progressing against our T22 roadmap and milestones. ways of working and leading. We are simplifying our processes, reducing layers of hierarchy and impediments, and bringing accountability for customer outcomes closer to the front line by empowering our people to make timely decisions. Progress Sustainable engagement Recognising the need to listen to and act on feedback from our people during this time of immense change, we moved from a single, annual Employee Engagement Survey (EES) to a monthly Experience Pulse. This is helping us to respond to feedback more rapidly and at a local team level – we celebrate what is working well and act on opportunities for improvement. 1 For our annual EES score, please refer to the Performance Table on page 11 Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 29 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Ways of working: Agile at scale We will also be developing a SDN micro-credential in partnership The move to Agile at Telstra means we’re fundamentally with an Australian university. This will allow us to continue changing how Telstra runs, how we organise ourselves building knowledge and skills, as well as providing a globallyand what we do. recognised credential. In FY19 we began introducing Agile methodologies with When we announced our T22 strategy we stated that by frontrunner teams, involving more than 400 people in our FY22 we would invest in 1,500 new roles to build new capabilities Consumer and Small Business and Products and Technology required for the future, in particular the shift to new engineering functions. Their objective was to help us test, learn and adapt capabilities including software engineering and information our ways of working approach for the rest of the business. and cyber-security. As at 30 June 2019, we had hired 683 roles In March 2019 we made the decision to roll out Agile at scale across these areas. across parts of Telstra from 1 July 2019. Going Agile at scale does not mean every team will move to full Agile ways of working. While some teams work in full scale Agile, others are using tools from across Agile, Human Centred Design, Lean and DevOps where it makes sense. And other teams won’t move to any of the Ways of Working suite but some will need to support teams working in these ways. Importantly, we are all taking a more agile approach to how we plan and manage work across the organisation. Working in Agile at scale allows us to bring together cross-functional teams from across the business to work together from the outset of solving a problem, ensuring the needs of our customers are front and centre in the design and execution of solutions. At 30 June 2019, we had provided Agile Essentials training to more than 12,000 people, creating a common understanding of Agile across the organisation. Role-specific training started in March and will continue throughout 2019. Reskilling our people for new roles In 2018 we invited Telstra people to express interest Developing our people in becoming a Ways of Working (WOW) coach. We are focused on empowering our people to deliver to better Our goal was to train 50 people from a range of levels serve our customers. To help them adopt new ways of working and backgrounds, but all with the skills, passion and and leading, learn new skills and master new tools we invested growth mindset we needed in our coaches. over $30 million in training and development in FY19. From store leaders to product owners, executive Upskilling our people for new technology assistants, field technicians and even internal audit, As we transform we need people with the right technology we attracted a very diverse group of talented people skills and technical capabilities so that we can leverage who were passionate to come and join the team and emerging technologies and simplify how we deliver products re-train. After completing a five month program, the first and services. cohort of people are now fully qualified WOW coaches. We have made, and will continue to make, a significant investment transitioning from traditional hardware to a new network infrastructure centred on software-defined networking (SDN) and network function virtualisation (NFV). In FY19, this has included providing almost 2,400 days of training to employees in SDN, Basic and Intermediate Python, DevOps and Continuous Integration Continuous Delivery (CICD), through courses developed in partnership with Box Hill Institute and Juniper. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 30 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Leadership New ways of leading New ways of leading We’re changing how we work and this means we need a different kind of leadership and team organisation. From To As a business, we’re organising ourselves to become more Directive Collaborative responsive to change and this involves empowering teams and individuals to serve our customers. Prioritising and Reviewing and approving removing barriers Leadership is no longer about the most senior people having all the answers Making decisions Empowering teams Deciding and acting and directing the work; rather it’s Delivering functional outcomes Achieving customer outcomes about empowering teams and removing blockers for them to facilitate faster decision making. Building a high performance culture Throughout the year our employees (including executives) It’s also about prioritising collaboration and focusing on set performance objectives with their leader. Along with our customer outcomes. We’re asking everyone to show their customer advocacy, employee engagement, delivery of the leadership – not just formal people leaders. When our T22 strategy and financial results, these objectives form people are leading work, teams, growth or thought, they part of our incentive plans and our approach to performance are demonstrating leadership. To help our people understand management. The 2019 Remuneration Report, which forms what is expected, we’ve clearly articulated the leadership part of the 2019 Annual Report, has further details regarding mindsets and skillsets we want to see in our new Leadership Senior Executive remuneration. Framework. In addition, leadership development experiences Our approach to performance encourages our people to have have been run to support our people in making this change. ongoing conversations with their leaders throughout the year Leadership Capability Leadership Capability Framework Framework for Everyone for Everyone about their development priorities, progress and how they can contribute to achieving Telstra’s strategy and key priorities. In July 2019 we introduced the Quarterly Business Review (QBR) process, which has allowed us to further align individual and Motivate Accelerate Collaborate Innovate organisational performance objectives to a single, businesswide set of priorities, reviewed on a quarterly basis. MINDSET I believe in our I embrace I bring the best I am willing to take purpose and trust uncertainty and together and prioritise risks and value the others to deliver act with courage diversity and inclusion customer above all else SKILLSET I motivate, inspire I create the conditions I collaborate and I encourage risk-taking and empower for my team to develop inclusive to challenge assumptions my team assemble and deliver teams and explore new ideas with speed and agility Our values describe how we want people to experience us, which mirrors how customers experience us Make the Trust each other Show Find your Better complex simple to deliver you care courage together Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 31 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Creating a diverse and inclusive workforce Approach To enable our leaders to strive to build and engage diverse teams across our enterprise, in September 2017 we launched We value diversity and inclusion and the a new recruitment procedure to increase our number of Indigenous employees and people living with a disability benefits they bring to the Telstra Group working at Telstra. Our “interview guarantee” for shortlisted in achieving our objectives, enhancing our candidates means if any external candidates who identify reputation, and attracting, engaging and as being Indigenous or living with disability are shortlisted for a role, they will automatically be interviewed. Our retaining talented people. Sustainability Report 2019 Data Pack contains information about our progress against our targets for Indigenous employees, Telstra serves millions of diverse customers. We recognise the as agreed in our 2018-2021 Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP). value of having diverse employees who represent their unique perspectives. Diversity of thought drives innovation which is During FY19, we have hired 11 new employees who identify essential to achieve our business strategy, and also supports as living with a disability and we continued to participate in our purpose to build a connected future so everyone can thrive. the Australian Network on Disability Stepping Into internship program, for university students with disability. As we transform Telstra, we’re taking a holistic view of diversity, beyond measuring demographics like gender, age and ethnicity, We continued to show our support for LGBTI+ inclusion by while continuing to prioritise fairness and opportunity for supporting events like Wear it Purple Day, International day under-represented employees. Our new strategy will accelerate Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia and the innovation through diverse thinking in inclusive teams and is Midsumma queer arts and entertainment festival. built around three foundational streams: Spectrum, our LGBTIQ+ employees • Diverse perspectives – Ensuring under-represented people are heard and their diverse thinking is valued. and allies’ network with over 1,800 members, celebrated its 10th birthday • Inclusive teams – Creating an inclusive culture where everyone can thrive. in December 2018. • Flexibility and fairness – Flexibility enabled by We were awarded Silver in the Australian Workplace technology. Fair policies and processes. Equality Index Awards in May 2019. More information is available in our 2019 Corporate Governance Statement. Progress We are committed to achieving gender equality at Telstra and have a broad range of policies, programs and engagement initiatives in place to help us achieve this goal. This includes a Recruitment Equality Procedure which mandates a minimum female representation of 50 per cent on shortlists and interview lists for all roles (except some specified roles where a 25 per cent requirement applies due to a known significant gender imbalance in the job market). This year we saw no material change in female representation across Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Maintaining our overall female representation of 31% in a year of tremendous change was a relatively positive result, particularly given the growth of technology roles. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 32 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions We are continuously looking to identify, Representation of women in Telstra as target and reduce any sizeable gender pay at 30 June 2019 gaps that exist within the organisation. Role Number Percentage Board (i) 2 25% The overall pay gap remains 7 per cent, consistent with FY18. Similar to last year, a larger pay gap exists at the operational Executive Management 50 29.6% level and is predominantly driven by a significant portion of CEO 0 0% CEO-1 4 36.4% operational employees being managed against fixed pay rates CEO-2 16 32.0% under our Enterprise Agreement. These fixed pay rates, which CEO-3 30 27.8% are typically in male dominated professions, are notably higher Middle Management 2,652 27.9% when compared to the pay of peers at the same level not aligned to these pay rates. In aggregate, we do not believe that we pay Operational 5,594 32.9% women and men differently for like roles. Telstra Total 8,300 31.1% Telstra Group Total 8,972 31.0% Gender pay equity: women’s earnings as a percentage of men’s earnings in FY19 Level Comparison Executive Management (ii) 102% Middle Management(iii) 97% Operational (iv) 88% Overall per cent comparison 93% The table compares the average salaries across three levels of our Australian based employees, reflecting over 90 per cent of our employee population. * Includes full time and part time staff in Telstra Corporation Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries, excluding casuals, contractors and agency staff. It does not include staff in any other controlled entities within the Telstra Group. Ratio calculated as base salary plus superannuation (female FR asper cent of male FR). ** Includes full time, part time and casual staff in controlled entities within the Telstra Group, excluding contractors and agency staff. Information regarding the controlled entities in the Telstra Group can be found on our website Notes: (i) Number and percentage relates to non-executive Directors. (ii) Executive management comprises persons holding roles within Telstra designated as Bands A, B and C. CEO is also included in the executive management total (iii) Middle management comprises persons holding roles within Telstra designated as Bands 1 or 2, or equivalent. (iv) Operational comprises persons holding roles within Telstra designated as Bands 3 or 4, or equivalent. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 33 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Promoting health, safety and wellbeing Approach Key health and safety performance indicators Managing safety and supporting the mental health and TRIFR wellbeing of our people helps create an environment in which Our Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) has they can be their best selves at work and outside of work. decreased, positively reflecting our maturing risk control Through our global health, safety, wellbeing and environment programs and strengthened proactive and early intervention (HSWE) management system, we strive to embed the latest support model which provides employees with immediate HSWE strategies to eliminate or minimise risks and build access to the care they need to stay at, or return to, work as resilience in times of change. Established HSWE governance soon as they are fit to do so. forums help manage progress, including through the HSWE Executive Leadership Forum. We report regularly to senior TRIFR1 management, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board. Progress FY17 8.1 Licences, accreditations and compliance Telstra holds a self-insurance licence under Commonwealth FY18 9.6 jurisdiction, with direct oversight by the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission (SRCC) and Comcare. FY19 8.5 We are also accredited by the Office of the Federal Safety Commissioner to work on Federal Government building contracts, including the National Broadband Network. Our LTIFR2 HSWE management system is certified to Australian Standard Our Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) increased in AS/NZS4801 and International Standard ISO14001: 2015. 2018 primarily because of a greater number of disputed claims. Preventive programs Our new claims management model will see this trend improve as we improve and embed our effective early intervention and Supporting our employees to improve their physical and mental strategic case management capability. wellbeing is a key part of our approach to preventative health and safety. As we transform we’ve focused on embedding wellbeing and psychological safety into our ways of working, 2016 calendar year 0.84 including how we lead and work together as teams, while also helping our people build resilience and manage change. 2017 calendar year 0.81 We continued to implement important preventive health, safety and wellbeing initiatives ranging from the delivery of a new technology platform for HSWE management to significant 2018 calendar year 1.06 investment in the replacement of damaged telecommunications pits. We transitioned our operational vehicle fleet to automatic 1 TRIFR is the reported number per million hours worked of all work-related injuries or transmission vehicles and maintained the Telstra Good Drivers diseases that require medical treatment beyond simple first aid. Currently the metric Program, which proactively rewards safe driving. does not include contractor incidents or incidents internationally, but we continue to review how this may be measured for inclusion in future reporting. Early incident reporting and rehabilitation LTIFR measures the reported number of accepted workers’ compensation claims per 2 million hours worked for work-related injury or disease that result in one or more days’ Our culture for reporting and providing care continues to lost time. Includes full time, part time and casual staff in Telstra Corporation Limited, excluding subsidiaries, contractors and agency staff. improve. Timely reporting allows us to address issues and implement our early intervention model to provide our people the support they need, when they need it. We extended our Injury Assist service model to include psychologist referrals and support for personal injury or illnesses impacting our people’s ability to return to, or manage at work. This recognises our health at home and at work are intertwined and can equally impact our ability to be engaged, energised and enabled to work. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 34 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Employment and workplace relations Approach Engaging with our workforce We consult with our people before we implement any We have a large and diverse mix of employees at Telstra, significant changes to the way we work. We regularly engage who vary in the work they perform, the hours they work and with the Community and Public Sector Union (CPSU), the their employment contracts or instruments. We carefully Communications, Electrical and Plumbing Union of Australia manage our workforce requirements, in line with our values, (CEPU) and Professionals Australia (APESMA). Our aim is paying particular attention to the mix of skills required as to maintain an open and constructive relationship with the the strategic direction of our business evolves. representatives of these unions. This year, we conducted more than 20 formal consultation meetings with unions and Progress Telstra employees. Key changes within our workforce This included discussions about positive changes to our Changes in our workforce in FY19 were predominantly related Parental Leave Policy in Australia to remove the distinction to the transformation required as a result of our T22 strategy. between primary and secondary carers. From 1 July 2019 any Over the last 12 months we have introduced a new functional parent who is an eligible employee can take 16 weeks’ paid structure and operating model. We have also been changing how parental leave within the first 12 months of their child’s birth we work by removing layers and duplication, hierarchies and or adoption. siloes, legacy processes and systems. From July this year we also moved to Agile at scale across parts of our business. Employment instruments In Australia, Telstra has a single Enterprise Agreement In June 2018, we announced that over the course of T22 there in place covering our workforce – the Telstra Enterprise would be a net reduction of 8,000 direct roles at the company. Agreement 2015-2018 (EA). The EA nominally expired on By 30 June 2019 we had announced around 75 per cent of those 30 September 2018. However, it continues to operate after reductions. Over the past year we have also reduced our indirect this date until replaced by a new EA or terminated by the workforce by 5,804 and we anticipate further reductions in the Fair Work Commission. next two years that together will see the indirect workforce over 25 per cent smaller than in June 2018. The remaining reductions In 2018 we commenced negotiations for a replacement over the next two years will largely be driven by discontinued Enterprise Agreement with nominated bargaining activities as a result of the end of nbn migrations, decreased representatives and the three unions which represent contact centre volumes and automated processes. our employees. Approximately 25,000 employees are in scope for enterprise bargaining and had the opportunity Our aim is to mitigate the impacts of any structural changes on to vote on the proposed new Enterprise Agreement in August our people by making all reasonable efforts to appoint affected 2018. While employees voted to reject our initial proposal, employees to other suitable roles within Telstra. When this we still passed on the first pay increase on offer of 1.5 per is not possible we provide a comprehensive redeployment cent for FY19 to ensure our people were not disadvantaged and career transition program for employees whose roles are whilst bargaining continued. affected by redundancy. Given the scale of the reductions we have been using an initial fund of up to $50 million to assist Negotiations with the relevant unions are continuing and are our people. As part of this we have been providing a transition constructive, although no agreement has yet been reached. program with enhanced outplacement support for those leaving We remain committed to negotiating for a simple, fair enterprise us. And we have been providing support to those remaining to agreement which delivers on the needs of our employees as upskill and transition to new ways of working in a leaner and well as our customers and shareholders. Some members of one more agile organisation. In addition, all employees and their Telstra union undertook a period of protected industrial action families are provided access to professional support services, throughout March and April 2019. There were no customer funded by Telstra, through our employee assistance program. impacts as a result of this action and less than five per cent of employees chose to participate. As at June 30 2019, Telstra Corporation’s total direct workforce was approximately 22,000 people. Telstra Group’s total global workforce was nearly 29,800 (full-time equivalent). We employ 4,763 people outside of Australia across 13 countries, equating to 16 per cent of our total workforce. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 35 Digital futures Networks Networks Progress The digital world is transforming the way we live. We are Investing in our networks empowered to learn in new ways, to communicate differently, We are committed to making significant investments to build and take greater control of our health, finances and learning. capability for the future and strengthen our network leadership. Our reliable network and technology capabilities keep millions In addition to routine network investments, we are also building of consumers and businesses connected every day. networks that underpin the way our customers will work, learn We have a long history of investing in the next generation of and play for years to come. mobile and fixed network services, expanding coverage and Our Networks for the Future program will transform our networks resilience, digitising our systems and processes, and making to support the connected world of the future. Our investment will major improvements to our customers’ experience with us. This build improved network resilience, continue telecommunications has enabled Telstra to be a world leader in telecommunications transformation with 5G, support the Internet of Things (IoT) technology. We were the first to launch 5G in Australia and and move to a world where our network is software-defined already have 5G coverage in selected areas of 10 cities nationally. and virtualised. Software Defined Networks (SDN) and our Network as a Service (NaaS) platform are both examples of Approach transformations that will enable our partners and customers to better connect with and leverage our network. Every day, our networks connect millions of people. Our customers rely on our networks around the clock and around the Telstra has a long history of investing in regional Australia. world. Having access to a reliable network underpins economic Over the last five years, our total mobile network investment growth and social interaction, and provides opportunities to has been around $8 billion, of which almost $3 billion has been address societal and environmental challenges. As technology invested in regional areas. This investment further strengthens becomes more integrated into daily life, our customers are more Telstra’s regional mobile network, which has been a core focus dependent than ever before on the breadth, speed and reliability for decades. of our networks. Telstra also continues to provide a standard fixed landline With growth underway in the number and variety of smart service under the Universal Service Obligation (USO), which devices, online services and digital applications, our network is provided over a number of technologies in regional Australia traffic continues to increase. Our mobile footprint stretches some of which are older or can be more susceptible to damage out to more than 2.5 million square kilometres, vastly more and faults. Under the Customer Service Guarantee, Telstra than any other mobile network in Australia, and coverage is obliged to repair telephone service faults within a certain extends to 99.5 per cent of the Australian population. time-frame, depending on where a customer lives. While we Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 36 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions strive to meet the standards required by us there are still some Our investment has positioned both Telstra and Australia front customers who have to wait longer than they should for a service and centre on the international stage for 5G deployment. 5G to be restored. This was brought into focus for the government will be a game changer for a range of applications where speed during the Regional Telecommunications Independent Review and quick response times (latency) are important, including Committee’s report. In March 2019, Telstra announced an 4K video, gaming and other new technologies that require expansion of the regional maintenance plan which includes advanced connectivity such as autonomous driving. proactive repair of cable joints, migrating customers from less Internet of Things reliable networks using outdated technology to more reliable Connecting everyday objects and enabling them to send and networks, pro-active replacement of batteries in exchanges receive data is what we mean by the Internet of Things (IoT). and improving stock levels of equipment. By putting real-time information and decision-making power Enhancing network resilience about the world around us in our hands, IoT has the potential We understand that being connected to the world around them to transform the way we live and work. is vital to the way our customers live and work. We know there At Telstra we are already supporting IoT – we connect more are times when our networks experience interruptions and than two million IoT devices over our mobile network today the impact this can have on our consumer, small business and and we offer connected lights, cameras and motion sensors enterprise customers. To limit this source of frustration, we on the Telstra Smart Home platform. Sensors are now being continue to build on our Network Resiliency program focusing deployed in everything from cars to parking meters, aircraft on delivering an ‘Always-on’ continuous connection service engines to electricity meters, from wheelie bins to tractors and better usage experience for our customers. Continuous and farm equipment. improvement of our network remains our priority with an ongoing focus on simplifying the architecture, removing single points Underpinning the emergence of IoT will be the capability of failure, replacing end-of-life infrastructure and increasing of networks to connect millions more devices sending small redundancy, thus enabling faster recovery times as well as volumes of data at very low power levels on a national scale. minimising customer impact should an incident occur. We have been investing in delivering this capability by enabling two new IoT technologies in our mobile network – Category A customer-centric risk-based approach helps us prioritise M1 (Cat M1) and Narrowband. our network improvement programs, through an integrated risk assessment based on multiple factors, including customer These network capabilities are crucial but for IoT to truly takeimpact. Our targeted investment borne out of this approach has off in Australia it will require a vibrant IoT ecosystem developing delivered significant risk reduction leading to improved network solutions designed for local conditions and solving problems resiliency and recovery. During FY19 there were in excess of for local businesses. That’s why we are investing in IoT in sectors 100 initiatives prioritised as a result of our understanding of such as agriculture, water, road safety and city planning. We the risk they presented to our customers’ experience. are also supporting start-ups to bring new, innovative IoT ideas to the transport and logistics industry through the Telstra 5G Innovation Innovation Challenge. In May 2019 5G became a reality for Australia. With the launch of our first 5G device, the HTC 5G Hub, our customers can now experience the super-fast response times, high-speed data and the lower latency the new technology provides. The launch of 5G will bring advancements in mobile gaming, virtual reality experiences, high definition (HD) video conferencing and other apps not yet imagined. Since the launch of the HTC 5G Hub, Telstra has launched another three 5G devices. Our investment in bringing 5G to life for Australia is significant. We were first in Australia and one of the first globally to have an operational 5G network. We have started rolling out 5G in 10 cities around Australia. In FY20 we expect our 5G coverage to increase in area almost five-fold and reach into at least 35 Australian cities. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 37 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Creation of a standalone infrastructure business unit Making Darwin a Smart City On 1 July 2018, we created Telstra InfraCo, a standalone Switching on Darwin is a local government initiative infrastructure business unit within Telstra, to provide greater from the City of Darwin. It aims to improve safety, visibility to the market of the value of this business and create sustainability, innovation and efficiencies through more optionality for the future. Telstra InfraCo controls assets cutting edge technology. with a book value of around $11 billion and is responsible for The $10 million project has been funded through the key network infrastructure assets such as data centres and Commonwealth government’s Smart Cities and Suburbs exchange buildings, most of our fibre network, the copper and Program, the Northern Territory government, and City of hybrid fibre coaxial (HFC) networks, international subsea cables, Darwin investments. The program is designed to use smart exchanges, poles, ducts and pipes. city technologies to improve city operations and enhance Establishing Telstra InfraCo as a separate business unit, community life. with its own segment reporting in our financial accounts, Taking a holistic view over this project, Telstra worked with allows us to drive greater efficiency in the operation of a range of partnering businesses to deliver a custom-made our key infrastructure assets and provide investors with solution designed to: greater visibility of the value of those assets and the returns they generate. • Improve the safety of the city, particularly at night, through 134 new CCTV cameras and 912 smart Telstra InfraCo serves three customer segments, with more street lights than 200 customers in total: Wholesale in Australia, nbn Co, and the broader Telstra organisation. • Increase greening and cooling capabilities in a tropical International investment climate, through microclimate monitoring systems Telstra has been investing in enhancing global connectivity • Provide wider access to free public internet, allowing and our subsea cable network. Our international investment the local community and visitors more digital includes our involvement in a consortium to deploy the brand engagement opportunities within the city CBD new high-speed INDIGO cable, which will connect Singapore, • Implement smarter parking technology, to understand Indonesia and Australia as well as our ‘Always-on’ service, usage and better plan for new constructions. aimed at providing continuous connection on our busiest Asian routes. These represent important developments for Telstra • Utilise data for a better understanding of pedestrian as a key part of our international growth strategy and provide and vehicle movement to help shape the city’s future significant benefits to our customers in today’s high-speed, • Integrate the city data and monitor assets through connected world. a smart city platform. We continue to invest in our subsea cable network infrastructure, the largest in the Asia Pacific region. This will boost capacity and resiliency, increase our investment in our backhaul network “ Importantly for us, Telstra looked to across China, Taiwan, Japan and Korea, and be at forefront of Darwin’s local business community as providing connectivity between US and China. We have also built a strong in-country footprint across the region in markets partners in this project. They recognised with different languages, cultural norms, climatic conditions Darwin’s business credibility, and sourced and complex access regimes. partnerships within our city in order to By 2022, it’s expected that Asian IP traffic will grow by 32 per cent every year, ultimately carrying as much as 5.7 exabytes deliver. Not only are we improving the every day – more than every word ever spoken by human beings. city’s technology capabilities through this project, we’re also stimulating our own economy,” said Joshua Sattler, General Manager, Innovation, Growth and Development at City of Darwin. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 38 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Everyone connected The digital economy generates social, cultural and economic Progress benefits for Australians but we know these benefits are not Australian Digital Inclusion Index equally shared. Over two and a half million Australians are not online, and many are not able to take full advantage of Since 2015 we have partnered with RMIT University, the Centre online services. for Social Impact at Swinburne University, and Roy Morgan to produce the Australian Digital Inclusion Index (the Index). Digital inclusion is based on the premise that everyone should The Index provides important insights on the barriers to digital be able to make full use of digital technologies and the benefits inclusion across three areas access, affordability and digital they bring, whether it be managing health and wellbeing, ability and is designed as an information tool to help policyaccessing education and services, organising finances, or makers, businesses and community organisations take action simply connecting with family, friends and the world beyond. on digital exclusion. We are focused on supporting those in our community most at The Index is a longitudinal study and shows that over time all risk of digital exclusion. This includes people living with disability, digital inclusion in Australia is improving, and that Australians older Australians, remote Indigenous communities, those on low are spending more time, and doing more, online. However it also incomes, regional communities, and people who are experiencing shows that the gaps between digitally included and excluded unemployment or homelessness. Our approach is to integrate Australians are substantial and in some cases widening. Those digital inclusion into our core business and to partner with with low levels of income, education and employment are government and community organisations to achieve genuine significantly less digitally included. and lasting outcomes. The value of the Index lies in the assistance it can provide in Digital inclusion targeting and shaping future work. It can help guide future policy and action by improving the evidence base and sharpening our Approach focus. As technology drives further transformations in life and Digital inclusion means being able to access, afford or have work, digital inclusion will become an increasingly important the digital capability to connect and use online technologies issue for all of us. effectively. For Telstra, this means keeping people connected, For more information, refer to the Australian Digital Inclusion especially when they’re doing it tough, ensuring our products, Index webpage. services and information are accessible and easy to use, and building the digital skills and confidence of our vulnerable and We are committed to providing tailored support, products and diverse customers and communities. We are also investing in services to enable 1.5 million people to connect and thrive online the future of regional Australia through our mobile base station by 2020. We are on track to meet our target through a range of network, co-investment arrangements and partnerships. digital inclusion activities to enhance customer affordability, accessibility and ability. Together with leading Australian universities and research agencies we produce the Australian Digital Inclusion Index an information tool to help policy-makers, businesses and For a detailed breakdown of our community investment community organisations take action on digital exclusion. performance data, please refer to our Sustainability We also meet regularly with key consumer organisations in Report 2019 Data Pack. Australia to help ensure our digital inclusion programs meet our diverse communities’ needs. This includes regular meetings with the Australian Communications Consumer Action Network, quarterly meetings with the Low Income Measures Assessment Committee, and a bi-annual CEO Consumer Roundtable, which provides a regular forum for peak consumer organisations to meet with our CEO and senior leaders. Our digital inclusion programs support our target to provide tailored support, products and services to enable 1.5 million people to connect and thrive online by 2020. We regularly review our approach to identify groups most in need, changing technologies and consumer preferences. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 39 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Customers in vulnerable circumstances Crisis support Telstra provides free access to national crisis lines so that We partner with more than 2,000 local community organisations the cost of calling is not a barrier to seeking help from Lifeline, across Australia to develop and deliver programs to assist our SES, Family Drug Support, Mensline Australia, beyondblue and most vulnerable customers and communities. Suicide Call Back Service. Over 700,000 Telstra-originated calls Our Access for Everyone programs were made to these crisis lines from fixed, mobile and payphones in FY19. help people on a low income or facing We provide unmetered data access for those on the Telstra financial hardship to stay connected. mobile network to the Ask Izzy mobile website, which connects Since its inception in 2002, we have people in need with housing, a meal, money help, family violence support and much more. provided benefits to the value of more than $3 billion. With over 2.4 million searches made on Ask Izzy since its launch in early 2016, In FY19, Access for Everyone provided concessional benefits totalling $60 million, a reduction of 17 per cent compared to around 50% come from Telstra’s networks. FY18 ($72 million), reflecting the ongoing move by pensioners to newer plans that have higher calling inclusions as standard. Over 765,000 pensioners received a discount in FY19 to the value of $45 million. Our T22 product simplification strategy is built around four key pillars that position Telstra for the future by making us simpler, more efficient and easier for customers to deal with. This includes explicit consideration of customers in vulnerable circumstances, focusing on four specific areas of vulnerability economic, disability, non-digital, and safety and security. This work continues as customers gradually take advantage of our new simplified plans and digital services. This year, we have worked with customer advocates, particularly financial counsellors, to implement a single point of entry for inquiries on behalf of their clients, with more timely resolution of issues raised. This has helped eliminate internal transfers and improved first-time work allocations to the correct team thus improving our resolution timings. We have partnered with a leading non-profit provider of technology to homelessness and family violence organisations to introduce Telstra Top-ups – a digital version of our prepaid mobile recharge program available directly through the community agency’s case management system. We continued as a Founding Partner of the Thriving Communities Partnership and this year helped launch a new research report undertaken by Melbourne University’s Social Equity Institute into ways to better support decision-making, particularly for consumers with cognitive disabilities. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 40 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Supporting people living with disability We received four complaints of disability discrimination This year our Disability Enquiry Hotline took more than 16,000 from the Australian Human Rights Commission or state calls and processed more than 3,500 successful applications anti-discrimination bodies in FY19, one of which is still under for products as part of our Disability Equipment Program. investigation. This is down from six complaints in FY18. We continue to see steady volumes in the provision of TTYs In the final year of our existing Accessibility and Inclusion (Tele-Typewriters for customers who are deaf or have speech Plan, we measured progress against three strategic pillars: impairment), supplying 118 in FY19, in comparison to 103 in 1. Improve customer experience – alongside our major FY18. Nearly 70,000 calls were made to our Directory Assistance competitors, Telstra received a formal warning from ACMA Helpline by over 10,000 customers who are not able to use for contravening two clauses of the Telecommunications printed or online telephone directories. Consumer Protections Code relating to meeting the needs of consumers with disability. Remediation is taking place via refreshed staff training and resources. Meanwhile, best practice for digital accessibility was embedded into our Brand guidelines (including colours, logos, typography and external emails) and the Telstra Smart Home app underwent a successful audit by consultancy AccessibilityOz. 2. Create a fully inclusive workforce – over 10 per cent of graduates recruited in Australia for FY19 identified as living with a disability, more than 300 employees participated in accessibility and inclusion training, and we employed more than 500 people from Australian Disability Enterprises across six states. 3. Innovate for the future we continued our work with Transpire in expanding www.appsforall.com.au to promote resources for accessible app development and we supported disability and accessibility organisations and programs through the Telstra Foundation via the Tech4Good Challenge. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 41 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Regional and remote communities Regional engagement Regional investment Telstra continues to respond to regional community needs through new service offerings and products. The establishment Telstra’s longstanding commitment to regional Australians is of the Regional Australia call centre in Adelaide (along with overunwavering. We are planning and investing in a digital future flow capacity in Townsville) to handle sales and service queries that champions the needs of regional and remote communities. for customers more than 100 kilometres from a Telstra store Over the last five years up to June 2019, our total mobile network has been important to improving regional customer experience. investment was around $8 billion of which almost $3 billion was We are also seeing the roll out of next generation extension invested in regional areas. devices and satellite small cells providing new technology Under the Communications (Consumer Protection and solutions that support improvements in mobile coverage Service Standards) Act 1999 a Regional Telecommunications for regional communities. Independent Review Committee (RTIRC) is established every three years. The government responded to the Review in March Connecting a high-speed future for South Australian 2019, committing $220 million in new funding to a large-scale, students multi-year Stronger Regional Digital Connectivity Package (the Package) to improve broadband and mobile services in areas We announced in FY19 that as part of a landmark of high economic, social and public safety significance. The partnership between Telstra and the South Australian Package includes two further Mobile Black Spot Program rounds government, we will connect almost every government ($160 million) and a new broader Regional Connectivity Program school in the state to a high-speed fibre optic network. ($60 million) to improve participation in the digital economy for The massive undertaking will see over 500 government regional communities and businesses. schools across the state of South Australia connected to a high-speed fibre optic network capable of speeds We have established Regional Advisory Councils in New of 1Gbps and beyond, improving some schools’ internet South Wales, Western Australia and Queensland, composed access speeds by up to a thousand times. of key regional leaders helping us to identify and address local challenges and opportunities. We have also established partnerships with the National Farmers Federation (NFF) and five state farming organisations. Through our relationship with NFF a series of roundtable consultations were undertaken that led to the Talking 2030 roadmap being released in October 2018. The roadmap outlines five pillars that will help the Australian agriculture sector with its aim to become a $100 billion industry by 2030. This roadmap has become a blueprint for the future of agriculture and forms a foundation for which various organisations and governments can engage to achieve the opportunities available to the sector. For more information see the Talking 2030 webpage. Our work in partnership with successive Commonwealth governments to build mobile base stations and small cells under the Mobile Black Spot Program delivered its milestone 550th site in FY19, and we are well on our way towards the “ Fast, reliable internet connectivity is more than 780 sites and $280 million total investment we critical in the modern world, and our have committed to the Program since its inception in 2015. students will now benefit from this landmark network expansion that will help deliver a world class education system,” said South Australia’s Premier Steven Marshall. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 42 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Telstra Safe Connections This includes 410 sessions in ten languages that were run for culturally and linguistically diverse seniors in NSW. Our Tech Telstra Safe Connections assists women impacted by domestic Savvy Seniors Regional Roadshow visited Taree, Halliday’s violence by providing access to safe and secure communications Point, Wingham, Armidale, Uralla, Nimbin, Grafton, Lismore – a smart phone, $30 pre-paid starter kit and information and Tweed Heads in NSW. to help them stay safely connected. Delivered in partnership with Women’s Services Network (WESNET), Telstra Safe Continuing our partnership with the NSW government and Connections has distributed 16,714 phones to women since CommBank, we translated Tech Savvy Seniors resources on its inception in 2016. “how to bank online” into eight languages. We also translated the “how to be safe online” module into seven languages and Since 2018 we have piloted a dedicated customer service entry created a suite of resources in Korean and Spanish. point with trained agents and a ‘high care’ approach to our Safe Connections customers. We are exploring options to open this In addition, we launched our Social Seniors program in service to all customers impacted by domestic violence in FY20. partnership with the Victorian government. Developed with Swinburne University, it is targeted to seniors with some digital Older Australians skills and confidence and an interest in extending them further. In FY19, over 200 older Australians received training through This year we continued to support Australian seniors through our Social Seniors program. our digital literacy programs, giving older people, particularly those in regional areas, the opportunity to develop the skills and confidence to embrace digital technology. We partner with state governments to deliver our Tech Savvy Seniors program and provided face-to-face digital literacy training for nearly 17,000 older Australians. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 43 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Indigenous communities Deadly Digital Communities Deadly Digital Communities provides community-based digital In December 2018, we launched our fourth Reconciliation literacy and technology training in remote and regional Aboriginal Action Plan (RAP) 20182021 which received the highest rating, and Torres Strait Islander communities in Queensland. In FY19, ‘Elevate’, from Reconciliation Australia. As Australia’s largest the program reached nine communities with more than 330 telecommunications company, we have a responsibility and an people gaining new digital skills. This program is an initiative of important role to play as a facilitator for economic development the State Library of Queensland and Telstra in partnership with and self-determination for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Indigenous Knowledge Centres and local councils. peoples, no matter where they are across the nation. Extending mobile coverage Reconciliation Action Plan In FY19 we extended fixed broadband and mobile coverage Our vision for reconciliation is an inclusive to the remote Indigenous communities of Yarralin, Kintore Australia where Aboriginal and Torres and Atitjere in the Northern Territory (NT) as part of our infrastructure co-investment agreement with the Northern Strait Islander peoples are connected Territory government. Mt Liebig also received fixed broadband and empowered to thrive. thanks to the co-investment agreement. To realise this vision our fourth RAP targets three areas where we can leverage our expertise to achieve the greatest Telstra NATSIAA outcomes. This means lifting our commitment to bridging the The Telstra National Aboriginal & Torres Strait Islander digital divide, providing employment and opportunities to lift Art Awards (NATSIAA) exhibition captures the attention economic participation, and creating a culturally responsive of the nation and increasingly the globe. Telstra has been and engaged organisation. a proud supporter of NATSIAA since 1991 and each year NATSIAA sees an increasing variety of art forms and This year we announced a new $28 million co-investment media, collectively demonstrating the richness and agreement with the Northern Territory government to improve diversity of current contemporary Indigenous artistic telecommunications services in remote locations targeting practice and the pre-eminence of Aboriginal and Torres transport corridors, tourist destinations and communities. This Strait Islander voices. investment is in addition to our partnership with the Northern Territory government to provide mobile phone and/or broadband services in 18 remote communities across the Territory. While access to technology and communications is key to addressing digital exclusion, a person’s digital ability also plays a role. In FY19 inDigiMOB, our community digital capability program continued to accelerate Indigenous participation in digital society. Delivered in partnership with First Nations Media, inDigiMOB delivers a culturally-appropriate framework and model for transfer of digital skills and cyber-safety awareness, and helps to develop locally-relevant training resources, tools and content with and for the community. This year the program expanded operations from 13 to 20 locations with more than 1,000 new participants benefiting from the program. In FY18 we also launched the Loans & Phones project in the Anangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara (APY) Lands in South Australia. Delivered by MoneyMob Talkabout this program provides education and training to increase awareness and comprehension of telecommunications products and services to reduce financial hardship. This program follows the extension of mobile coverage in FY18 to six locations across the APY Lands as part of our involvement in the Commonwealth government’s Mobile Black Spot Program. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 44 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Disaster relief and recovery We know how important our network connectivity is for the community, especially in times of crisis. We work extensively to prepare for severe weather seasons, our priorities being to protect and maintain our infrastructure and to keep our customers connected. In times of declared disaster, we provide telecommunications services such as temporary internet and loan handsets to evacuation centres and set up phone recharging stations. With parts of Australia impacted by significant drought, including 50 per cent of Queensland and New South Wales, we are making our natural disaster support arrangements available to all Our Community Recovery Vehicles are deployed to arrange Telstra customers affected by drought customer disaster relief packages, including diverting home and across the country. business phones to mobiles and, in some cases, the distribution of free devices with prepaid credit. Depending on our access These support arrangements include working with customers to affected areas, we also set up temporary Telstra shops to in financial hardship to offer longer-term payment options or support customers. We also provide emergency response leave extensions, reviewing and removing any administrative fees for our people who volunteer with emergency services. (e.g. for late payment), and reviewing a customer’s mobile, fixed line and broadband plans to make sure they are affordable. All residents in a disaster relief area are provided with free access to our public pay phones and free Wi-Fi data at Telstra Air hotspots, regardless of whether they are a Telstra customer or not. We also offer various services for impacted individuals, such as: free call diversion, reconnecting services at a new address free of charge and providing additional mobile data. During FY19 we provided support to communities facing disaster as a result of the drought in Queensland and New South Wales, fires in Tasmania and floods in Townsville. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 45 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech for good In an increasingly dynamic and inter-connected world, Telstra Labs also backs muru-D, a startup accelerator that technology has an enormous capacity to create social empowers ambitious entrepreneurs to solve challenging and environmental change. Digital technology is disrupting global problems using technology. Through financial support, traditional operating models and helping society to respond a dedicated working space, education and access to mentors to major issues in a more agile and scalable way – from and a global community, founders can scale their business and managing the threat of climate change to making healthcare make a positive impact on the world. and education more universally accessible. But while the pace of digital change brings great opportunity, Telstra Labs and Thales Partnership it also brings challenges in terms of online privacy and safety, Telstra Labs is collaborating with Thales, a leader in Aviation as well as the impacts of digital exclusion. systems, to develop the concept of operations for a lowWe want to build a connected future so everyone can thrive – altitude airspace management system. The prototype air enhancing access, overcoming barriers and enabling the skills traffic control platform that we are developing with Thales, and support to navigate the online world confidently and safely. called Low-Altitude Airspace Management (or LAAM), can integrate both manned and unmanned aerial vehicles, and Social and environmental innovation will include features like drone registration, activation, Approach identification and automated drone flight approvals. This will also allow the use of dynamic airspace management in We believe in the power of technology to deliver innovative high-traffic areas, where situations might require near-realsolutions to social and environmental challenges. One of the time notification to a drone pilot to change an approved ways we explore these opportunities is through an innovation mission or land safely, due to airspace being required by ecosystem at Telstra that is helping us to address the issues first responders. that matter – from reducing carbon emissions, to improving healthcare outcomes, to developing more sustainable farming techniques. Through the Telstra Foundation, we support non-profits that enable young people to thrive in their connected world. This year we invested in digital learning experiences in schools, public libraries and remote Indigenous communities, as well as inclusive technologies to support people living with disability. Progress Nurturing innovation Telstra is committed to using technology We demonstrated our prototype at the Avalon Airshow to address emerging challenges facing our 2019, and we are now working towards a regional trial. We customers, government and communities. have also showcased the concepts to relevant authorities – Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA), Department of Telstra Labs was established to create a dedicated environment Infrastructure, Regional Development and Cities (DIRDC) where we learn by doing, and can test, trial, experiment and and Airservices Australia – to inform, learn and improve air explore. It’s a space for collaboration between our teams, traffic management. our partners, our customers, and Australia’s next generation Our work with Thales on LAAM, underpinned by continuous of innovative thinkers. investment in and improvement of our networks around the Telstra Labs is home to Australia’s first publicly-accessible country, indicates that it should be possible for manned Internet of Things (IoT) Lab, designed to build a community flights and UAVs to operate together effectively and safely around IoT product design. Activities include the Telstra in our skies. Innovation Challenge, an IoT hackathon that started in 2017. In 2019 the Telstra Innovation Challenge asked participants to use technology to find innovative solutions to issues in the transport and logistics sector. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 46 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Creating smarter homes We partnered with Code Club Australia and Indigenous Digital eXcellence (IDX) to strengthen digital making and coding skills, Voice-control technology has enabled Australians to control with Young Change Agents to build entrepreneurial design appliances, lights, heating and cooling without needing to move thinking skills and Alannah & Madeline Foundation and around their house or wait for help. PROJECT ROCKIT to support smart and safe digital citizenship. We now offer 17 smart devices to help customers monitor their homes, and control lighting and appliances. Telstra Smart Home Digital workshops for remote communities devices also help customers to optimise their energy efficiency by enabling them to set a timer for their lights and manage their The partnership between the National Centre of Indigenous thermostat remotely through a central app. These devices have Excellence (NCIE) and Telstra Foundation has delivered great potential to be life changing for people in aged, disability Indigenous Digital Excellence workshops in more than 22 and community care and we are continuing to explore more communities across Australia. The workshops are part of smart home applications for these sectors. the IDX Flint program. For more information on Telstra Smart Home technology, please refer to our Smart Homes webpage. Telstra Foundation The Telstra Foundation proudly supports non-profits that help young people understand, create and safely engage with technology, and also those that use technology to positively change the lives of young people. This year we partnered with 22 charity and social enterprise partners, committing $6 million through the Telstra Foundation to support community programs and partnerships. We also facilitated over $1.4 million in charitable donations from Telstra employees and Telstra shareholders. This brings our total In June 2019, students from Bwgcolman Community School investment since FY18 to $12 million and means we are on on Palm Island, QLD took part in IDX Flint, learning how to track to meet our target to invest $18 million over three years use Virtual Reality (VR), code a robot, create digital stories in Telstra Foundation-funded initiatives. and use drones to care for country. The community will also receive up to $10,000 worth of technology of their choice Digital Futures Program to use in their community-led workshops to drive future Telstra Kids participation in digital technology. Principal of Bwgcolman Telstra is passionate about nurturing the next generation of Community School Beresford Domic said IDX Flint has been digital citizens and makers. Through the Telstra Foundation, an exceptional way to connect the students and teachers we invest in grassroots coding, digital making, cyber safety, to innovative digital technology. IDX Manager Grant robotics and entrepreneurial learning initiatives to enable young Cameron said “the community’s vision for Palm Island people to create with – not just consume – digital technology. is really exciting and sparking the students’ interest in We work with local communities, libraries and schools across technology now, can lead to employment opportunities Australia to help young people develop the skills needed for in the future.” the future of work. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 47 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Tech4Good “ These experiences ….. got us thinking, Telstra Foundation’s Tech4Good Challenge is an incubator program that supports non-profits using digital technology what can we do to help embed Auslan to change the lives of young people at risk of social exclusion. into everyday life to improve It focuses on partners and projects that improve the health communication and social interactions and wellbeing of young people – particularly diverse and vulnerable young people such as those living with disability, between the deaf community and those at risk of mental illness, living in regional or remote communities, with hearing?” says Olivia. and with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander heritage. The app – with a working title of ‘Auslan Anywhere’ – will provide In FY19, seventeen charities were supported to scope, research key signs, sentences, poetry, stories and even songs in Auslan and test new digital ideas, as part of the Tech4Good Challenge as well as best practice guidelines for how to address and and five projects were selected to each receive $450,000 over communicate with people who are deaf or hard or hearing. two years to build and pilot their digital innovation. “This additional funding and support from the Telstra Foundation Expression Australia has been exploring opportunities through will allow the deaf community the opportunity to share the Tech4Good Challenge to develop an app that will help remove our language, Auslan, and culture through technology. The the stigma and improve mainstream community attitudes financial and expert support from Telstra and Academy Xi will towards deaf people. be invaluable, just as it has been throughout the Tech4Good Expression Australia’s Youth Engagement Officer, Olivia Challenge process. As a non-profit, it’s unlikely that Expression Beasley was born deaf and uses Auslan (Australian Sign Australia would be able to self-fund a project of this magnitude Language) to communicate at home. Like many deaf people, and we look forward to the impact this will have,” says Olivia employs multiple strategies like writing things down and Expression Australia Manager Maxine Buxton. using interpreters to help her overcome communication barriers, but it is rare she meets a member of the general public who can hear that can communicate with her through sign language. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 48 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Keeping safe in a digital world Australian libraries are eSmart libraries Approach The Telstra Foundation and the Alannah & Madeline Foundation launched eSmart Libraries in 2012 – one of the most ambitious Digital technology provides access to a world of information cyber safety initiatives undertaken in Australia to equip and communication, but it can also leave us exposed to new libraries, staff and library users with the skills they need risks such as cyberbullying, privacy and data security breaches. for smart, safe and responsible use of digital technology. Through our programs, we work to build the skills and confidence Backed by an $8 million Telstra Foundation grant, 80 per needed to help understand these risks and promote safe and cent of public libraries are now participating in the free program. positive digital experiences. Public libraries are amongst the most heavily used community Online safety is more than protecting people from online centres in Australia, connecting with many disadvantaged danger and personal risk. It’s also about creating a sense members of society. More than half of the population are public of belonging and standards of behaviour that enable us all library members, who make over 110 million visits a year to to have a positive experience online. At Telstra we want to 1,500 public libraries across Australia. Developed from a holistic empower people to participate safely in the online world and and evidence-based approach, eSmart Libraries focuses on provide the infrastructure and support that make this possible. ways libraries and communities can develop smart, safe and responsible digital behaviours. Progress Helping customers stay safe online Cyber safety in our communities Telstra offers its customers a range of ways to stay safe online. At Telstra, we are committed to championing cyber safety in Our Telstra Broadband Protect and Telstra Mobile Protect our communities. In addition to our digital inclusion programs, solutions help customers to better protect their families from we’ve also funded digital citizenship programs through the cyber risks, tailoring connectivity to the needs and maturity Telstra Foundation, such as PROJECT ROCKIT and eSmart of family members and helping bring balance to screen time. Libraries, which promote positive online behaviours for people of all ages and backgrounds, including taking action Telstra Broadband Protect helps more than two million on cyberbullying and online safety. customers and their family members to stay safe online via any device connected to their home fixed broadband service. We also provide our customers with practical tips and advice The product blocks around one billion queries to malicious on staying safe in the digital world. For example, our SmartPhone sites and content that may infect devices or steal customers’ Safety Hub provides support for parents who are bringing a information every month. This year more than 80 per cent of our smartphone into their child’s life. For more information, see home Internet users are protected by Telstra Broadband Protect, our SmartPhone Safety Hub webpage. a 50 per cent increase from FY17. We collaborate on cyber safety through our active participation Thousands of customers have also added parental controls to in key industry programs. Telstra has a representative on the their Telstra Broadband Protect service, so that they can block Family Online Safety Institute (FOSI) Board, the Office of the inappropriate content or restrict internet access on devices in eSafety Commissioner’s Online Safety Consultative Working the home. Parental Controls blocked around 738 million requests Group and is a co-founder of the Technology for Wellbeing in June 2019 for websites, applications, and other content based Round Table a thought leadership forum of experts and on customer configured policies. practitioners that meets quarterly to discuss issues relating to young people and technology, including cyber-safety, Telstra Mobile Protect helps protect families when they’re using mental health and digital skills. We also support the Office their mobile devices on the Telstra mobile network, and lets of the eSafety Commissioner’s Women Influencing Technology parents restrict mobiles and tablets usage. The service offers Spaces program which uses women’s voices to raise awareness customers family-friendly web-blocking features and allows of the impacts of cyber abuse. parents to protect their children from un-wanted calls and SMS messages. The service is available to post-paid Telstra For more information about our work to combat tech-facilitated customers at no extra cost. abuse, please refer to the Safe Connections section of this report. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 49 Environmental solutions Climate change and energy Our efforts to innovate and leverage technology are helping The strategy has five pillars, supported by goals, our business, our customers and our communities to respond commitments and targets to 2020: to climate change. Technology is an essential enabler of low• Managing carbon emissions continue to invest in carbon economic growth, and our investment in technological energy efficiency and increase our support of innovation is helping us to prepare for a more energy-focused, Australia’s renewable energy sector climate-conscious future. • Climate change resilience embed climate change While advances in digital technologies have the potential to resilience actions into infrastructure planning, mitigate our contribution to climate change, we must also investment and operation ensure our infrastructure is resilient to impacts associated with climate change. As Australia’s leading telecommunications • Low-carbon economic growth use our technology and technology provider, we facilitate many millions of calls to help address environmental challenges and help our and data connections across our network each day. Given customers reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions the breadth and complexity of our underlying infrastructure, • Resource efficiency – reduce waste to landfill by embedding we expect our physical exposure to climate related risk will sustainable design practices, increasing reuse and recycling increase in line with the frequency and intensity of extreme and making our packaging more sustainable weather events. • Environmental management – extend best practice Our Environment Strategy environmental management across our global company. Our Environment Strategy, is focused on embracing innovation For more information on how we are bringing this strategy and technology to help address environmental challenges. to life, and our specific performance targets, please visit our environment website. For more information on low-carbon The strategy goes beyond simply managing our own economic growth please refer to the social and environmental environmental footprint and encourages innovation in innovation chapter of this report. digital products and services that create environmental solutions to monitor, protect and improve the environment. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 50 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Energy and emissions Approach Greenhouse gas emissions, petabyte usage and emissions intensity1 Our Environment Strategy commits us to mitigating our climate change impacts and helping our customers and communities to do the same. Our efforts to improve energy and emissions 2m 13 performance covers our operations and broader value chain. Energy efficiency and climate resilience are also factored into our Networks for the Future program. We are considering future 1.5m climate forecasts, as well as energy efficiency requirements, when making decisions on asset location, design and network 8 equipment. While we anticipate a modest increase in our GHG emissions as we maintain our existing network during the 1m Networks for the Future roll out, we aim to continue reducing our emissions intensity over the longer term. 256 4 This year we continued to support the Australian renewable 0.5m 187 energy market with two projects where we have Power 142 Purchase Agreements (PPAs) commencing generation. When 112 fully operational, their production will be around one quarter tCO2e PB of Telstra’s annual energy consumption. This allows Telstra to FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 reduce and stabilise its energy costs, whilst meeting federal Greenhouse gas Petabyte Emissions intensity Government targets for large scale renewable energy. We emissions1 (tCO2e) (PB) Usage (tCO2e/PB) continue to look to invest in renewables through developing additional PPAs. Progress FY19 greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3) by category (tCO2e) Managing our energy and emissions We have committed to reducing our GHG emissions intensity1 1.2m (tCO2e per petabyte) by 50 per cent by 2020, from a baseline 1,152,601 year of FY17. From our base year, we reduced our emissions intensity by 40 per cent, meaning we are on track to achieve SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 SCOPE 1 165,955 1,190,787 our 2020 target. 50,732 800k Customer data use continues to grow, however, the rate of growth is slowing. This is primarily due to no new major advancements in technology-driven data consumption (e.g. on-demand streaming). 400k Overall our emissions have decreased by 2.6 per cent from last year. Drivers of our emissions intensity performance 126,140 include the increased transition of operational control of 53,163 38,933 16,929 14,009 infrastructure to nbn co throughout the year, a reduction 246 185 5,269 in our electricity consumption from energy savings tCO2e derived from project initiatives (energy efficiency and decommissioning), changes to state-based emission Network sites (incl. Office, residential Data centres Vehicles Flights Waste mobile, exchanges retail and depots) factors for electricity published by the Australian Government Electricity Fuel Waste as well as a reduction in transport fuel consumption. 1 GHG emissions are calculated using the latest emission factors at the time of reporting. Our emissions intensity target includes scope 1,2 and the following scope 3 emissions; waste, air travel, electricity transmission losses and fuel extraction and refining. 2 Emissions intensity information has previously been reported on a terabyte (TB) basis. From FY18 it is presented on a per petabyte (PB) basis to reflect our new 2020 target. 3 We have re-stated our FY18 total GHG emissions due to the identification of additional contractor fuel data from a review of our operational boundary. This increased our scope 1 and 3 GHG emissions by 5,352 tCO2e (9.2% change in scope 1, 0.1% change in scope 3 and 0.4% change in total GHG emissions from previously reported). Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 51 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Energy efficiency FY19 energy reduction initiatives (MWh) Electricity consumption accounts for around 95 per cent of Initiative Description Annual our total GHG emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3). We strive to reduce savings energy consumption across every aspect of our business HVAC We conduct physical inspections of 7,563 through a careful program of planning, equipment monitoring optimisation our network sites to identify faults and energy productivity optimisation. affecting power consumption and review equipment performance to identify Our network sites, including exchanges and data centres, are optimisation opportunities. our largest consumers of electricity. This year, we continued Building Our capital works program includes the 5,587 to enhance the efficiency of these sites, installing new lighting services installation of fresh air cooling systems, and air-conditioning controls, retiring inefficient cooling energy high efficiency chillers, electronically efficiency commutated fans and lighting systems, improving our approach to fault detection and upgrades upgrades. repair, and optimising facility design. Upgrading Rectifiers convert electricity 399 Since 2011 we have invested $61.2 million in improving rectifiers from AC mains power to DC power, the energy efficiency of our facilities. This year we invested which is required to run our telecommunications equipment. We $4.7 million in energy reduction projects that delivered continue to upgrade older inefficient a collective saving of 13,747 tCO2e and more than 13,500 units to more modern, high efficiency MWh of electricity per annum. rectifiers. These are now achieving efficiency levels of 96 – 98 per cent. We continue to deploy and use smart electricity meters to Total 13,549 improve our measurement capabilities and help us identify consumption patterns. We are also using Internet of Things (IoT) power monitoring systems to better understand where We also depower and decommission redundant network energy is used in our facilities, rapidly identify issues that infrastructure to save energy and re-use, or recycle components adversely impact energy efficiency or are not compliant where practicable. This year we completed 1,282 projects which with Telstra’s operational standards, and to validate energy delivered a saving of 18,059 MWh per annum. reduction initiatives. For more information on how we recycle our infrastructure This year, as part of our network facility energy reduction components, see the environment and resource efficiency program, we have been implementing a new LED based section of this report. lighting system at our network sites which consumes less Managing our transport emissions energy and provides lighting levels that are double the existing Our GHG emissions from our operational fleet reduced by system, leading to brighter and safer working environments thirteen per cent this year primarily as a result of reduced for our technicians. kilometres travelled by our fleet. We also continue to transition We have also focused on optimising our top 10 network energy to more fuel-efficient vehicles, progressively removing large usage sites by conducting site energy audits. A range of six cylinder wagons from our fleet and replacing them with activities to enhance heating, ventilation and cooling (HVAC) four cylinder models. efficiency including improved economy cycle, chilled water and fan control strategies will be implemented throughout FY20. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 52 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Renewable energy Telstra achieves an A rating on the CDP This year, two of the projects where we have entered into power Climate A List purchasing agreements (PPAs) have commenced generation. The CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) is a global The Emerald Solar Park in Queensland commenced generation disclosure framework for investors, companies, cities, in September 2018 and reached full commercial operations in states and regions to manage and assess their environmental February 2019 with a generation capacity of 70MW. impacts. CDP’s network of investors and purchasers represent Telstra is one of six offtake partners in the Murra Warra Wind almost $US100 trillion in assets. Farm near Horsham in western Victoria. The farm commenced This year Telstra has been recognised as one of three Australian initial generation in March 2019 and once complete will have companies to receive an A rating on the CDP’s 2018 Climate a generation capacity of 226MW. We continue to look for ways A List. The CDP 2018 Climate A list comprises 139 companies to use our expertise in this area to help more of Australia’s from around the world that have been identified as leading in businesses and organisations meet their energy their efforts and actions to address climate change. and sustainability challenges. We continue to advocate for, develop and share our experience Our commitment to transparency in PPAs for renewables, leading discussions as Gold Sponsor of the 2019 Australasian Emissions Reduction Summit in We calculate our GHG emissions in accordance with the Melbourne this year. Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Calculating customer benefits of Institute as well as the Australian National Greenhouse cloud computing and Energy Reporting (Measurement) Determination 2008 (as amended). Our GHG emissions data includes relevant The cloud is transforming ICT. Simple to procure and manage, Australian subsidiaries, joint ventures and partnerships as it’s helping businesses realise the cost and efficiency gains set out in the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting that come from moving their data and workloads fully off their Act 2007. own premises. The cloud also offers businesses the ability to innovate and move fast for competitive advantage, right source For a detailed breakdown of our environmental applications and manage security. However, when planning performance data, please refer to our Sustainability a move to the cloud, businesses often struggle to quantify Report 2019 Data Pack. the benefits. Since 2003 we have also disclosed our GHG emissions and To help customers to understand and reduce their greenhouse climate change risks annually through our questionnaire gas emissions through the use of cloud technology, Telstra response to the CDP. Our submissions are available online. created a Cloud Calculator Tool which helps businesses To ensure stakeholders’ confidence in our environmental calculate the potential cost, energy and carbon savings they management and performance, we engaged Ernst & Young can achieve (EY) to provide limited assurance over a selection of our by moving on-premises IT to the cloud. This tool supports FY19 environmental performance data. For an overview of existing research called Connecting With The Cloud – A Lowthe metrics included in the assurance please refer to EY’s Carbon Future Is Ahead which focuses on the potential of assurance statement. cloud to drive operational and cost efficiencies, while cutting carbon emissions. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 53 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Climate change Approach higher temperatures leading to higher energy costs, flood damage and potential for more frequent and prolonged With more than 25,000 physical assets around the world, network outages due to extreme events. we understand our exposure to climate change impacts will increase and have identified business resilience as one of our In response, in FY17 we developed an Adaptation Framework material risks. We are working to anticipate and reduce the to improve how we manage our climate and extreme weather impact of future climate-related disruptions as part of our risks. The framework outlines how we can use existing current program of work to upgrade and expand our networks. processes and systems most effectively and efficiently to manage climate-related risks, including how we integrate Beyond managing our own operations, we are also aware these considerations into future decision-making. In FY18, of the critical role that ICT can play in helping our customers we completed a scoping assessment to identify our priority and communities move towards a low-carbon future. Our areas for embedding resilience planning in our business Climate Change Position Statement acknowledges climate operations and future decision-making processes. This year, change as both a business risk and opportunity and therefore, we have looked beyond our physical risks to identify broader our response is focused on addressing both the risks and transitional risks as we continue to build on our business opportunities it presents. resilience in the transition towards a low-carbon economy. Our response to climate change is focused on: Industry associations and the valuable role they play • Minimising our emissions – identifying opportunities Over the last 12 months there has been increasing stakeholder to improve the energy efficiency of our networks and and community interest in the role of industry associations, the use of renewable energy sources particularly their contributions to public policy development and the setting of industry regulations and standards. • Building resilience – assessing climate risk and developing management approaches for our own operations, and to Telstra maintains memberships with a number of industry support customers in extreme weather events and broader business associations that we believe provide value to our business, industry and the wider economy. We • Enabling low-carbon economic growth – making energy have developed a set of principles to guide and inform how efficient technology more accessible across our networks. we engage with industry associations, which can be found on our website. Progress We recognise there is community interest in the role of industry Climate change governance associations in relation to policy advocacy on climate change. Maintaining clear oversight of our climate-related risks and opportunities is one of our sustainability governance priorities. In line with our positioning and principles, we have The Chief Sustainability Office is responsible for implementing commenced an alignment review of our key industry Telstra’s Environment Strategy; and provides bi-annual memberships in relation to climate change. The basis updates to the Telstra Board on progress against targets for this review – which we will complete in 2019 – will and objectives. Our Health, Safety Wellbeing, Environment be our Climate Change Position Statement. and Protective Security (HSWE&PS) Team is responsible for Where our review identifies material differences between setting the management framework, providing analysis and Telstra’s position on climate change policy and the advocacy insights and supporting operational teams to effectively positions of our industry associations, we will engage directly and responsibly manage environmental risks, including GHG with them. emissions performance and climate-related risks. We provide updates to the Audit and Risk Committee on a biannual basis. We will provide an update on the outcomes of this process in future disclosures. Building resilience We continue to further enhance our understanding and management of the risks and opportunities associated with climate change. In FY16, we completed a physical climate change risk assessment to understand the influence of climate change on our physical operations across different time horizons. This identified a number of priority risks including Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 54 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Environment and resource efficiency E-waste is one of the fastest growing types of waste in the Progress world. For example, there are now around 25 million unused E-waste mobile phones sitting on shelves or in drawers across Australia. As Australia’s leading telecommunications and technology Working together – MobileMuster company, we have a responsibility to improve our resource As a founding member of MobileMuster – Australia’s only efficiency and help our customers and suppliers minimise voluntary, government-accredited mobile phone recycling their environmental impacts. scheme we have supported responsible electronics recycling programs for 20 years. We continue to implement opportunities to reduce resources and support the reuse or recycling of electronic products. In FY19 we collected 15.5 tonnes of mobile phones and Resource efficiency creates opportunity, including innovative accessories, which puts us at 39.2 tonnes against our threeproducts with enhanced sustainability credentials, new year target to reuse or recycle 60 tonnes of mobile phones and revenue streams from reused materials, and cost savings accessories by the end of FY20. This year there was a decline from reduced packaging materials. in the volume of mobiles collected, primarily a result of both Telstra and our customers increasing the life of old devices, We advocate for better product stewardship across our largely through repurposing old devices (e.g. selling them for industry and offer programs, such as Telstra eCycle device re-use). Refer to the section below on extending the life of take back, to help our customers improve their environmental smartphones to understand how we are increasing re-use performance. We also work to ensure we comply with our of devices. environmental obligations, monitoring and managing the increasing complexity of our environmental risks. Mobile phone reused and recycled (tonnes) Product stewardship Approach We rely on large volumes of electronic equipment to operate our network. The rapid evolution of technology requires us 23.7 to continuously upgrade our network and has also led to 19.9 15.5 increased customer demand for the latest devices, further increasing the amount of equipment becoming e-waste. Responsible e-waste management has become one of our most significant product stewardship issues. FY17 FY18 FY19 We are committed to improving the circular economy of In total, we collected 2,986 tonnes of e-waste, with a recycling electronic equipment. We contribute to sector-wide initiatives rate of 99.97 per cent. The total volume of e-waste collected and seek to improve our own practices through effective has decreased by 23 per cent compared to FY18 due to a product design and reuse and repurposing. Our employees reduction in battery replacements. share this journey with us. They contribute directly to our recycling campaigns and are advocates for effective Total e-waste collected (tonnes) stewardship in our workplaces, businesses and communities. We aim to protect the environment by cultivating a strong risk management culture and maintaining effective systems and processes. We monitor and assess our compliance to ensure we meet the requirements of industry regulation and expectations of our stakeholders. 4,353 3,871 2,986 FY17 FY18 FY19 For a detailed breakdown of our resource consumption, As Australia makes the switch from the copper cable network to please refer to our Sustainability Report 2019 Data Pack. the nbn network, we are seeking ways to responsibly and costeffectively recycle our recovered cable e-waste. This year we recovered 275 tonnes of copper mains cable for local recycling. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 55 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Working with our value chain • Our Telstra Device Care app runs diagnostic checks to Our Electronics Reuse and Recycling Strategy, Unlocking help identify any issues with a device and resolves them Hidden Value, aims to systematically manage and reduce our automatically if possible. As a result, over the last two e-waste impact across our value chain. Our efforts include years we have reduced the number of devices returned offering employees and customers convenient collection through our warranty swap program by more than 60,000. options for mobile handsets and accessories. • Internally, our Regener8 program collects and repurposes We continue to work with our panel of pre-qualified e-waste unused phones from across the business for internal recycling vendors that meet Australian Standards for the purposes. Since launching in FY17, we have repurposed responsible management, storage, handling, and disposal more than 3,800 devices. of e-waste. Pre-qualification streamlines our procurement process and bolsters our ability to responsibly and securely Re-using customer equipment reuse and recycle this resource. When we upgrade our business and enterprise customers’ Telstra eCycle is our collection and recycling program for equipment we collect redundant equipment for reuse, eligible, unwanted electronic goods. In our retail stores, this repurposing, recycling or sale. This year we worked with service leverages the MobileMuster collection network to 391 Enterprise customers to collect and re-use 2,013 provide customers with the option to responsibly and safely devices. We completed a project with Australia Post and recycle their mobile phones and accessories. social enterprise, PonyUp for Good, to collect more than Extending the life of smartphones 1,000 desktop phones (1.1 tonnes) from Australia Post and found channels for reuse for 92 per cent of the equipment We are working across the business to increase the lifetime (by weight). PonyUp donates 50 per cent of the profits from of phones, reducing our environmental impact by avoiding the remarketing of redundant equipment to Australia’s the need to produce new phones. Some examples of our largest fresh food rescue charity, SecondBite. This project programs include: contributed 3,716 meals for vulnerable Australians. • At the end of life, we collect used or obsolete devices, wipe them and assess their likelihood of being resold through an approved third party provider. This year more than 70,000 customer devices were repurposed through this method. • We work closely with Original Equipment Manufactures (OEMs) and have created a device refurbishment program where our OEMS use the devices returned by our customers to make and supply OEM guaranteed warranty replacement stock. This stock can then be utilised by us to manage customer replacement devices in instances of warranty or fault. This year we have contributed 44,143 devices to OEMs for refurbishment. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 56 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Operational waste Packaging materials efficiency initiatives We continue to look for opportunities to improve our This year, our operational waste volumes decreased by 19 per packaging materials efficiency. This year we: cent. Our operational recycling rate increased by 24 per cent. However, compared to our baseline year of 2017, our recycling • Removed the welcome letters from customer orders, rate has decreased which means we have some work to do to which reduced paper use by 2.4 million pages reach our target of 42 per cent by 2020. The drop in recycling • Moved to 100 per cent recycled cardboard packaging for rate is primarily a result of changes to our network upgrade all our Telstra branded pre-paid devices and 90 per cent activities, resulting in reduced cardboard packaging from new recycled cardboard for all our SIM kit packaging and sleeves, equipment entering the waste stream and being recycled. saving virgin fibre and conserving energy Waste audits conducted during FY19 also identified an increase in contamination of recycling (resulting in it not being able • For our Telstra TV3, we reduced the physical size of the to be recycled and going to landfill) as well as an increase in device, which reduced the volume of plastic as well as the potentially recyclable material being placed in general waste volume of cardboard required for retail packaging. We have bins. We recognise there is more we can do to improve our also been able to remove many of the protective plastic recycling rate and are implementing a range of initiatives packaging parts used during manufacturing and have including centralising accountability for recycling, providing optimised our shipping container stacking. This enabled additional recycling bins and employee education to try to us to increase the density of packing, reducing both costs improve the recycling rate. and the environmental impact of shipping and distribution. Operational waste (tonnes) and recycling rate (per cent) 100 10,000 75 7,500 8,263 7,752 50 6,279 5,000 25 2,500 0% Tonnes FY17 FY18 FY19 Waste tonnes Recycling rate Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 57 Sustainability at Telstra Responsible business Digital futures Environmental solutions Environmental risk and compliance Approach Progress The nature, scale and geographical spread of our activities Telstra, as a minimum, seeks to be compliant with all bring inherent environmental challenges. Protecting the operationally relevant and applicable environmental laws. environment is one of our key priorities and our environmental We have not been prosecuted for, or convicted of, any management system is certified to the International Standard significant breaches of environmental regulation during ISO14001:2015. The minimum performance expectations for the financial year and we have not had any material incidents. managing our most important environmental issues are defined Each year we conduct an enterprise-wide review of our by our Global Health, Safety, Wellbeing and Environment environment program and plan improvement initiatives for (HSWE) Management System, including for: the coming period. This year, we strengthened our existing • Climate change environmental compliance program to better integrate into existing business practices and streamline accountability • Resource use – including resource efficiency and for environmental compliance into our standard way of working responsible lifecycle management globally. We are also continuing to deliver training and improve • Pollution – including to land, water, air or other receptors our systems of work in response to current and emerging environmental requirements. This includes improving the way • Waste management we access land and consult with residents before conducting • Land stewardship including biodiversity, heritage, telecommunications works. land access and land management • Hazardous chemical management Telstra’s Executive Leadership Team maintains governance over our environmental compliance activities, so that our key environmental compliance risks and controls are understood and promoted across the organisation. We work through our key environmental risks and develop cross-company solutions through an Environmental Steering Committee, reporting to our HSWE Executive Leadership Forum. We also provide regular updates on key environmental risk management and compliance activities to the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. For more information on our approach to mobile phones, base stations and health (EME), please refer to the Responsible business section of this report. Bigger Picture 2019 Sustainability Report 58 For more information about our sustainability approach and performance, as well as access to our Sustainability Report 2019 Data Pack and additional downloads, please visit our sustainability reporting website. For further enquiries, email us at sustainability@team.telstra.com
