THE CREON WAY STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT AND COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / April 15 2019 FROM THE FOREST OF SMÅLAND, SWEDEN, WITH SUSTAINBILITY IN OUR HEART Creon is an industry leading outsourcing partner of branded items. By letting Creon manage the whole value chain from product development to end distribution, large sized corporations save resources, gain control and strengthen their brand communication to their stakeholders and the public. THIS IS our customers in order to ensure the survival of our business. That is our challenge. CREON So far, we have been successful in this endeavor and were awarded Best in Sustainability by our branch organization in Sweden, twice. The award had several effects. For us, Companies in the business of branded we were happy to prove that business growth items contribute greatly to the welfare was possible to achieve while adhering to very of communities around the world by prohigh sustainability principles. For our competviding manufacturing and administrative itors, they realized that Creon was pointing employment. This can lead to improved the way forward. For our customers, a Best general health, higher educational standin Sustainability award meant that when they ards and the possibility of social mobility sourced their branded items from Creon, among people in communities where they knew they were getting quality items, manufacturing takes place. responsibly made. Creon takes its social and environmental responsibility very seriously. We are constantly striving to ensure that the manufacture and transport of our products is carried out responsibly and in line with CREON IS A SMALL COMPANY, BUT the United Nations Global Compact 10 OUR AMBITIONS ARE BIG. WE ARE Principles. At the same time, we must PROUD OF OUR ACHIEVEMENTS. be competitive in our pricing towards STATE to our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Creon Promotion AB reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the MENT United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this year’s Communication on Progress, we describe of continued support our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business to Global Compact strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to always share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. In this annual Communication on Progress, In 2016 we took our business model one step further we describe our actions to continually when we introduced a system to measure sustainability improve the integration of the Global Compact in the range of items we produce. This includes enand its principles into our business strategy, suring that our suppliers adhere to the Creon Code of culture and daily operations. We also commit Practice regarding society and the environment. to always share this information with our This year, 2019, we can see that the amount of sustainstakeholders using our primary channels able products is rising and that we are working closer of communication. with our producers towards our sustainable goals. We utilize our tried and tested responsible manufacturing facilities to a greater degree because they have the capacity and certification required by Creon. “ Our aim is that all of our customers will be able to measure, and improve the Yours sincerely sustainability level of their company merchandise”. MIKAEL SVENSSON / CEO CREON Mikael Svensson / CEO CREON’S Creon’s operations are taking place in regions where functioning social safety APPROACH nets are lacking. The majority of all products we supply to our clients are produced in countries with high risk of TO THE 10 human rights abuses. PRINCIPLES As buyers, we have an important role to set requirements of social accountability, follow them up in practice and influence business partners to positive change. Our work with becoming a socially responsible business partner to our Our work with integrating the 10 principles clients and suppliers started in 2007. is therefore to the largest part devoted to maximizing our positive impact on downInstead of taking the easy path forward stream suppliers that are active in regions and limit our practical actions to our with high risk operations in Sweden, we realize that our business can be utilized for much more value if we leave the comfort zone. WHERE IT By applying our efforts and resources where it really matters, we are conREALLY MATTERS vinced that our business can have a positive impact on people and planet. communication on progress COMMUNI Creon offers a very wide product portfolio covering branded items that large corporations need to represent CATION ON their own organizations, internally and externally. PROGRESS From the very start we made this possible through our business model the Profile Store. This requires Creon to have a wide network of sourcing channels (suppliers, agents, producers and service providers) in order to fulfill the demands. THIS COMPLEX SOURCING ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH WE OPERATE REQUIRES ESTABLISHED PROCESSES TO FOLLOW AND CLEAR COMMUNICATION OF HOW THE PRINCIPLES SHOULD BE SAFEGUARDED. NO PRODUCT IS ACCEPTED TO THE ASSORTMENT IF THE BASIC LABEL ISN’T REACHED. When purchasing branded items and workwear from the Profile Store the customer actively support ours as well as their own sustainable productivity goals. Every item from the Profile Store is then TAKING THE stored and transported climate neutral. By doing this we are aiming to make PROFILE STORE an even more direct impact to all 10 principals. TO THE NEXT LEVEL By applying a sustainability rating to our products our aim is to become even more aware of how we can enhance our customers brands by introducing a sustainability rating being really true to their core values. assessment, Policy and Goals HUMAN The risk of human rights abuses and poor work place conditions in the sourcing environment RIGHTS is high. It is therefore of utmost importance for Creon to have well established relationships with all partners that have influence in the AND sourcing phase. LABOUR CREON’S POLICY IS TO ONLY CONTRACT PARTNERS THAT SHARE PRINCIPLES OUR AMBITIONS AND MAKE SURE PRODUCTS ARE PRODUCED UNDER HIGHLY ETHICAL CIRCUMSTANCES. Our code of conduct and supplier agreements emphasize the expectations we have on our partners. Know where, and by whom each product we OUR purchase are produced. AMBITION Make sure that 100% of all suppliers understand, sign and follow our code of conduct. IS ALWAYS TO: Conduct risk assessments on all new producers Make sure third party Social Audits are carried out at all production facilities that are perceived as “high risk” in our risk assessment. If they are already certified according to SA8000, Amfori (minimum level C), GOTS or similar, our social audit process can be adjusted. Initiate improvement dialogues with each supplier where deviations have been detected in a Social Audit. Utilize our room for negotiation to steer positive development Affect industry colleagues to address human rights issues in their own supply chains and actively support initiatives such as Amfori memberships or SA 8000 certification. ONLY CONTRACT Contribute to raise the maturity of our industry SUPPLIERS WITH HIGH in regard to Social and Environmental ETHICAL AWARENESS. Responsibility AUDITING FORMAT: ALL SOCIAL AUDITS SHOULD BE IMPLE BASED ON SA8000 STANDARD. SA8000 ADDRESSES THE GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES 1-6. MENT There are several perspectives of supplier sourcing to balance together with financial ATION aspects. Awareness training is the foundation of sound decisions. Training of all personnel working with operational purchasing should be conducted continuously in our organization. All this in compliance with our ISO 9001 certification. We conduct CSR-related risk assessments for every new supplier that is contracted Our Code of Conduct is revised by us. The risk assessment focus on product annually, it is guided by the principles category, sourcing country and supplier of the Universal Declaration of Human due diligence. Rights, the UN Global Compact and the conventions issued by the International Even if a product we bring in to the assortLabour Organization (ILO) as well as the ment is managed and sourced by a European OECD guidelines for multinational entersupplier, we shall if deemed necessary in our prises. Each new supplier shall receive, risk assessment, carry out a third party Social understand and sign it. Audit at the first tier manufacturer. We make sure to follow-up the During 2018 our sourcing criteria progress of factory social compliance has continued to develop even for repeat orders. further. We continued to select factories to a higher degree that We share the responsibility among are already certified according multiple employees in order to to required standards such as SA create a broad dedication to our 8000, Amfori, ICTI and GOTS. We CSR-program. All with the responsialso made sure all employees or bility and authority to make sure we partners responsible for sourcing put our promises into practice. understand and follow our sourcing criteria. We highlight the risk aspects in our industry to all stakeholders and we shall contribute to bring to the attention of industry colleagues to actively assess and monitor human rights THE SUSTAINABILITY RATING aspects in their own supply chains. PROGRAM IS UP AND RUNNING FOR OUR LARGEST CUSTOMER. Over the past year, we have increased our efforts in knowledge sharing and addressed the need of more Supply Chain transparency in our industry. OUT COME 2018 1. 2. 3. creon sustainability rating According to our internal Sourcing The Creon sustainability model has three levels. Guidelines, we need to carry out a new Each level is based on criteria defined by us and social audit every third year. During 2018, serves to provide a basis for sustainability aswe carried out three new third party audits, sessment. As for today, this rating has only been this due to the fact that we succeeded in used for one customers, but it has been decided maintaining and utilizing previously certhat it should be implemented for all customers. tified partners. Creon views this as strong 1. Exceeds Industry Standards Manufacturers are evidence that we have succeeded in our chosen based on their commitment to high sustainability aim to first control the quality of promise and ethical standards. of our manufacturing partners and then to increase the quality and efficiency of our 2. Improved procedures Extra measures have been cooperation activities. Creon has also taken taken to reduce environmental impact or increase overall community benefit. a decision to decrease the amount of suppliers to work with, to make a closer coop3. Certifications Optimal CSR and environmental eration and the production process more standards achieved and certified. transparent and easy to monitor. OUT THIS YEAR WE HAVE ACCOMPLISHED COME THE FOLLOWING: 2018 A CSR group has been created to ensure compliance. Sourcing routines has been updated and new Code. Improved cooperation with already assessed manufacturing facilities. Creon has been responsible for three A CSR GROUP new Amfori Social audits carried out by an accredited third party the last year. HAS BEEN 2016 was the first year as a certified GOTS reseller (April). As a first, Creon succeeded in implementing two GOTS certified textile CREATED products before the end of that year. TO ENSURE During 2017 we added a further five new GOTS certified items. We have even persuaded several of our customers to move from standard COMPLIANCE. textile materials to OEKO TEX certified textiles. This is due to the fact that Creon has established new cooperation with GOTS and OEKO TEX certified manufacturers in Bangladesh. TARGETS FOR THE COMING YEAR To improve our compliance framework enabling better possibilities to measure and follow-up CSR data. During 2018 Creon as an organization has started a CSR-group, containgin 5 employees. Creon has also invested in new IT-system. These two aspects will contribute in order to follow environmental aspects. One of our aims for 2019 is to update our own Code of Conduct and supplier agreements. We have increases our focus in the CSR and chemical aspect in order to follow compliance. During 2019 we will also try to implement our “from good to great” set up for all of our customers. This is a set up where we try to get the products that has the best impact on the environment for our customers, meaning that Creon will continue to increase the number of ECO/CSR friendly products as a whole We will continue to increase the number of SA 8000, Amfori (minimum level C) , ICTI or other equivalent certified factories throughout our supply chain. ENVI RON MEN TAL assessment, policy and goals PRIN Our Environmental policy is described in our ISO 14001 management system. The CIPLES policy, in general terms, is to integrate environmental consideration in everything we do. We strive to minimize our environmental impact with precautionary actions and influence sourcing channels towards better environmental manufacturing processes. Our two areas of environmental focus correspond to the most significant impact of our operations. These are “Production” and “Transport”.. PRODUCTION Creon does not operate or control production facilities directly. However, by using our leverage for producers where we have the biggest purchase volumes, we shall promote and influence producers to adapt to more environmentally friendly processes. It is important for Creon that we adhere to increasing regulatory standards regarding the use of harmful chemicals and other harmful substances in manufacturing. Therefore, we aim to only cooperate with manufacturing organizations and production facilities that have documented qualification, and that have processes in place to monitor and minimize the use of harmful substances. There are good environmental initiatives availaIN MARCH 2016 WE BECAME ble at the market. Creon is working actively toTHE FIRST GOTS COMPANY gether with our clients and suppliers to replace and develop the assortments to include these IN OUR LINE OF BUSINESS. alternatives for the present year. A proof of that work is that Creon In March 2016 became the first GOTS company in our line of We have identified textile apparel business. To learn more about GOTS, please as the product group with the most read: www.global-standard.org negative environmental impact. Therefore, we strive to have as much of our textile assortment eco labeled. TRANSPORTS Efficient packing and wrapping is an important environmental factor. Creon shall work actively OUR BUSINESS MODEL IS HEAVILY with minimizing innerand outer packing mateDEPENDENT ON TRANSPORTS IN rial of our products in order to avoid shipping air pockets. We will therefore follow up the average OUR EXPORT OPERATIONS WITH density of our outbound shipments for all modes FREQUENT AIR SHIPMENTS. of transports combined. implementation We shall always conduct The goal is to reach 185 KG of density net proda transportation benchmark favoring the most uct weight per shipped cubic meter with a minienvironmental friendly alternative. mum of 150 kg. Our customers are the ones that ultimately decide what mode of transport that should be used. THE GOAL IS TO HAVE 100% We have an important task to affect a “greener” OF THE OUTBOUND DELIVERIES purchase behavior among our clients. By proacTO BE CLIMATE NEUTRAL. tively analyzing our clients’ purchase patterns and suggesting alternative ways of transporting goods, we have been able to combine shipments and replace several smaller air shipments in to bulk orders shipped by sea. Creon Promotion entered the Go Green climate program and started to compensate for Co2 emissions caused by our outbound shipments. measurements of outcome 100% OF OUR Offset for 2018 a total of 581.397 kg/t CO2e INTERNAL with GoGreen Climate Neutral services. Deutsche Post DHL Group offset the greenhouse ENERGY gas emissions generated by transportation and logistics through climate protection projects: CONSUMPTION • Efficient Stoves, Lesotho (CDM 5482, GS 913, Fairtrade ID 35357) STEMS FROM • Household Biogas Program, China (CDM 2898, GS 1239) • Wind Power Plant, Nicaragua RENEWABLE (CDM 2315, GS 567) • Ceramic Water Purifiers, Cambodia WIND POWER (VER, GS 1020) • Biosand Water Filters, Honduras (VER, GS 1290) • ORB Energy Solar program, India (VER, GS 4289) In this report we choose to present our • Borehole Rehabilitation, Malawi contribution to the overall decrease in (VER, GS 1247) fossil fuel usage and environmental initi• Landfill Gas Plant, Turkey atives due to our activities and support. (VER, GS 440) • Reforestation, Panama (VER, GS 2557, CCBS, FSC) ANTI CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES all auditors contracted by Creon Promotion AB are working for accredited agencies who in their turn are being audited. The highest risk of corruption is in the sourcing phase. As a company holding large corporate accounts, Creon and its personnel are desired platforms for sub supplier’s ambitions to reach the market. The key issue for Creon is to maintain its integrity and make sure we have methods of making decisions in an objective manner. THE POLICY IS FOLLOWED UP AND REVISED ONCE EVERY YEAR. Internal policies for representation and During the past year, internal policies for receiving of gifts from suppliers have representation and receiving of gifts from been implemented. suppliers have been implemented. true CSR work pays off In previous years As further evidence that dedicated CSR Creon has received awards from our branch activities can have a positive effect on business where the motivation was that Creon has we are proud to announce that during 2018 we shown that the reputation of the business have signed agreements with several major area of branded items has been enhanced global corporations that place the highest by our efforts regarding CSR and sustaindemands on their suppliers in regard to CSR ability. We are very proud that, despite beand sustainability – Lantmännen, Essity, Epiroc ing a small company, we have succeeded in and Dynapac. We would not have acquired having a positive environmental effect on an these important customers without our assoentire business area that, in Sweden alone, ciation with Global Compact and a clear CSR has an annual turnover of 600 – 700 M EURO. agenda that we adhere to in everything we do. © 2019 Creon Promotion AB | Sweden | +46 470 700 540 contact@creon.se. All rights reserved
