Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 1 Contents Statement of support .............................................................................................................................. 3 About Scope Global................................................................................................................................. 4 Human rights........................................................................................................................................... 5 Labour ..................................................................................................................................................... 9 Environment ......................................................................................................................................... 13 Anti-corruption ..................................................................................................................................... 15 Cover image: Supreme Chef contestant Kanchana did not let her hearing difficulties stop her from signing up for the televised contest. Supreme Chef is an initiative of Sri Lanka Skills for Inclusive Growth, which Scope Global delivers in behalf of the Australian Government. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 2 Statement of support 14 March 2019 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Scope Global reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This is our second year as a member of the United Nations Global Compact. In our annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Christine Molitor Chief Executive Officer Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 3 About Scope Global Scope Global delivers international development and education programs that benefit Australia, Asia and the Pacific. Through our work, we facilitate learning, study and professional development opportunities, and partner with governments and communities to improve livelihoods and contribute to social and economic development. Our specialised team is headquartered in Adelaide, South Australia and operates throughout the Asia-Pacific region. Everything we do is inspired by our vision to enable people to positively change their world. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 4 Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policy and goals At Scope Global, we hold diversity, inclusiveness and human rights as core principles. We expect that our employees, personnel (including consultants and sub-contractors), business partners and suppliers respect and comply with human rights principles including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The nature of our work means that we regularly deliver programs on behalf of clients such as the Australian Government Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Australian Government Department of Education and Training, the Asian Development Bank, and Australian universities. Our clients have clear expectations about protecting and promoting human rights. We aim to integrate these alongside our own core principles and procedures, so that all people can access, benefit and contribute to the development of their communities on an equal basis. In 2019 we revised our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy 2018–21 to align with the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade’s Gender and Women’s Empowerment Strategy, Disability Action Strategy and the legislative framework that supports human rights, anti-discrimination and equal opportunity. This year Scope Global launched a new service, the Disability Inclusion Practice. The practice aims to break down barriers to inclusion by actively engaging people with lived experience of disability as experts. It offers a range of services to businesses including technical advice, consulting, monitoring and evaluation, and mentoring. Inclusivity is built into the design of a number of programs we deliver for our clients, taking into account gender equality, disability inclusion, disadvantaged groups, and inclusion for populations that live in rural and remote areas. As an example, inclusivity is central to our delivery of Australia Awards and Skills for Growth programs on behalf of the Australian Government. Implementation Scope Global works to protect the human rights of all of our personnel, program participants, partners and stakeholders. Examples of concrete actions Scope Global takes in this area include: • Respecting and protecting human rights o All staff and personnel are required to sign our Code of Conduct that sets out our standards of professional conduct. o All staff receive child protection training as part of their induction in line with Scope Global’s Child Protection Policy. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 5 o We actively champion the skills and expertise of people with disabilities through our public communication materials and networks, internal and external meetings and events, and participation in a global ‘Development Enabled’ campaign with Devex. o We have expanded our focus on reconciliation in Australia through providing Aboriginal cultural awareness training for our people and forming a Reconciliation Action Working Group. We are working to develop the organisation’s first Reconciliation Action Plan in 2019. o We carefully evaluate the organisations we partner with overseas for our student mobility programs. We value working with ethical, safe businesses to uphold this standard. o Our informed consent procedure is designed to ensure our personnel and program participants are not endangered in any way through photography, video and audio recordings. o Through Australian Government Skills for Growth initiatives that we facilitate in the Asia-Pacific region, we assisted in the implementation of projects to respect, protect and promote the human rights of marginalised populations such as women, people with disability and early school leavers. For example: In Sri Lanka, a televised Supreme Chef competition was coordinated by the Skills for Inclusive Growth program. Its objective was to increase interest in professional cookery and provide alternative pathways to employment in the eastern and northern-central districts in Sri Lanka. The competition included 20 trainees who underwent courses in food preparation, cooking and other useful skills in order to enter into the hospitality industry. Participants included men and women from regional areas, as well as people with disabilities. See the case study on page 8 for further information about Skills for Inclusive Growth. The Kiribati Institute of Technology’s Certificate I in Bridging was launched with an aim to increase young I-Kiribati school leavers’ employability. The program is focused on teaching I-Kiribati in remote locations basic reading, writing, life, and computational skills. o Expressing the right to self-expression by continuing to support Pride and Diversity, an organisation that supports employers to facilitate a safe working environment for people who identify as part of the LGBTI+ community. • Ensuring our personnel are provided with safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities Our Work, Health and Safety Policy has been developed and applied across all operations throughout Australia, Asia and the Pacific, ensuring that each location in which we operate is compliant with the legislation. We have processes and audits in place to assess our workplace, to identify any potential hazards and any required actions to mitigate these. • Protecting our personnel from workplace harassment We have a zero tolerance to any form of harassment and have established policies and training about our Code of Conduct, bullying in the workplace, and diversity and inclusion to promote this standard. This training also aims to ensure there are effective channels and resources for reporting and investigating any complaints that are presented. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 6 Measurement of outcomes Scope Global has tracked and measured performance of human rights principles over the past year by: • Providing induction training to all new staff members, both Australian and overseas-based, that covers expectations under our Code of Conduct, our workplace bullying and harassment policies and procedures, disability inclusion, and child protection. • Upholding equal opportunity employment practices to ensure all applicants and potential applicants are treated fairly and without bias. • Through our Disability Inclusion Practice, conducted an organisation-wide audit of disability accessibility. The recommendations of this audit will inform an Accessibility Action Plan for Scope Global, which will be launched in 2019. • Holding staff events and campaigns to raise awareness about and celebrate key international days such as International Women’s Day (8 March), 16 Days of Activism Against Gender-Based Violence (25 November to 10 December) and International Day of People with a Disability (5 December). • Supporting a vast array of local suppliers (such as local community-based and Aboriginal businesses) and charitable organisations through business practices, donations and staff volunteering. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 7 CASE STUDY Skills for Inclusive Growth in Sri Lanka: Jeyalini Navaradnam Jeyalini is 19 years old from Karadiyanaru, Batticaloa. When Jeyalini’s father left the family six years ago, her mother supported her to gain her basic education. After school, however, Jeyalini was unable to find work and lived with her grandparents. During a Skills for Inclusive Growth awareness-raising event, Jeyalini expressed her interest in finding employment. Initially, she was not interested in hospitality services or management because of the negative social stigma towards women in the industry in Sri Lanka. After receiving further advice, she decided to join a cookery course. Jeyalini has now finished the course and is undertaking on-the-job training at a hotel in Batticaloa. She is paid during her training and provided with safe accommodation. “The cookery skill brings brightness in my life and will help to eradicate the poverty from my family’s life,” said Jeyalini. She is inspired to continue to work in the hotel sector and is looking forward to securing ongoing employment and being a role model for other young women in the sector. Scope Global implements Sri Lanka Skills for Inclusive Growth on behalf of the Australian Government. For further information, visit www.inclusivegrowth.com.lk Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 8 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals Scope Global is committed to providing high standards of employment conditions and approaches to engage employees, contractors and personnel who undertake work on behalf of the organisation. Our diverse workforce operates throughout Australia, Asia and the Pacific. We provide opportunities to enable individuals to reach their full potential irrespective of their individual background. Our policies and procedures are reviewed regularly to guide areas such as making fair employmentrelated decisions and arrangements, ensuring fair and equitable remuneration, diversity and inclusion in the workplace, and work health and safety in all workplace locations. Scope Global’s work aims to promote ethical sourcing and procurement, working towards the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, as well as the effective abolition of child labour. In 2018, we successfully implemented a number of initiatives that were highlighted in our 2017 Communication on Progress. These were informed by our aforementioned Diversity and Inclusion Strategy. New initiatives include providing additional employment benefits by introducing paid parental leave entitlements and a domestic violence leave policy. We also reviewed and strengthened our performance planning, development and assessment framework. Further, in the next year our CEO Christine Molitor will become a Workplace Gender Equality Agency Pay Equity Ambassador. This is an initiative of the Australian Government that brings together heads of government and CEOs who are committed to playing a leadership role in achieving pay equity and gender equality in their organisation and community. Implementation Examples of actions Scope Global has taken to ensure high standards of labour rights and employment conditions include: • Employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Our Recruitment and Selection Policy sets out rigorous processes to be followed to ensure that our employment decisions are based on specific job and organisational criteria, with skilled personnel being placed on our panels to determine these decisions. • Employment conditions are developed strictly in accordance with Australian laws and where relevant, local laws in the countries in which we operate. When operating in countries Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 9 outside of Australia, we apply the Australian National Employment Standards where local provisions are less favourable. • Scope Global has designed its own job evaluation and remuneration framework in accordance with the Hay Group data and methodology, ensuring that our salaries are relevantly benchmarked and are competitive in the market. • Preventing discrimination: We have zero tolerance to any form of harassment. We have established policies and training on our Code of Conduct, bullying in the workplace, and diversity and inclusion, and ensure that there are effective channels and resources for reporting and investigating any complaints that are presented. • Health and safety: We are committed to ensuring the health and safety of our personnel. Our Work Health and Safety Policy sets out rigorous responsibilities, strategies and controls that are in place to ensure all workers have a clear understanding of their duties and the duties of others in relation to work health and safety. • In 2018 Scope Global introduced a paid parental leave policy, providing entitlements for primary and secondary carers. The policy includes 10 weeks of paid leave and also 12 months of superannuation payments to the primary carer, which has since been up taken by five employees to date. • Scope Global introduced a new policy for paid domestic violence leave in 2018. This policy provides employees who experience domestic and family violence access to resources and 10 paid leave days (above all other leave provisions) in order to seek the support that they require. Senior leaders across the business received training on domestic and family violence to ensure that they have the skills to effectively support their employees. • Employee views: Our employees are regularly consulted for their views about issues that may affect them, for example employment conditions, staff culture and strategy. In June 2018, Scope Global undertook its first Great Place to Work Trust Index survey across the business to measure engagement, our culture and to benchmark against the 50 best places to work. The results indicate that our baseline is ‘healthy’, receiving scores across the upper 70% across each of the areas in the survey. Our strengths are across diversity and inclusion, fairness, camaraderie and collaboration. An Organisational Culture and Capability Plan has been developed to address targeted strategies to raise our scores and to achieve our aim of reaching employer of choice recognition. Measurement of outcomes Scope Global monitors and evaluates performance against labour principles through the following measures: • Employee engagement: We have conducted regular employee engagement surveys since 2013 and reported the results to our Board. We have developed an employee engagement strategy to address identified areas of importance as a result of the survey feedback and overall engagement levels. Our 2018 Great Place to Work Index survey, as aforementioned, offered an opportunity to reflect on our employees’ experiences at work. • Employee demographics: We monitor our employee demographics and implement specific interventions or recruitment tactics if required. The following is a selection of employee demographic data: o 63% of our workforce identify as female o 40% of our Board and Executive team identify as female Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 10 o 61% of our senior management team identify as female. • Safety in the workplace: We work to ensure our personnel have high standards of employment conditions and are safe at work by: o Regularly reviewing and maintaining work health and safety and incident-related policies and procedures o Responding to workplace-related injuries and actively working to mitigate future injuries and identified risks to safety at work. • Periodic review: Senior managers review our labour rights-related risks and opportunities on a regular basis and evaluate feedback and suggestions from personnel about ways to improve working conditions. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 11 CASE STUDY Tonga Skills for Inclusive Growth: Sione Sione Te’e (pictured below right) was one of the first people living with a disability to join a training activity in the Tonga Skills program. At the time of his first training he was a part-time carver at the Tonga National Youth Congress Virgin Oil Project, carving coconut shells that were sold at the project site. Sione, who is in a wheelchair as the result of an accident, was recommended by local association NATA to join a Mabe Pearl Carving Training. His first training was so successful he was able to make new products with different designs. His employers were so impressed with his improved productivity and product quality that they more than doubled his wage for the three days he worked at the site. Sione was also able to start making products at home, which provided additional income. In February 2018, Tropical Cyclone Gita destroyed the Virgin Oil Building and Sione and another four people in wheelchairs were laid off until the building was reconstructed. Sione then attended two other trainings funded by Tonga Skills. As a result of the training, Sione produced a piece that will be showcased in the Royal Academy Oceania Exhibition in London. He has also expanded his skills in textiles, printing and picture making. The skills Sione has learned this year through Tonga Skills have transformed his art and provided him with opportunities on multiple levels. Sione now earns five times the amount he earned this time last year and has since trained one of his former colleagues, who is also a person in a wheelchair. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 12 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Scope Global takes environmental protection and sustainability seriously, and promoting greater environmental responsibility is a growing area of focus throughout the organisation. We are committed to integrating principles of sustainable development into our work by considering environmental, social and economic issues in our approaches and decisions. Most of Scope Global’s work is office based, which means our direct environmental impact is relatively small. We acknowledge legal obligations and government requirements that are relevant to our work. In the past year, Scope Global took a range of actions to better understand our environmental footprint and support environmental protection. This included establishing an Environmental Working Group and introducing a green waste initiative to include organics bins in the office. At our headquarters in South Australia, 50% of waste that was put in the general rubbish bin was green organic – making this change a simple, yet effective way to reduce our impact on the environment. The Environmental Working Group has developed a three-year strategy to improve environmental performance, which we aim to begin implementing in 2019. Through the strategy we will monitor Scope Global’s carbon footprint based on our headquarters’ electricity, paper and water consumption data, and in turn identify how to reduce this consumption. We aim to investigate more environmentally responsible sources of supply of materials and services. Finally, we aim to raise environmental awareness in the office through internal initiatives. Implementation Examples of Scope Global’s approach to environmentally sustainable practice include: • Ensuring we are compliant with relevant government directions and legislative requirements across all country offices. • Our Code of Conduct applies to all Scope Global personnel, requiring that personnel adhere to professional values and meet ethical and legal standards relevant to their work, which includes care and respect for the environment. • Encouraging individual and office-based recycling throughout all business locations, and improving our soft and hard-plastic recycling. • Wherever possible and practicable, purchasing environmentally sound products such as paper for printing and office supplies. • Disposing of waste in environmentally responsible ways. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 13 • Collaborating through online conversation and meeting tools wherever possible to reduce the environmental impact of long-distance travel. • Upgrading our facilities to enable improved environmental efficiencies, for example upgrading air conditioning systems. • Due to the nature of our operations, we do not handle hazardous or dangerous substances. Where cleaning chemicals have been identified onsite, we maintain material safety data sheets and appropriate storage and waste facilities to minimise exposure. • Placing green organics bins in all of our kitchens at our Adelaide headquarters, leading to a 50% reduction in general rubbish. • Monitoring and improving our baseline consumption of electricity, paper and water. Measurement of outcomes Scope Global regularly monitors and evaluates environmental performance. The following are examples: • We comply with relevant legal and regulatory obligations in the countries we operate in. • We communicate, train and develop our people to support environmentally safe and sustainable practices, for example storage and removal of chemicals. • Our Executive team consistently and systematically reflects on and seeks to improve environmental practices across our operations. • We significantly reduced the green waste going to landfill through implementing new waste disposal systems in our headquarters, and continue to monitor changes in waste. • Through programs we managed during the reporting period, such as the Pacific Technical Assistance Mechanism Phase 2 and Vanuatu Skills Partnership, we supported teams and technical advisers to improve and protect the environment in developing countries in Asia and the Pacific. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 14 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Scope Global recognises the responsibility to develop, encourage and implement sound financial, legal and ethical decision-making practices to safeguard its assets and those assets of its clients against loss by fraud and as such has a zero tolerance for fraud and corruption. As an organisation we work to: • Provide a culture that espouses professional and ethical business practices from staff and service providers/contractors. • Ensure that systems, processes and resources effectively manage the risk of fraud. • Deter people from committing fraud. • Detect and report fraud or suspected fraud promptly. • Investigate suspected fraud promptly and professionally. • Implement effective sanctions against those found to be committing fraud. • Seek redress in respect of money or assets defrauded. Implementation Scope Global is committed to minimising the incidence of fraud and corruption through identifying risk and developing, implementing and regularly reviewing a range of prevention and detection strategies which include: Commitment to compliance • We are committed to complying with all relevant laws, including anti-corruption laws. • Scope Global has a nominated Fraud Control Officer. • Scope Global has detailed policies, guidelines and procedures in place to reduce the risk of corruption and respond to incidents. Our Fraud Risk Management Framework brings together all prevention, detection and response strategies adopted by Scope Global. The framework accords with the requirements of the Commonwealth Fraud Control Framework 2018. • Scope Global’s Code of Conduct sets out the standards of conduct expected from all employees and articulates the responsibility of all staff to report and escalate any suspected fraud or misconduct. All employees are required to sign this policy as acknowledgement of adherence. Robust procurement and contracting procedures • Scope Global’s Procurement Policy sets out mandatory expectations for efficient, competitive, fair and transparent procurement and ensures our legal and contractual obligations are met. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 15 • Scope Global is committed to applying the Commonwealth’s Value for Money principles. • Due diligence checklists are completed to mitigate financial, legal and reputational risk to Scope Global. • Scope Global’s Delegation of Authority is applied to all contracting and procurement. Education and training • All employees and contractors are required to undertake mandatory fraud awareness training on an annual basis. • Fraud awareness training is included as part of the staff induction process. Audit regime • Scope Global’s Audit and Risk Committee is a subcommittee of the Scope Global Board. Its main objective is to review and monitor the effectiveness and integrity of systems and processes in fulfilling its financial reporting responsibilities. • Scope Global engages a leading accounting and audit organisation to conduct its annual external audit. • The annual external audit regime consists of controls based testing (ensuring internal control systems are operating correctly) and a substantive-based financial audit to give stakeholders the necessary level of assurance they require with respect to the annual financial statements. • Scope Global’s risk based internal audit program is reviewed on an annual basis for efficacy and relevancy. Measurement of outcomes Scope Global continually monitors and evaluates its anti-corruption performance through a range of measures including: • Identifying fraud risk areas and developing appropriate mitigation strategies. • Working to identify fraud through regular review of operations. • Investigating alleged or suspected instances of fraud using qualified staff with expertise in investigation techniques and appropriate contractors. • Seeking the prosecution of people or organisations for fraud offences. • Using lawful avenues to recover money or property lost through fraudulent activity. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 16 Scope Global is pleased to affirm its continued support for the principles of the United Nationals Global Compact, and to take action to support the Sustainable Development Goals. www.scopeglobal.com Scope Global Communication on Progress 2018 | 17
