We Believe Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Contents We We We We We Believe Believe Believe Believe Believe Anything Discovery In Our No One Can Our Business Is Possible Never Ends People Do It Alone Is Sustainable Our Purpose Science & Innovation Working at Gilead Community Impact Practices & Environment Appendix About This Report The Science Driving It All Our People Make a Difference Providing Access A Smarter, Smaller Footprint About Gilead to Our Medicines A Message From Chairman Our Groundbreaking Research We Welcome and Celebrate Sustainability: Climate Governance and CEO Daniel O'Day and Development Diverse Perspectives Giving Back to Our Change, the Environment Communities and Global Health GRI Content Index Looking at 2018 Our Partnerships Our Global Workforce The Why Behind Our Work 05 22 38 60 74 100 Pa g e 2 201 8 201 8 3 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w About This Report To standardize our data collection, measurement and reporting activities, we use industry-leading frameworks such as the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and other frameworks. Gilead’s 2018 Year in Review is organized in accordance with the “core” reporting framework defined by the GRI Standards. This report covers all topics listed in the GRI Content Index for all entities listed in the company’s 2018 Form 10-K on the SEC Filings (http://investors.gilead.com/financial-information/sec-filings) page of our website. Report Content, Period and Boundary Following GRI’s principles for defining report content, Gilead considered stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality, completeness and other reporting principles. Refer to the GRI Content Index for additional information on the reporting period and boundaries for each indicator included in this report; these will differ for some metrics based on data availability before the publication date of this report. For indicators with 2017 reporting periods, we will provide updated 2018 data in 2019. We regularly re-evaluate the reporting boundaries for material topics to ensure they are the most current and complete. 4 201 8 201 8 5 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w Welcoming Daniel O’Day as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Daniel O’Day was named chairman and CEO following the departure of former President and CEO John F. Milligan, Ph.D., at the end of 2018. Dan was appointed following a comprehensive search led by the board of directors. He was selected based on his record of success in highly scientific and competitive therapeutic areas, his deep understanding of the evolving global healthcare environment, and his unwavering commitment to driving innovation, which will serve Gilead in our continuing quest to transform patients’ lives around the world. 6 201 8 201 8 7 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w A Message From Daniel O'Day Chairman and CEO We Believe In Our People Throughout my career, I’ve had the privilege of working with many smart and As I join my 11,000 colleagues at this remarkable company, I’m both humbled passionate individuals, and I’ve seen firsthand what people can achieve when they’re by the opportunity and excited about the potential I see. During this time of given an inclusive work environment in which every person and every voice receives unprecedented change in our industry, few companies possess the resources, equal value. This is why it is so important to ensure our people are always given employee passion and longstanding commitment to science and innovation that opportunities to learn, grow and achieve their greatest potential. I am grateful to be Gilead has shown for more than 30 years. part of a company that puts such emphasis on diversity and inclusion — a core value With new challenges and greater potential for progress than ever before, Gilead is that is essential to Gilead’s long-term success. well-positioned to build on our legacy of delivering transformational medicines for We Believe Our Business Is Sustainable patients. We are dedicated to discovering and developing lifesaving medicines, but As a large, global company, we understand the impact our day-to-day operations we also recognize that science alone can’t solve the world’s toughest healthcare can have on people and the environment. To help ensure we continue to execute challenges. We believe in putting patients first — and we do this in numerous ways our mission of providing lifesaving medicines in areas of unmet need, we have built by supporting access to healthcare services around the world and by forging a corporate social responsibility (CSR) program that supports patients, society, the partnerships with patient advocacy groups and healthcare professionals. planet and our business. In 2018, Gilead established its CSR committee to help ensure our business meets the highest social and environmental standards. Our I’ve spent a lot of time thinking about Gilead’s unique role as a leader and our ability approach to CSR, and our continued support of the UNGC/UN SDGs, reaffirms our to shape the future of healthcare during this era of change. As we seek to discover, commitment to drive short-, mediumand long-term action in the areas of human develop and commercialize innovative therapeutics in the areas of unmet medical rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. needs, our role is defined by three core beliefs: As chairman and CEO, I am committed to ensuring Gilead makes the most of We Believe Discovery Never Ends this unprecedented time in our industry. I am excited to be at Gilead and to work Behind every medication Gilead has developed over the last three decades is a alongside our talented employees to harness our collective commitment to doing group of dedicated individuals — across our entire company — united by a common what is right for patients. desire to make groundbreaking discoveries that can help patients and save lives. It’s this sense of purpose that has allowed Gilead to make a difference in the world. Thank you for believing in us. Our shared commitment has made possible the prevention and treatment of HIV/ AIDS and fueled our quest that may one day lead to finding a cure for HIV. It’s Daniel O’Day driven us to pursue a cure for cancer through our work in the field of cell therapy. And it’s what led to the development of a cure for hepatitis C. 8 201 8 201 8 9 Ye ar in Re vie w Ye ar in Re vie w 22.1B Looking at 2018 $ 2018 Total Revenue At Gilead, we strive to transform the promise of science and technology into therapies that have the power to cure, prevent or treat diseases and revolutionize the standard of care. We believe in our approach to innovation by relentlessly pursuing the best breakthroughs in science — whether they come from within our own labs or from our partnerships with other industry leaders. Looking back, 2018 was a year of strong and consistent operational and financial execution across our portfolio in HIV, HCV, cardiovascular and oncology. We also made great progress at strengthening our pipeline. Product Sales Largely driven by a successful launch of Biktarvy® and continued uptake of Descovy®, Genvoya® and Odefsey®, total revenue from our HIV medicines increased to $14.6 billion from $13 billion the previous year, even as overall product sales decreased in 2018 com$8.4B $3.0B pared with 2017 — notably due to the unique dynamics and curative nature of our hepatitis C virus (HCV) products. Our oncology sales grew substantially, with a total of $264 million Cash Cash From Dividends Paid in 2018 sales of Yescarta®, our chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR T) cell therapy. Operations to Stockholders Collaborations $31.5B $2.9B Cash, Cash Equivalents and Share Marketable Securities Repurchases In 2018, Gilead entered into 25 partnerships, licensing, merger & acquisition (M&A) or equity investment deals to significantly enhance our research pipeline in therapeutic $5.0B $6.3B areas including HIV, inflammation, immunotherapy, oncology and liver disease. Research and Development Debt These include collaborations with Pfizer, Sangamo Therapeutics, Verily, the National Expenses Repaid Cancer Institute, Hookipa, Gadeta, Trianni, Precision BioSciences, HiFiBiO Therapeutics, Tango Therapeutics, Scholar Rock and Agenus. 10 201 8 201 8 11 Our Purpose Our Purpose We Believe Anything Is Possible 12 201 8 201 8 13 FO eua truPrue rSptoosrey Our Purpose We never really expected people like me would be living with HIV We this long. To hear Douglas' story in his own words and learn more about Gilead's work to treat, Believe Nearly 30 years after being diagnosed with HIV, Douglas Brooks prevent and ultimately end Anything is alive and healthy — and in his words, it’s all thanks to Gilead. As the HIV epidemic, visit: Is Possible a patient-turned-employee, Doug is living proof and inspiration for G I LE A D.CO M/ Y I R20 1 8 why we do what we do: Discover and develop breakthrough HIV treatments. 14 201 8 201 8 15 Our Purpose The Why Behind Our Work Our Mission Gilead’s mission is to discover, We believe in relentlessly pursuing breakthroughs in science, whether they come from within our own labs or from our partnerships. develop and commercialize innovative therapeutics in the areas of unmet Our primary purpose is to help people with life-threatening diseases. Our work is built on four pillars that enable us to develop and deliver innovative medicines: medical needs. Supporting Patients: Our patients-first approach is demonstrated by our collaboration with patient advocacy organizations, our work to discover and develop therapies that revolutionize the standard of care and cure diseases, and offering comprehensive support programs that help meet the needs of patients and their caregivers. Our Core Science and Innovation: Through our own research, as well as partnerships with Values Are: universities, medical research institutions and other global pharmaceutical leaders, Gilead is bringing forward scientific and clinical advancements that prevent, treat or cure life-threatening diseases. • Integrit y We Inclusiveness: We promote a high-performing workplace culture informed by a diverse set • Inclusion Believe of backgrounds, experiences and points of view that enables our employees to embrace Anything Is Possible and leverage each other’s talents and diverse perspectives, foster a sense of belonging • Teamwork and purpose, achieve their full career potential, and contribute to Gilead’s success. Giving Back: We recognize that patients and communities often face challenges in • Accountabilit y accessing the best possible care, and we know that passion for scientific discovery alone — and that Gilead alone — cannot solve these challenges. Through our partnerships • Excellence with community organizations and our approach to corporate philanthropy, we support initiatives and programs that improve access to care, reduce disparities, improve education and support our local communities. 16 201 8 Our Purpose What We’re Doing to Address Global Challenges The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) calls for companies to align their operations with 10 universally accepted principles in human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Gilead became a signatory member in 2018, joining other industry-leading companies in supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Stemming from the UNGC, the UN SDGs identify impact areas where we can improve the quality of life for all people. By aligning our existing sustainability and social practices within the UNGC and the UN SDGs, we better articulate our commitment to our patients, local communities, society and the planet. Although Gilead supports all SDGs, we have identified key goals where we can deliver our greatest influence and positive impact. In particular, Gilead’s mission to provide lifesaving therapeutics to marginalized and underserved communities aligns strongly with SDG 3, “Good Health and Well-Being.” As Gilead expands our business and operations, we strive to further support global health and sustainable development. Our priority SDGs are displayed on pages 20 and 21. SDG icons are also used throughout this report to highlight areas where our work corresponds with specific goals. Additional information on alignment between our work and the SDGs can be found in the GRI Content Index of this report. 201 8 19 Our Purpose Our Purpose Good Health and Well-Being Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure We expand access to innovative therapeutics that improve human health We leverage science and innovation to develop industry-leading worldwide. We aim to help end epidemics of AIDS and hepatitis, and therapeutics for areas of unmet medical need. combat other communicable diseases. Qualit y Education Reduced Inequalities We educate and train healthcare providers on advanced therapies, especially We formed a Diversity Council in 2018 to enhance our inclusion and in low-income and developing regions. diversity initiatives worldwide. Gender Equalit y Responsible Consumption and Production We cultivate an inclusive and diverse workforce that celebrates differences in We use green and sustainable chemistry where possible to produce race, age, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity and thinking style. therapies that benefit human health and minimize environmental impact. Clean Water and Sanitation Climate Action We protect water-dependent ecosystems by using natural bioswales, We are committed to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions rainwater capture systems and water conservation measures. by 25% by 2025 compared with 2016 levels. We Believe Affordable and Clean Energy Partnerships for the Goals Anything Is Possible We generate and purchase renewable energy to offset grid-supplied We forge internal and external partnerships to improve patient energy at some of our worldwide facilities. care, strengthen health systems, and reduce social and environmental impacts. 20 201 8 201 8 21 S c i e n c e & I n n o vat i o n S c i e n c e & I n n ovat i o n We Believe Discovery N eve r Ends 22 201 8 201 8 23 S c i eFne ca et u&r eI nSntoovrayt i o n S c i e n c e & I n n ovat i o n Treating Cancer After All Else Fails Denise was diagnosed with lymphoma on her birthday. To learn more about After two different chemotherapy regimens failed to treat how we're working to bring We 30 tumors, she was told she had six months to live. Then, she hope to patients like Believe discovered CAR T cell therapy. She enrolled as patient No. 1 in Denise, visit: Discovery one of our cell therapy trials, a cutting-edge treatment that would N eve r Ends G I LE A D.CO M/ Y I R20 1 8 engineer her own immune system to attack her cancer. 24 201 8 201 8 25 S c i e n c e & I n n o vat i o n S c i e n c e & I n n ovat i o n 3 The Science Driving It All At Gilead, through science and innovation, our goal is to develop lifesaving products that make a difference for patients around the world. We envision a world where all disease is treatable, curable or preventable. For more than 30 years, we have used our scientific expertise to develop therapies that revolutionize the standard of care for many diseases. Still, we recognize that science alone is not enough — that is why we also support innovative partnerships We that address the very challenges that make certain communities disproportionally Believe susceptible to disease. Discovery N eve r Ends We also invest in communities and apply the same rigor we use for scientific innovation to how we support sustainable programs that focus on the intersection of diseases like HIV and social determinants of health. With a portfolio of more than 24 marketed products, we target areas of significant unmet medical need, including HIV/AIDS, liver diseases, hematology and oncology, inflammatory diseases, and respiratory diseases. 26 201 8 201 8 27 S c i e n c e & I n n o vat i o n S c i e n c e & I n n ovat i o n 9 Our Groundbreaking Research and Development Expanding to treatment. These include investigational long-acting injectables that could potentially Access in China Gilead’s portfolio features a number of category firsts, including complete treatment be administered just once a month — or even regimens for HIV and chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection available in once-daily every three months or longer. One of these single pills, and Yescarta, the first chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR T) cell therapy for compounds, GS-6207, is an investigational adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma. Gilead’s presence in China small molecule capsid inhibitor designed to expanded significantly in 2018, with disrupt the protein shell that protects the Today, our research and development efforts include hundreds of ongoing and the China National Medicinal Products Administration (NMPA) approving viral genome, interfering with two stages of planned clinical studies evaluating compounds with the potential to become the virus’s replication cycle. GS-6207 is now Epclusa®, Genvoya, Vemlidy®, medicines that set a new standard of care. At the end of 2018, our research and in clinical trials, and we are looking at other Harvoni® and Descovy. development pipeline included 119 active clinical studies, of which 41 were drugs to pair with it to create a potentially Phase 3 clinical trials. Increasing access to safe and effective and well-tolerated, long-acting effective treatments is vital to public treatment regimen. health in the world’s most populous country, which had more than 140,000 In addition to developing new treatment New Therapies for HIV new HIV-1 diagnoses in 2017 and has options, Gilead is committed to the prevention an estimated 10 million people living of HIV infection for appropriate individuals, For decades, Gilead has been a leader in developing innovative therapies to help with HCV. through the use of Truvada for PrEP® (pretreat HIV. Gilead’s newest HIV therapy, Biktarvy, is a daily single tablet regimen combining bictegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide (TAF). Approved exposure prophylaxis), a once-daily tablet More than 200 Gilead employees that is the first medication approved to help by the FDA in February 2018, Biktarvy was found to be effective and tolerable for work in China. adults new to treatment, as well as for stably suppressed adult patients transitioning prevent HIV infection. PrEP is one approach to We Believe from other medicines. In the United States, Biktarvy is the most prescribed product helping individuals who are HIV-negative and Discovery in the first 13 months, compared with any other products launched to treat HIV. at risk of HIV infection to reduce their chances N eve r of acquiring HIV through sex. In 2018, Gilead Ends A single tablet regimen can help make it simpler for patients compared with the launched its first U.S. television advertisement earliest HIV treatments that required dozens of medications to be taken each for Truvada for PrEP to help raise awareness day, multiple times a day. Still, our scientists continue to work on developing new and encourage people who have a higher treatments with the goal of making it even easier for patients to adhere by providing risk of HIV exposure to have a candid them with additional treatment and dosing schedule options, as well as compounds conversation about HIV prevention with their that may be effective for patients whose disease is showing greater resistance healthcare provider. 28 201 8 201 8 29 S c i e n c e & I n n o vat i o n S c i e n c e & I n n ovat i o n Biktarvy In the United States, Biktarvy is the most prescribed product in the first 13 months, compared to any other products launched to treat HIV. 1.18B 2018 Worldwide Sales $ We Believe Discovery N eve r Ends 30 201 8 201 8 31 S c i e n c e & I n n o vat i o n S c i e n c e & I n n ovat i o n Kite Is Advancing the State of Oncology In 2017, Gilead acquired Kite Pharma, solidifying our dedication to helping achieve one of the most ambitious goals of 21st century medicine: curing cancer. In 2018, we continued to advance a pipeline of cancer therapies including cell therapy, immunotherapy and targeted therapy. Kite’s cell therapy portfolio is led by Yescarta (axicabtagene ciloleucel), the first chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR T) cell therapy approved by the FDA for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory large B-cell lymphoma after two or more lines of systemic therapy. Yescarta works by genetically modifying immune cells to target tumors — effectively re-engineering a patient’s own T cells to detect and kill cancer cells. The European Commission granted marketing authorization to Yescarta in August 2018. To support patients in Europe, Kite has established a distribution center in the Netherlands and is building a manufacturing facility that is expected to begin operating in 2020. Our achievements at Kite were capped with one of the most prestigious honors in biopharmaceutical research: Yescarta was named co-winner of the 2018 Prix Galien USA Our Approach to Tackling Liver Diseases Award for best biotechnology product. Prix Galien aims to promote significant advances in pharmaceutical research. Each year, the award gives credit to the most important drugs Gilead has developed breakthrough medicines that can cure patients of hepatitis C introduced into the public market as well as to the achievements of the best research virus (HCV) infection regardless of the virus genotype or cirrhosis status. Gilead has team in the pharmaceutical field. It is considered the industry’s equivalent of the Nobel developed Vemlidy, which helps people living with hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection We prize and the highest accolade for pharmaceutical research and development. control their condition every day with a small once-daily tablet. Believe Discovery N eve r In addition to ongoing studies of Yescarta, Kite is advancing novel, investigational But we know that caring for people living with chronic illnesses is about more than Ends therapies for a range of hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. just medicine. Screening and increasing patient access to treatment is critical. That’s why we continue our work to expand hepatitis screening and linkage to care for We are also advancing oncology research through partnerships, licensing at-risk individuals and increase access to our medicines around the world. To do agreements, M&As, and strategic investments. And as a founding member of the this, we actively support the efforts of governments and partner with professional Foundation for the National Institute of Health’s Partnership for Accelerating Cancer organizations, patient advocacy groups, payers and healthcare professionals who Therapies, Gilead collaborates with peers to enhance understanding of cancer have declared their intention and commitment to work toward the World Health immunotherapy and engineered cell therapies. Organization (WHO) goal of elimination of viral hepatitis around the world by 2030. 32 201 8 201 8 33 S c i e n c e & I n n o vat i o n S c i e n c e & I n n ovat i o n Epclusa, the first pan-genotypic and pan-fibrotic treatment, now accounts for the Advancing Potential Treatments in Inflammatory Diseases majority of Gilead’s HCV product sales in the United States and about 75% of our HCV sales in Europe. In 2018, the NMPA approved Epclusa and Harvoni for the Despite several available and effective medications for patients with rheumatoid treatment of HCV, and Vemlidy for the treatment of HBV, bringing new treatment arthritis (RA), inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and other inflammatory conditions, options to the millions of people in China living with viral hepatitis. some of the existing treatments can stop providing adequate control of symptoms over time. We believe additional treatment options are needed, and our aim is to In HBV, we continue to work toward the goal of finding a cure. In 2018, Gilead shared break through the efficacy ceiling for patients with inflammatory conditions. numerous research findings with the scientific community and entered into new strategic partnerships to supplement our in-house research. Galapagos and Gilead entered into a global collaboration in 2015 for the development and commercialization of filgotinib, an investigational JAK-1 inhibitor, We are also developing medicines for nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and in inflammatory indications. In May 2018, Gilead and Galapagos announced that the primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC). NASH, a disease that causes fat accumulation EQUATOR Phase 2 trial of filgotinib in psoriatic arthritis met the primary endpoint. and inflammation in the liver and can lead to liver fibrosis, is expected to become the Gilead and Galapagos announced that the Phase 2b/3 SELECTION trial with filgotinib leading cause of liver transplantation by 2020. PSC is a rare and chronic condition in ulcerative colitis progressed into Phase 3 following an interim futility analysis in that damages the bile ducts and can lead to cirrhosis, liver failure and cancer. There which the data monitoring committee (DMC) recommended that the study proceed are no treatments to cure PSC or stop disease progression. as planned, evaluating 100 mg and 200 mg once-daily doses in biologic-experienced and biologic-naïve patients. In September 2018, Gilead and Galapagos announced Gilead is advancing multiple novel investigational compounds for the treatment of that the TORTUGA Phase 2 trial of filgotinib in ankylosing spondylitis met the primary advanced fibrosis due to NASH, and is currently conducting a Phase 3 trial in PSC. endpoint. At the same time, Gilead and Galapagos announced that the Phase 3 FINCH 2 trial in RA patients refractory to biologics met the primary and all key We secondary endpoints, in line with previous studies. The results from EQUATOR and Believe Asegua Is Bridging a Gap in Treatment TORTUGA were published in The Lancet. Discovery N eve r Ends Asegua Therapeutics is a Gilead subsidiary that produces authorized generics Filgotinib is our lead asset in this therapeutic area and has the potential to establish of Epclusa and Harvoni, offering health insurers a lower list price option for these a foundation for Gilead in combination treatment strategies to improve outcomes HCV medications. Pricing for the authorized generics more closely reflects existing for patients with RA, IBD and other inflammatory diseases. We continue to develop discounting on the branded products, providing payers with policy and contractual internal compounds and are actively evaluating external opportunities that can constraints an option that may enable them to more easily provide coverage to their complement or accelerate our internal efforts. insured populations and, ultimately, offer the promise of treatment and cure to more patients throughout the United States. 34 201 8 201 8 35 S c i e n c e & I n n o vat i o n S c i e n c e & I n n ovat i o n Our Partnerships Other collaborations include a strategic collaboration with Precision BioSciences to develop therapies targeting the in vivo elimination of HBV with Precision’s proprietary genome editing platform, ARCUS; a research collaboration and license agreement that grants Gilead exclusive rights to Hookipa’s TheraT® and Vaxwave® arenavirus vector-based immunization To make the fastest progress possible in the fight against technologies for HBV and HIV; and a scientific collaboration with Verily Life Sciences using life-threatening diseases, Gilead finds ways to build upon the Verily’s Immunoscape platform to identify and better understand the immunologic basis of complementary strengths and accomplishments of industry peers. rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and lupus-related diseases. Collaborations and acquisitions are an important part of Gilead’s growth strategy. During Gilead plans to pursue additional collaborations in 2019. 2018, Gilead executed 15 partnership, licensing, and M&A deals, and completed 10 equity investments in biopharma companies. These collaborations provide Gilead with access to new technology and resources that may enable rapid advancement in oncology and cell Strategic Collaborations and Investments therapy, HIV liver disease, and inflammatory diseases. Our 2018 collaborations in oncology and cell therapy included the following Research Structured Research Research industry innovators: Collaboration Acquisition Collaboration Collaboration Immunophenotyping γδ T-Cells; Build to Buy Electroporation (Modulation of Latent Platform for Inflam for Cell Therapy TGFβ for Fibrosis) • A worldwide collaboration using Sangamo’s zinc finger nuclease gene editing PARTNERSHIPS, LICENSING AND M&A technology platform to develop next-generation ex vivo cell therapies Research Research Research Out-licensing Research Research Research Research • A new Cooperative Research and Development Agreement with the Collaboration Gene Editing Collaboration Cell Therapies Collaboration Vaccines for Momelotinib for Myeloproliferative Collaboration Gene Editing Collaboration Neoantigen TCRs Collaboration (HIV Cure) Collaboration Bi-specific Abs for I/O National Cancer Institute to develop adoptive cell therapies targeting for Cell Therapy Targeting PatientSpecific Tumor HIV/HBV Cure Diseases for HBV Cure We patient-specific tumor neoantigens Neoantigens Believe Clinical Study Clinical Study Product Research Research Discovery • A strategic collaboration with Gadeta to develop novel gamma Collaboration Yescarta+ Collaboration GSAcquisition HIV Products Collaboration CRISPR Screening Collaboration Novel Small N eve r delta T cell receptor therapies Utomilumab for LBCL 9620+Vaccine for HIV Cure in Japan for I/O Molecules for Fibrosis Ends • A research collaboration and license agreement with HiFiBiO 1H 2018 2H 2018 1H 2019 Therapeutics to develop technology for discovery of neoantigen-reactive T cell receptors EQUITY INVESTMENTS Oncology • A global strategic collaboration with Tango Therapeutics for a Innovation Fund pipeline of targeted immuno-oncology treatments BioVentures Fund 36 201 8 201 8 37 W o r k i n g at G i l e a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d We Believe In Our People 38 22001 188 201 8 39 Wo Fera k ti nugr ea tS tGoi rl ey a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d As different as we are, we are all committed to our mission. Katie Watson and Tara MacCannell come from very different To hear more from Katie backgrounds. But at Gilead, they share a vision: to work together and Tara about what it means to deliver life-changing medicines for patients around the world. We to be part of the team at Believe By celebrating each other’s differences and unique perspectives, In Our Gilead, visit: People our employees make Gilead a company that is greater than the sum of its parts. Our employees are our not-so-secret strategy G I LE A D.CO M/ Y I R20 1 8 for tackling some of the world’s most challenging diseases. 40 201 8 201 8 41 W o r k i n g at G i l e a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d Gilead offers employees a unique opportunity to combine professional advancement and continual learning with the ability to impact our local communities and people around the world. No challenge is too great and no contribution too small to inspire us to act. Our people bring a spirit of service to everything they do, from advanced scientific research to mentorship and community engagement. We’re proud to support a workplace culture that allows all of us to bring our best selves and serve our highest purpose. How We Reward, Recognize and Retain Employees Our People Make At Gilead, we offer competitive compensation programs as well as country-focused benefits related to health, wellness, retirement, disability and leaves of absence. a Difference The Total Rewards program is designed to help attract, cultivate and retain the industry’s most talented workforce. We offer employees financial benefits including base pay, bonuses and stock grant opportunities; access to a variety of health and wellness resources; time-off benefits; and support for training and education. We We assess the benefits package each year to ensure we have in place the right offerings Believe At Gilead, we are inspired by delivering lifesaving therapies to patients in to help us attract and retain critical talent. Our Total Rewards package covers the In Our People need. Our core values — integrity, inclusion, teamwork, accountability and following core elements: excellence — are the cornerstones of everything we do. We’re also committed to creating, promoting and maintaining an inclusive, high-perCompensation and Financial Benefits forming culture in which all team members embrace and leverage each other’s talGilead is a pay-for-performance company that is committed to pay equity. We pay ents and backgrounds. Our sense of shared purpose and our culture of excellence employees based on market-based salary ranges. Pay decisions are made without enable us to reach millions of patients around the world and turn the tide on seriregard to personal characteristics such as gender, race, color, national origin, ous, life-threatening diseases. ethnicity, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, 42 201 8 201 8 43 W o r k i n g at G i l e a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d genetic information, religion or veteran status. All Gilead employees receive regular Our wellness offerings include biometric screenings, wellness seminars, on-site performance and career development reviews. We monitor and review employee fitness centers or annual fitness reimbursement, and health assessment tools. Risk compensation on an annual basis to ensure that our pay practices are gender neutral. benefits include sick days, disability benefits and company-paid life, accidental death and dismemberment, and business travel accident insurance. Gilead’s salary ratio for In 2018, we expanded our U.S. health women to men in the and welfare benefits to include Applied United States is Behavioral Analysis therapy and fertility support for employees. Our financial benefits include: Our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) services include financial, legal, • Retirement savings with matching contributions, available in many countries pre-retirement, elder care and child care consultations, as well as clinical counseling. based on local market practice and regulations* And, now, a new online coaching tool provides our U.S. employees and their families with access to on-demand behavioral health support. • Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP) that enables eligible Gilead employees to become stockholders by purchasing Gilead stock at a 15% discount, consistent with Internal Revenue Service requirements Time Off We Believe * For detailed information about Gilead’s defined benefit plan obligations, visit the Gilead offers a competitive time-off program to help employees remain rested and In Our company’s Form 10-K on the Shareholder Center page of our website. balanced throughout the year. Time-off benefits include company-paid vacation days People and holidays, which vary from country to country based on compliance with local laws, regulations and common market practice. 3 Health and Welfare Benefits We also offer family-friendly leaves of absence such as parental and adoption leaves To demonstrate our commitment to the health and well-being of our employees and their to employees in many countries, including six weeks of Paid Parental Time Off (PPTO) families, we offer market-competitive wellness, extended healthcare and risk benefits in for employees in the United States. many countries. 44 201 8 201 8 45 W o r k i n g at G i l e a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d In 2018, more than 98% of our worldwide employees on parental leave returned to • Gilead also supports continued education with a discount on MBA Employees in work at the end of leave. programs through Golden Gate University. In 2018, 55 employees Southern California Number of employees entitled to parental leave in 2018* Male 5,353 Female 5,472 TOTAL 10,825 participated in the on-site MBA program in Foster City. Hold First Week Number of employees who took parental leave in 2018 Number of employees who returned to work after leave ended in 2018 184 183 333 328 517 511 of Service Number of employees retained 12 months after returning Giving Together to work following a period of parental leave in 2017 155 279 434 Gilead’s annual Week of Service brings Number of employees who took a parental leave in 2017 175 337 512 In 2018, Gilead launched Giving Together, together employees around the world to 2018 return to work rate 99.5% 98.5% 98.8% a program through which we match 1:1 make a difference in their communities. 2017 return to work rate 97.7% 98.5% 98.2% donations to eligible nonprofit organizations In October, the Kite team in Southern 2017 retention rate 85.6% 84% 84.6% of up to $2,000 per employee each year. California participated in its first Week *Employees not eligible for Bonding Leave may request a Personal Leave of Absence to spend time with their new child; therefore, all employees are technically eligible to take “Parental Leave.” In 2018, we donated to the California Fire of Service. Volunteers assembled care Foundation, the Wildfire Relief Fund in Los packages for children receiving cancer Angeles and the North Valley Community treatment in Los Angeles-area hospitals, 4 Professional and Personal Development Foundation in Chico, California, to help those decorated for Halloween parties at Boys & affected by the Northern and Southern Girls Clubs locations and contributed to a Gilead’s Learning and Development Program fosters a culture of continuous California fires. food drive for Westside Food Bank. learning designed to help employees develop cross-functional skills and tools to We Believe grow their careers and learn about our culture. For our employees and their families who “The Week of Service gave us the chance were evacuated in 2018 by the wildfires in to work together to provide a little hope In Our People • In 2018, Gilead employees completed 50,409 hours of California and Greece, Hurricane Michael in and smiles for people in need through small professional, management and leadership development training Florida, and the typhoons in Asia, we offered gestures that can have a positive ripple programs or an average of 4.7 hours per employee.* paid time off and financial assistance to help effect and also help create a bond with our cover the cost of hotel rooms, meals and local communities.” • Employees can receive reimbursement for tuition expenses incurred damaged personal belongings. while pursuing undergraduate, graduate or certificate courses at an Lindy Him, specialist, Cell Therapy II accredited college or university. Annual reimbursement maximums and eligibility may vary from country to country. * Online courses are assumed to be one hour. 46 201 8 201 8 47 W o r k i n g at G i l e a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d Volunteering in Our Communities In 2018, Gilead’s legal department spent approximately 300 pro-bono Gilead aims to positively impact the communities hours representing clients in a where we work and live, and to connect the variety of areas including domestic talents of employees with unmet needs in violence survivors, asylum for those communities. We encourage worldwide immigrant juveniles and veterans employees to engage in volunteer activities that seeking medical aid. benefit four core areas of focus: underserved communities, education, environment and health 75 awareness/outreach. In 2018, worldwide hours in domestic violence representation employees received an additional paid day off from work to volunteer with an organization of their choice. 200 hours in immigrant representation As part of Gilead’s second annual “Week of We Believe Service,” employees around the world gave 15 In Our back to local communities by providing meals, People maintenance, habitat restoration, care packages for members of the military and other assistance. In Foster City, employees spent more than hours in veteran 1,000 community service hours supporting the representation following six organizations: • Pacifica Beach Coalition • LifeMoves • Operation Care & Comfort 48 201 8 201 8 49 W o r k i n g at G i l e a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d • Boys & Girls Clubs of Oakland Working to demonstrate our commitment • • GLIDE Larkin Street Youth Services to inclusion requires us to: Our Commitment More than 200 of our employees in Southern California participated in the Week of • Encourage and support each other to the LGBTQ+ Service for the first time, volunteering with three nonprofit organizations supporting • Recognize and mitigate Community youth and families in the Los Angeles area. unconscious bias Honoring our diversity not only makes us a • Consider multiple more effective workforce, it helps us better pathways to success We Welcome and understand and serve patients around the 5 • Respect people of all world. It’s only natural that, having started backgrounds and experiences out developing treatments for diseases 10 Celebrate Diverse that disproportionately affect the LBGTQ+ • Seek diverse perspectives community, we are fiercely committed to to drive innovation supporting our LGBTQ+ employees today. Perspectives In 2018, we formed From advocating for transgender rights, to marching in Pride parades around the world, to hosting honest conversations As Gilead expands into new therapeutic areas and geographic regions, our business becomes increasingly complex. Building an inclusive and diverse workforce helps a diversity council, about inclusion and diversity, Gilead stands with our LGBTQ+ employees — and takes We us evolve along with our business and, ultimately, better serve our patients. By chaired by senior pride in the difference they make in our Believe In Our generating greater diversity of thought, we accelerate our innovation, amplify our productivity, and achieve our mission of improving patient care and meeting unmet management, to communities. People medical needs around the world. measure our ability “Our varied perspectives and experiences Diversity at Gilead means recognizing and accepting all the ways in which we differ. It to attract, develop and help drive innovation. All of us at Gilead are committed to promoting inclusion and includes visible differences — such as age, gender, ethnicity and physical appearance retain employees of diversity — it’s simply the right thing to do.” as well as underlying differences such as thinking styles, religion, nationality, veteran status, sexual orientation, sexual identity and education. Gilead added “inclusion” as diverse backgrounds. Daniel O'Day, Chairman and CEO a core value in 2016 to better help us build a community of accountability. 50 201 8 201 8 51 W o r k i n g at G i l e a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d The new diversity council will track our progress relative to the following improvement goals: Amplifying Our Gilead Asian Interest Network (GAIN) • Increasing the transparency of diversity data Employees’ Voices GAIN unites Asian employees and their allies to deepen cultural understanding across the company. • Implementing and tracking diversity action plans specific to different Listening to our employees is crucial to our organizations and regions continued success, especially as we continue to evolve. To obtain valuable insights from our Gilead Leadership Organization of Black • Building a more inclusive culture by integrating and expanding employees, we periodically issue workplace Employees (GLOBE) unconscious bias trainings globally, and launching multicultural tools surveys covering a multitude of topics including GLOBE works to cultivate leadership among people of to improve team effectiveness across borders our core values, impact, innovation, career African descent, advancing opportunities for all people to development, inclusion, engagement, work be valued. environment, collaboration and efficiency. Creating Communities at Gilead Women at Gilead Our global network of Women In 2018, 92% of our at Gilead boosts how we recruit, develop and support Many of our employees participate in Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). These our female employees — so groups provide opportunities for leadership development, community involvement, worldwide employees they can thrive now and into the future. networking, mentoring, skills advancement, participating in the recruitment of diverse candidates and other ways for Gilead employees to make a difference beyond their provided valuable The LGBTQ+ Alliance usual work responsibilities. feedback that is helping The LGBTQ+ Alliance is all about keeping Gilead a place shape our business where gender diversity is With more than 6,000 members and 20 chapters around the world in 2018, Gilead’s celebrated, community is prioritized and all people feel ERGs are helping us scale our inclusion and diversity initiatives, while creating a sense of belonging for all employees. strategy moving forward. empowered. We Believe Gileados Gileados members embrace In Our In 2018, we received a top score of 100% on the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) 2018 and espouse an appreciation People Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national benchmarking tool on corporate policies for the multifaceted Latino culture at Gilead, with the goal and practices related to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBTQ) employees. of enhancing the recruitment and retention of diverse talent. In recognition of our diversity and inclusion efforts, Forbes named Gilead one of Gilead Veterans Engagement 2019’s Best Employers for Diversity. Team (GVET) GVET plays an important role in how we recognize, appreciate and support veterans, active duty military and their families. 52 201 8 201 8 53 W o r k i n g at G i l e a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d Results from the 2018 survey reflected positive feedback in several categories including core values, impact, innovation and career development. At the same time, our employees identified opportunities for improving our collaboration, operational efficiency, and inclusion and diversity initiatives. In response to this feedback, we formed action teams in late 2018 to evaluate opportunities and take action. In the spirit of creating a community of accountability, our action teams will meet quarterly to report on our progress with respect to these and other improvement opportunities in 2019. Improvement Opportunity 2018 ACTION We implemented an organizational network analysis (ONA) to map connections between employees to Collaboration understand and improve cross-functional and cross-locational collaboration. We unveiled new work schedule options to increase Efficiency flexibility around when and where employees work. We formed a Diversity Council and created We Inclusion and Diversity organizational diversity action plans to enhance Believe our diverse hiring and development programs. In Our People 54 201 8 201 8 55 W o r k i n g at G i l e a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d Our Global Workforce United States Gender, Age and Race/Ethnicity Distribution* Gilead’s worldwide staff has grown to more than 11,000 people, but we still strive to make our workforce a close community where everyone can see the tangible results of their contributions, where every individual matters and where everyone has a chance to enhance their skills through ongoing development. Our People by the Numbers Our people are more than just numbers to us. Gilead continually looks for opportunities to diversify our workforce, and data is an important part of that process. Each year, we review total new hires, voluntary turnovers, gender, race, ethnicity and other metrics. The following is a snapshot of some of Gilead’s 2018 workforce demographic data. GENDER RACE/ETHNICITY We Worldwide New Hires and Voluntary Turnovers Black or Believe African Hispanic 2017 2018 EEO-1 Category* Male Female White American or Latino Asian Other** In Our People New Hires* 1,155 1,997 Executives*** 69% 31% 71% 7% 1% 19% 2% New Hire Rate 12.7% 19.2% First-/Mid-Level Managers 51% 49% 49% 5% 7% 36% 3% Voluntary Turnovers 781 937 Professionals 47% 53% 40% 5% 14% 37% 4% Voluntary Turnover Rate 8.5% 9% Total Gilead U.S. Population 49% 51% 44% 5% 11% 37% 4% *New hire data includes individuals that were hired externally. Existing employees that changed positions internally are not included in this calculation. 56 201 8 201 8 57 W o r k i n g at G i l e a d Wo r k i n g at G i l e a d Building a Culture of Workplace Safety Gilead believes that a safe and secure workplace inspires innovation while promoting health, wellness and productivity. Our workplace safety, training and security program is designed to prevent occupational injuries and illnesses, and promote a culture of reporting. Safety measures include tailored training sessions, annual refresher courses, and detailed assessment of incidents and near-misses worldwide. In 2018, the most frequent work-related injuries were from musculoskeletal extremity, back and neck strains, which were caused by material handling, ergonomic, slip, fall and motor vehicle hazards. Ergonomics and a trip hazard led to two high-consequence injuries where the individuals were unable to recover fully within six months. Executive management meets quarterly to review the environmental and safety performance across all of our sites, while joint management-line health and safety committees review site-level performance. Teams complete in-depth reviews at individual sites where incidents occur to identify the causes and determine how to keep these and similar events from happening in the future. Gilead Workforce Data We Believe FTE and Non-FTE Employees In Our People Number of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0.0 Rate* of fatalities as a result of work-related injury 0.0 Number** of high-consequence work-related injuries 2.0 Rate* of high-consequence work-related injuries 0.02 Total number of recordable work-related injuries 74.0 Rate* of recordable work-related injuries 0.65 *Rates are calculated based on 22,648,146 hours worked by all FTE and non-FTE (e.g., temporary) workers managed directly by Gilead, which is consistent with U.S.-OSHA record keeping requirements and how data is reported to U.S. authorities and internally. **The number of high-consequence work-related injuries is based on lost time/days away and restricted workday cases reported to OSHA. 58 201 8 201 8 59 Communit y I mpac t Communit y I mpac t We Believe No One Can Do It Alone 60 201 8 201 8 61 C oFm ema tuunri et yS Itm oprayc t Communit y I mpac t Aging With HIV: How We're Managing New Challenges Over the years, the HIV community has pushed boundaries, broken down barriers and campaigned for positive change. But as the first generation of people with HIV enters later life, new and unprecedented challenges are emerging, while many historic challenges remain. Launched in 2018 in the UK, Gilead’s HIV Age Positively aims to address the greatest challenges of aging with HIV — taking action for today and To learn more about Gilead We for tomorrow. Believe HIV Age Positively, visit: No One Can Do It HIV Age Positively embraces the ethos of thinking and doing things Alone differently. To provide innovative ideas and fresh perspectives, we work G I LE A DG I V I N G .CO.U K with Future Thinkers — individuals known for groundbreaking work inside and outside the HIV space. Through the HIV Age Positively initiative, Gilead provides funding for projects inspired by thinking and doing things differently and that focus on one or more of the HIV Age Positively key focused areas: community action, personal health, equality and health services. 62 201 8 201 8 63 Communit y I mpac t Communit y I mpac t 3 Providing Access to 4 10 Our Medicines 17 To be effective at treating, preventing or curing disease, medicines must be available to the patients who need them. Through our Access to Medicines programs, Gilead is expanding access to treatment by helping patients overcome barriers to get the medicines they need. Because obstacles to care can occur in both resource-rich countries and in the developing world alike, Gilead collaborates with governments, nongovernmental organizations, healthcare providers, payers and other partners around the world to We Believe increase access to treatment. No One Can Do It Alone 64 201 8 201 8 65 Communit y I mpac t Communit y I mpac t Access to Our Medicines • Patient Assistance Programs. Eligible patients without insurance can in the United States apply to our Patient Assistance Program to receive free treatment, directly from Gilead. The U.S. healthcare landscape is complex and can be difficult to navigate. To ease the burden this can place on patients and their caregivers, Gilead’s patient assistance Expanded Access Program programs help provide access to medicines, copay assistance and counseling across our therapeutic areas and in accordance with all applicable laws. For some people with serious or life-threatening conditions — who aren’t eligible for clinical trials and for whom there are no therapeutic options available to meet their In addition to discounting programs aimed at addressing affordability challenges needs — Gilead’s Expanded Access Program offers access to our investigational for patients, Gilead is pursuing creative solutions to these challenges. For instance, medicines. The program varies regionally as a result of the unique regulatory mechin 2018, Gilead authorized the launch of generic versions of Epclusa and Harvoni in anisms worldwide. Since investigational medicines have not yet received regulatory the United States starting in January 2019 through our separate subsidiary, Asegua approval, their potential risks and benefits are not yet established. Patients and their Therapeutics LLC. The authorized generics will allow for greater access for patients. physicians must carefully consider all possible benefits and risks before seeking access through compassionate use. Gilead Patient Support Programs Rapid Access to Our Medications Program • Patient Counseling. Our case managers help patients navigate insurance coverage and access to treatment. Assistance includes finding alternative coverage and copay Gilead also recognizes that extreme weather events can threaten health systems support when appropriate. and interrupt access to care. In an effort to prevent interruptions to patients’ treatWe Believe ment with Gilead medicines in the continental United States and territories, we have • Assistance for Individuals Living With HIV. Gilead works with state implemented emergency disaster procedures through our Patient Support Programs. No One Can Do It AIDS Drug Assistance Programs to provide lower pricing for our HIV medicines. Gilead works with healthcare providers and pharmacies to help provide prescribed Alone Approximately half of all individuals taking Gilead HIV medicines in the United States Gilead medications to patients in need. Some individuals may be eligible to obtain a receive them through federal and state programs at substantially discounted prices. 30-day replacement supply of their Gilead medications at no cost. Gilead’s Truvada for PrEP Medication Assistance Program helps provide access to Truvada for PrEP for eligible individuals in the United States without insurance. Gilead also offers a copay assistance program to help eligible people with insurance offset any out-of-pocket costs. The program provides consistent access for both prevention and treatment indications. 66 201 8 201 8 67 Communit y I mpac t Communit y I mpac t • Tiered pricing, with discounts on medicines based on disease burden and national per-capita income • Responsible generic licensing of our products to enable high-quality, low-cost versions of our HIV and viral hepatitis medicines in lowand middle-income countries • Advocacy for public health initiatives and policies that maximize patient reach and prevent new infections • Strengthening health systems to bolster diagnostic, treatment and surveillance capacity • Collaborative research that targets innovative therapies, informs drug delivery and helps countries map disease burdens For more information about these and other initiatives to improve global access to lifesaving medicines and public health education, refer to our 2018 Impact Report for emerging markets. Access to Our Medicines in the Developing World We For more than 15 years, Gilead has carried out pioneering programs and Giving Back to Our Communities Believe partnerships that provide access to our medicines in lowand middle-income No One Can Do It countries. During that time, we have learned there is no one-size-fits-all solution to Alone treatment access challenges. That’s why we work with public health officials, community advocates, researchers, At Gilead, we know that we alone cannot solve the challenges that patients and doctors and patients to understand barriers and opportunities, with a focus on communities face in accessing the best possible care. Gilead’s corporate giving communities impacted by HIV, viral hepatitis and visceral leishmaniasis. We apply a programs fund projects that support underserved communities that systematically variety of approaches to increase disease awareness, engage partners strategically experience social or economic obstacles to health. We build relationships with patient and deliver medicines efficiently. These include: advocates, nonprofits and healthcare professionals around the world who work tirelessly in local communities to improve people’s lives day after day. 68 201 8 201 8 69 Communit y I mpac t Communit y I mpac t In 2018, Gilead provided almost $400 million in cash donations to reduce health disparities, eliminate the barriers to healthcare encountered by underserved populations, advance education among healthcare professionals and support the local communities TM in which we operate. We also made donations to support relief efforts for communities recovering from wildfires in California, hurricane damage in the Eastern United States, flooding in India and an outbreak of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of Congo. helps community-based organizations reduce HIV-related health Gilead COMPASS Initiative™ disparities, build awareness, advance education and reduce stigma. The South is home to one-third of the U.S. population but saw 52% of new HIV infections and 49% of deaths from HIV in the country in 2017. Four of the five states with the highest rates of new HIV diagnoses in 2016 were in the South. To bring In 2018, COMPASS Coordinating Centers solutions to this hardest-hit region, Gilead launched the COMPASS (COMmitment to 2.9M Partnership in Addressing HIV/AIDS in Southern States) Initiative in December 2017. $ delivered $2.9 million in grants to support COMPASS is managed by three Coordinating Centers, which draw on their long local organizations and evidence-based history of local engagement to more effectively understand and develop programs solutions to meet the needs of people living that meet the unique needs of Southern communities: with and impacted by HIV/AIDS. 8,313 • The Rollins School of Public Health at Emory University oversees We programs for capacity building and shared knowledge. Believe No One Can Do It • The University of Houston Graduate College of Social Work (GCSW) promoted visibility of the program Alone oversees programs that focus on well-being, mental health and to 8,313 advocates at six conferences trauma-informed care. throughout the region. 18 • The Southern AIDS Coalition (SAC) oversees awareness, education and anti-stigma campaigns. hosted 18 shared learning opportunities designed to foster collaboration through best practices and connection with subject-matter experts. 70 201 8 201 8 71 Communit y I mpac t Communit y I mpac t Partnerships to Advance Education and Improve Cancer Care In 2018, Gilead launched Lift™, an initiative to provide project grants to organizations focused on cell therapy, a cutting-edge immunotherapy that modifies a patient’s immune cells to target cancer cells. Our Lift grantees include: • American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation • Arm Foundation for Regenerative Medicine Education and Research • Be The Match Foundation • Cancer Support Community We • Lazarex Cancer Foundation Believe No One • Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Can Do It Alone • Lymphoma Research Foundation Lift grants will be used for projects that increase awareness and education, improve the experience of patients, their families and caregivers, and increase access to clinical trials. 72 201 8 201 8 73 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment We Believe Our Business Is Sustainable 74 201 8 201 8 75 P r a c tFi ec ae tsu&r eE n Svto i rroyn m e n t Practices & Environment Caring for the Environment James O’Regan is on a mission: to positively impact his community For more about how by reducing Gilead’s footprint in it. As the sustainability manager James and the Cork team are at our manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland, he’s doing just that. keeping things green, visit: We Last year, Cork marked its sixth consecutive year as a zero-waste Believe G I LE A D.CO M/ Y I R20 1 8 facility, running on 100% renewable energy. Our Business Is Sustainable 76 201 8 201 8 77 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment 5 A Smarter, Green Buildings at Gilead 12 Smaller Footprint Our buildings house the laboratories where we develop the medicines that help millions of people around the world live healthier lives. Embracing core sustainability Gilead is committed to the socially and environmentally responsible and green building practices, such as conserving natural resources, eliminating production of medicines to help people living with some of the world’s unnecessary waste and responsibly sourcing materials, has enabled us to better deliver high-performance working environments that operate efficiently and promote most serious illnesses. the health and productivity of our employees. Through the years, we have developed a worldwide sustainability strategy built on Partnering with building designers, engineers and contractors who share our our initiatives to reduce the impact associated with our supply chain, the manufacturcommitment to sustainability adds value through all phases of the development ing and distribution of our products, and the design, construction and operations of process. It also streamlines our efforts to align with local green building standards our worldwide corporate facilities. including Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design® (LEED®) and Building Over the past 14 years, Gilead’s real estate portfolio has grown to over 6.2 million Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method® (BREEAM®). square feet. We use responsible growth strategies to minimize our environmental In 2018, Gilead began taking steps toward LEED Silver certification for a new site impact and improve our operational efficiency while pursuing our vision to advance in Frederick, Maryland, and BREEAM certification for a new site in Hoofddorp, therapies for life-threatening diseases worldwide. Netherlands. These sites will expand Gilead’s portfolio of facilities that either are We Believe Our international facilities master plan is a valuable resource for thoughtfully managpursuing or have achieved green building recognitions. Our ing our infrastructure and real estate decisions. Business Is Sustainable At Gilead, we are doing our part to transition to a low-carbon future and mitigate the effects of climate change. In line with the Paris Agreement’s central aim of keeping the global temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius this century, we have established a goal to reduce our global Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2025, compared with a 2016 baseline. 78 201 8 201 8 79 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment 2018 Gilead Site Highlights Foster City, California, United States Responsible Delivery Systems At the start of 2018, 100% of the electricity supplied to our worldwide Gilead’s Pharmaceutical Development and Manufacturing (PDM) team is responsible headquarters was sourced from renewable energy. for ensuring that our therapies are available when and where patients need them. Renewable energy procurement efforts at Foster City and Cork, Ireland, demonstrated a 16% reduction of Scope 1 and 2 emissions — achieving over half of our 2025 GHG We use a combination of company-owned facilities and an expanding network of reduction goal. Procurement efforts were expanded at Foster City in 2018. international partners to manufacture, package and distribute our products. Edmonton, Alberta, Canada / ISO 14001: 2015 To meet the growing demand for innovative medicines in areas of unmet need, we Recovering high-purity wastewater from laboratories to cool vacuum pumps on-site will save 7.884 million liters of freshwater per year. constantly are working to optimize and diversify manufacturing capabilities. In 2001, when Viread™ (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate or TDF) was launched, Gilead produced Stockley Park, England about 111,000 bottles at one manufacturing site — the equivalent of a year’s supply Stockley Park eliminated the use of plastic water bottles from the site, avoiding for 9,000 patients. In 2018, Gilead produced 18 million bottles of solid-dose tablets, waste from over 320,000 single-use plastic bottles per year. capsules and pediatric formulations, and 8.6 million sterile vials were manufactured at more than a dozen partner sites worldwide. Driven by growth and activity at newly built facilities, our total energy consumption increased 9% from our 2016 baseline. However, over that same time, our investments in As we increase manufacturing production, we are committed to doing so in a socially procuring low-carbon sources of energy reduced our worldwide Scope 1 and 2 (marketand environmentally responsible manner. Gilead’s suppliers for active pharmaceutical based) greenhouse gas emissions by 16%. Gilead is actively looking for opportunities to ingredients (APIs) and drug products must observe good manufacturing practice increase the proportion of our energy derived from renewable sources. (GMP) regulations as required by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and other relevant health authorities worldwide. GMP covers all aspects of production Environmental Performance Summary including manufacturing procedures, testing methods, maintenance of premises and We Units 2017 2016 equipment, training, personal hygiene of staff, and appropriate documentation. Believe Our Total area of facilities worldwide under operational control Million sq. ft. 5.99* 4.75 Business Is To maintain the highest levels of quality, our products are packaged and distributed Sustainable ENERGY USE in accordance with industry regulations and standards. We regularly assess Total energy consumption MWh 365,842 337,003 our operations to identify opportunities to enhance these processes without Renewable energy purchased MWh 37,430 0 compromising quality. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Scope 1 MT CO2e 46,363 44,472 At the end of 2018, Gilead consolidated product shipments from our sites in San Scope 2 (Market-based) MT CO2e 23,132 38,295 Dimas and La Verne, California, to our distribution centers in the Midwest and East * This is a restatement of the square footage value reported on pg. 47 of the 2017 Year in Review. Coast, reducing our annual ground freight mileage by 59%. Refer to disclosure 102-48 in the GRI Content Index for additional details. 80 201 8 201 8 81 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment In 2018, Gilead began utilizing a new distribution site in Ohio. The strategic location Pharmaceuticals in the Environment of this facility substantially reduces the shipping distances of our products packaged at manufacturing partner sites in the Midwest and eastern United States and provides Pharmaceuticals in the environment (PiE) can have serious health consequences for additional product storage capacity, helping to mitigate potential supply-chain people and wildlife. Pharmaceuticals typically reach the environment through the disruption risks. excretions of treated patients, improper disposal of medications and releases from production facilities into local water sources. Better Yields With Green Chemistry Gilead's manufacturing facilities maintain high operational standards and do not release active pharmaceutical ingredients into the environment. We adhere to strong internal policies and operate in compliance with regulatory requirements for wastewater discharge Gilead uses green and sustainable chemistry practices to reduce the environmental and solid waste disposal. impacts of our manufacturing processes. Our process chemists develop and implement new green chemistry protocols such as innovative use of enzymatic Gilead is a member of the Pharmaceutical Product Stewardship Work Group (PPSWG), a catalysis, flow chemistry and use of greener solvents in API synthesis. Green membership association for drug manufacturers formed to address the complex issues chemistry practices have allowed us to: associated with disposal of unused and unwanted pharmaceutical products. PPSWG provides members with a platform to organize and present science-based data about • Improve the potency of APIs and significantly reduce chemical waste from the safe pharmaceutical disposal practices and coordinates the industry’s efforts to raise production of Biktarvy, a single tablet regimen launched in 2018 for the treatment awareness about appropriate disposal methods. PPSWG also helps manufacturers of HIV understand and comply with enacted drug take-back and stewardship laws and ordinances nationwide. • Significantly reduce the process mass intensity (PMI) of two investigational compounds currently in development Through PPSWG, Gilead supports consumer-focused drug take-back and stewardship We Believe efforts by MED-Project, which performs medication education and disposal work in Our PMI is a green chemistry metric used to quantify the efficiency of a process. PMI jurisdictions across the country. In 2018, Gilead contributed $19,894 to support MEDBusiness Is Sustainable represents the mass of all process inputs such as substrates, reagents, solvents Project take-back efforts. As of December 2018, MED-Project serviced approximately and water, divided by the mass of the isolated product. The PMI of an entire API 614 active medication disposal kiosks that collected more than 110 metric tons of process or route can be analyzed to evaluate the contribution of each input category unwanted medications. MED-Project received over 2,400 unwanted medical mailers from (substrates, reagents, solvents, water). This analysis is used to identify opportunities distribution programs in California and Washington and held in-person drug take-back to improve our API manufacturing processes. events in San Francisco and Alameda County, California, that collected more than 1.3 metric tons of unwanted medications. 82 201 8 201 8 83 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment In 2018, Gilead joined the American the use of child labor; unfair treatment, wages and benefits, and working hours; By improving drug potency Chemical Society Green Chemistry forced labor; human trafficking; and discrimination based on race, color, gender, and using green chemistry Institute Pharmaceutical Roundtable religion, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression. We also support techniques, we reduced the (ACS GCIPR). As a member, Gilead full compliance with all applicable legislation including the United Kingdom Modern chemical waste associated is involved in the development of Anti-Slavery Act. with the API manufacturing of tools and educational resources to Biktarvy by 74% per patient per facilitate global collaboration and year compared with Stribild, influence the pharmaceutical industry Responsible Sourcing Program Gilead’s previous generation research agenda. Gilead’s responsible sourcing program builds relationships with suppliers that meet of HIV fixed-dose combination our criteria for inclusion and diversity, health and safety, human and labor rights, antitablet containing four corruption, environmental performance, and other supplier management considerations. drug substances. Working With A single 275 mg tablet of Biktarvy has Suppliers That Three Pillars of Responsible Sourcing Share Our the same API potency as an 800 mg tablet of Stribild but eliminates 11.7 Gilead suppliers must align with our core values and meet financial and performance kilograms of chemical production waste per patient each year. Values criteria in order to be qualified for business with Gilead To ensure we are consistently providing the highest quality therapies, Gilead HIV Single Tablet Regimens we partner with suppliers that share We Believe Annual Chemical Waste Produced similar principles in responsible Our (kg/patient/year) sourcing, supplier inclusion, risk Business Is Sustainable management, sustainability, auditing, Risk Mitigation Sustainability Stribild 15.8 green chemistry, manufacturing and Supplier Inclusion & Performance GHG emissions, distribution. Across our supply chain, Inclusion of small and/or ESG risk, financial risk, environmental impact, diverse suppliers geographic risk, supplier code green procurement we vehemently oppose and condemn Biktarvy 4.1 84 201 8 201 8 85 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment ‾‾ Pursuing inclusive procurement Supplier Inclusion ‾‾ Sharing best practices • Western Regional Minority Supplier Development Council. A group that Our vision is to become a biopharmaceutical supports the growth and welfare of minority communities by championing the industry leader for supplier inclusiveness. use of minority-owned businesses in Northern California, Nevada and Hawaii. Inclusion and diversity fuel innovation within Gilead, and also help us forge stronger, more productive supply-chain partnerships. Our vision is to become a biopharmaceutical industry Risk Management and Performance leader for supplier inclusion. We are committed to creating and fostering an inclusive and Gilead is a long-standing member of the Drug Insurance Group (DIG), a high-performing supply base where we embrace and leverage the unique talents of small consortium of global companies representing the pharmaceutical, biotech, businesses and/or businesses owned by women, minorities, LGBTQ individuals, veterans, diagnostics and medical device industries to exchange information and ideas to and service-disabled veterans. promote risk and insurance management. In 2018, we established the following inclusion targets: In 2018, Gilead launched a three-year responsible-sourcing strategic plan to enhance our supplier risk management and performance assessment, reporting, • Spend $300 million with small businesses auditing and procurement integration efforts. • Establish supplier inclusion champions in select business functions • Further integrate supplier inclusion into our procurement processes and procedures Initial Assessment Supplier Reporting Expand & Audit System Integration We Initial assessment Implement Expand Responsible sourcing Believe To help us build capacity and grow relationships with inclusive suppliers in 2018, we of suppliers self-assessment self-assessment fully integrated, Our partnered with the following organizations: through supplier tool and send to top and audit including buy-desk/ code and PSCI 80% + “secondary critical suppliers supplier onboarding Business Is critical” suppliers and SRM Sustainable • Diversity Alliance for Science. An alliance that identifies small and/or diverse businesses with which Gilead and its industry peers can partner. Integral to this plan is our Supplier Code of Conduct, which establishes minimum requirements for supplier diversity, labor practices, human rights, environmental • Supplier Diversity Pharmaceutical Forum. A forum where members are dedicated to: health and safety, environmental impact, and management systems. We aim ‾‾ Driving business results through innovation, agility and performance to have 90% of our suppliers (by annual spend) agree to our Supplier Code of Conduct by 2020. ‾‾ Mentoring and developing small and diverse suppliers 86 201 8 201 8 87 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment By the end of 2018, 400 suppliers representing We continually monitor our supply chain for adequate capacity, diversification, potential risks, and adherence to Gilead policies and governing regulations such as close to $2 billion in annual spend agreed to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.S. Trafficking Victims Protection Act our Supplier Code of Conduct. (TVPA), and other applicable labor and environmental regulatory policies. Refer to the Ethics and Code of Conduct section of our website for more information Supplier Sustainability about how we evaluate and address the risk of ethical violations for all countries To help improve the sustainability performance of our supply-chain partners, we involved in our supply chain. joined the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) in 2018. Our goal is to have If we encounter actual or potential violations of our company policies or governing our preferred suppliers align with PSCI guidelines and have sustainability targets in regulations, we recommend corrective action and flag the supplier for follow-up place and regularly reviewed by 2021. We plan to initially work with select suppliers evaluations. Certain violations, such as the use of forced labor, human trafficking or to establish greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction targets, and we plan to expand this environmental negligence, would lead Gilead to terminate our agreement with the process to include a larger share of our suppliers in the future. supplying organization and remove it from our supply chain. Auditing Procedures Gilead’s Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S) auditing program for drug Safety, Ethics and Transparency substances has conducted more than 100 on-site audits or EH&S visits to 75 unique Gilead adheres to strict product safety, labeling, marketing, data security and antisuppliers since the program was established in 2015. counterfeiting guidelines. All of our products undergo rigorous development, testing We These site visits and audits determine the extent to which chemical raw materials and clinical trials, and we use labeling and marketing practices pursuant to governing Believe manufacturers and suppliers of finished APIs meet Gilead’s EH&S standards for policies and regulations. Gilead did not receive any official warnings, fines or Our Business Is practices, including capture of volatile organic compounds, chemical solid waste penalties in 2018 related to our marketing or labeling practices. Sustainable disposal, solvent recycling, and compliance with local and international standards. To protect personal data, we use a combination of in-house technology and thirdOur assessment, risk mitigation and auditing procedures are continually party security services and systems to comply with data protection regulations such evolving to ensure that our products are consistently produced and controlled as the European Union General Data Protection Directive. There were no substantiated according to quality standards such as GMP. We work closely with our suppliers complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data in 2018. to identify practical improvement areas and share best practices for reducing or Our anti-counterfeiting team consists of brand protection, legal, security, supply-chain, eliminating risks. quality and packaging professionals who protect patient safety by using measures to help detect, stop, deter and report illicit sales of counterfeit or diverted medicines. 88 201 8 201 8 89 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment Greenhouse Gas Prevention 3 Sustainability: Each year, we measure our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions resulting from our business 13 Climate Change, activities worldwide and the Scope 3 emissions associated with our business travel. For this report, Gilead’s greenhouse gas reporting boundary includes all sites for which Gilead maintained operational control between Jan. 1, 2017, and Dec. 31, the Environment 2017. Bureau Veritas North America Inc. completed limited assurance using the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14064-3 standard for greenhouse gas assertions. and Global Health Gilead will publish a verified 2018 worldwide greenhouse gas inventory in 2019 when data are available. Climate change, intensified by greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, threatens the GHG Reduction Initiatives health of populations and environments worldwide. Often, the populations most impacted by the effects of climate change are the same underserved communities Our baseline year for measuring GHG reductions is 2016, the first year we tracked where Gilead provides medical care for life-threatening medical conditions such as Scope 1 and 2 emissions for all sites under our operational control. HIV, viral hepatitis and visceral leishmaniasis. The impact of climate change on underserved and at-risk populations has important In 2018, Gilead established a target to reduce We Believe implications for global health. These include increased transmission of serious absolute Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) GHG Our diseases, compounding health risks for the young and elderly, and greater danger for those already immunocompromised. As global citizens providing care, Gilead emissions by 25% by 2025 compared with our 2016 baseline. Business Is Sustainable stands by our patients, at-risk populations and the environment through our ambitious GHG strategy. To meet this goal, which is in line with the Paris Agreement's central aim of keeping the global temperature rise below 2 degrees Celsius this century, we developed a multiyear plan that includes procuring renewable energy for high-impact locations and applying energy efficiency technologies and measures to improve the performance of our facilities. 90 201 8 201 8 91 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment In 2017, Gilead reduced absolute Scope 1 and 2 (market-based) GHG emissions by Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions From Gilead Worldwide Operations 13,272 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (MT CO2e), which is equivalent to a 16% reduction from our 2016 baseline emissions. Reporting Units: MT CO2e 2017 2016 Scope 1 46,363 44,472 Scope 2 (Market-based) 23,132 38,295 Scope 2 (Location-based) 36,018 39,353 Reporting Units: MT CO2e 2017 2016 Scope 3 (Business air travel) 25,094 21,600 Baseline 2017 2018 2019 2025 Goal Scope 1 46,363 44,472 Scope 2 (Market-based) 23,132 38,295 0.0% Scope 2 (Location-based) 36,018 39,353 2.8% 5.6% Reporting Scope 3 (Business CO2e Units: kg air per square foot travel) 2017 25,094 2016 21,600 8.3% Scope 1 7.75 9.36 16.0% GHG Emissions Intensity Scope 2 (Market-based) 3.86 8.06 25.0% Scope 2 (Location-based) 6.02 8.28 Reporting Units: kg CO2e per square foot 2017 2016 Scope 1 7.75 9.36 Current Year Reduction Target Pace Scope 2 (Market-based) 3.86 8.06 We Scope 2 (Location-based) 6.02 8.28 Believe Our Business Is Sustainable 92 201 8 201 8 93 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment Alternative Transportation 7 Energy Use Gilead proactively supports our employees in finding alternative, low-impact means Gilead’s energy management strategy supports lean, effective and high-quality of transportation through a variety of programs and initiatives including: therapeutic development through optimized processes and facility operations. In • Providing local and regional commuter bus services to and from campus 2017 and 2018, we realized major reductions in our energy footprint through investing in renewable energy, implementing energy-efficiency measures and adopting • Supporting carpool programs through subsidies and other incentives advanced energy processes. • Locating offices near public transit • Installing electric vehicle charging stations At the start of 2018, we procured 100% renewable electricity for our headquarters campus in Foster City, California. This achievement represents a major milestone • Encouraging bicycle transportation through installation of showers toward meeting our 2025 greenhouse gas emission reduction goal. Foster City joins within facilities and partnering with bicycle service providers our other campuses, such as our Cork, Ireland, and Cambridge, UK, sites, in procuring and installing green energy. 2018 Foster City Transportation Metrics Worldwide Energy Consumption Each year, we track total energy use from nonrenewable sources and renewable energy generated from on-site systems and purchased from local utilities. We also We Believe track our energy use intensity to evaluate efficiency as our building portfolio grows. 415 1,831 Our Business Is Compared with our 2016 baseline year, our total energy use increased by 9% due to Sustainable the organic growth of the organization, including activity at newly built sites. commuters transported by Gilead’s metric tons of CO2e emissions employee bus per day reduced from employee vehicles through commuter bus program 94 201 8 201 8 95 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment 2017 Worldwide Energy Consumption 6 Better Water Management Energy Energy Use Consumption Intensity Beginning in 2018, the United Nations called for an International Decade for Action Energy Source (MWh) (kWh/sq.ft) on Water for Sustainable Development. This call to action identifies access to clean Total energy consumption from renewable sources 37,430 6.3 drinking water, sanitation and hygiene as critical societal needs. With prolonged Total energy consumption from nonrenewable sources 328,412 54.9 droughts in California and many other regions around the world where Gilead has Total combined energy consumption 365,842 61.1 operations, we have increased our focus on water conservation. Energy Efficiency In December 2018, Gilead’s Foster City campus Building energy efficiency is a key driver to reducing our worldwide energy completed a comprehensive upgrade to smart consumption. Our facilities personnel continuously monitor building energy use to identify trends and pinpoint opportunities for energy conservation. weather-based irrigation controllers. Our commitment to renewable energy strongly supports our mission To gain a better understanding of our worldwide impact on water supplies, we to reduce our worldwide environmental footprint: expanded our water use reporting boundary from our headquarters campus in Foster City, California, to include 24 sites for which we have operational control and/or pay • In 2018, Gilead implemented 99 energy efficiency projects worldwide, for water directly. In 2017, Gilead consumed 466 ML of water from municipal sources. achieving an estimated total energy savings of 438 MWh. We Believe • 100% of the electricity supplied to Gilead’s facilities located in Foster City, California, and Cork, Ireland, was sourced from renewable energy. 2017 Worldwide Water Consumption Our Business Is Sustainable Water Source Megaliters • Our on-site rooftop solar photovoltaic system at Cambridge is capable of generating more than 200 kWh of renewable energy per day. Indoor use 386.0 Irrigation 80.0 Fire/life safety 0.1 Total water consumption 466.1 96 201 8 201 8 97 Practices & Environment Practices & Environment Increased Recycling Efforts 2017 Worldwide Waste Disposal We are committed to reducing waste generated from manufacturing our products, Nonhazardous Waste Disposal Metric Tons constructing new buildings and operating our existing facilities worldwide. To reduce Landfill 52,846 impact on local landfills, we continuously monitor our operations to identify opportunities Organics 902 to reduce, reuse and recycle waste. From 2017 to 2018, we reduced our total waste sent to Recyclables 41,350 landfills by 6% at our Foster City headquarters. Incineration 27 Other 59 In late 2017, we expanded our waste reporting boundary from our Foster City campus to Total 95,184 include 23 worldwide sites for which we have operational control and/or pay for waste disposal directly. In 2017, we generated 95,184 metric tons of nonhazardous waste and 5,046 metric tons of hazardous waste; this will serve as our baseline year for future Hazardous Waste Disposal Metric Tons comparisons. Incineration 770 All hazardous and nonhazardous waste streams are picked up from our facilities and Energy recovery 1,917 transported to local processing facilities by third-party vendors that must comply with E-waste recyclables 19 local regulations. On-site storage 4 Neutralization 2 Solvent recovery 4 Our Collective Impact Metal recovery 1 Recovery for reuse 1 We Waste reduction and recycling requires a team effort at Gilead. With the support of Deep-well injection 2,328 Believe our worldwide staff, we diverted 42,338 metric tons of nonhazardous waste from Landfill 0 Our Business Is local landfills in 2017. Total 5,046 Sustainable In September 2018, Gilead Foster City hosted a Shred and E-Waste event, collecting more than 3.4 metric tons of paper and electronic waste. We recycled 98% of the construction waste from the new pilot plant in Foster City, diverting more than 1,360 metric tons of debris from local landfills. 98 201 8 201 8 99 Appendix Appendix Appendix Our Governing About Gilead Principles As a company driven by science and dedicated to improving patient care and quality of life, Gilead adheres to the highest legal and ethical standards of business conduct Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a leading biopharmaceutical company that discovers, to protect patient safety, the company and its employees. develops and commercializes innovative medicines in areas of unmet medical need. We strive to transform the promise of science and technology into therapies that have Gilead’s board of directors serves stockholders by overseeing the management the power to cure diseases or revolutionize the standard of care. Gilead’s portfolio of our business. The board, our leadership team and all employees at Gilead are of products and pipeline of investigational drugs include treatments for HIV, liver responsible for upholding the corporate values of integrity, inclusion, teamwork, diseases, cancer, and inflammatory and respiratory diseases. excellence and accountability. In addition, every Gilead employee must comply with our Code of Ethics and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, as well as other Headquartered in Foster City, California, Gilead employed 10,825 full-time employees business conduct and corporate policies. and engaged 1,108 temporary/agency* workers in more than 35 countries on six continents in 2018. Our board has four committees: 1) Audit Committee, 2) Compensation Committee, 3) Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and 4) Scientific Committee. Our Board Guidelines and Committee Charters can be found on the Investors page of our website. Listing rules require that a majority of the members of a public company’s board of directors qualify as “independent.” All our committees are composed of *Individuals who are employed or engaged as an agency worker by a third-party temporary agency, and compensated independent board members. As of March 1, 2019 (upon Daniel O’Day’s appointment by the same, to perform work for Gilead for a pre-defined timeframe. and John Martin’s resignation), eight out of nine members were independent. 100 201 8 201 8 101 Appendix Appendix The Code We Stand By Our Approach to CSR All of Gilead’s governance bodies and employees must comply with our Code of For more than 30 years, Gilead has discovered, developed and expanded access Ethics and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC) policy. These and other corporate to best-in-class therapeutics that treat life-threatening illnesses. To ensure we policies are available on GNet, our company intranet, which is accessible to 100% of can continue to execute this mission in the future while reducing the social and managers and employees. In 2018, ABAC trainings were provided to more than 9,000 environmental impacts resulting from our business activities, we have built a employees and contractors, our Audit Committee, which is a subset of our board corporate social responsibility (CSR) program that focuses on patients, society, the of directors, and regional business partners and distributors located in Asia, North planet and our business. America and South America. Our objective is to reduce our impact on climate change, foster better communities, The success of Gilead’s Code of Ethics depends upon employee compliance with attract and retain top-tier employees, mitigate supply-chain risks and prepare for relevant laws, rules and regulations associated with their employment, including laws future regulatory changes. prohibiting insider trading. In 2018, we assembled a CSR committee to shepherd our vision and build We assess the adequacy of our key corporate policies annually to help ensure they accountability for driving positive social and environmental change across our are consistent with current regulations and good governance practices. company and supply chain. Leaders from Human Resources, Legal, Operations and Public Affairs are responsible for reviewing and making decisions on our CSRWith products distributed throughout the world, Gilead, our affiliates and others related strategies, stakeholder engagement, reporting, risk mitigation, and other acting on Gilead’s behalf are required to comply with all applicable anti-corruption relevant activities of Gilead and our subsidiaries. At least annually the CSR committee laws. These laws include the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), provides a report to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the U.K. Bribery Act and other applicable laws. Gilead offers training materials to Gilead’s Board of Directors. employees and other relevant individuals and organizations to communicate Gilead’s prohibition against corrupt or unethical activity. CSR Management, Stakeholder Gilead performs internal and external audits to monitor for compliance with regulatory Engagement and Materiality and company policies. In 2018, audits were performed in roughly 30 countries for financial or FCPA compliance. Gilead uses a companywide management approach to continuously monitor internal and external material impacts, with the purpose of reducing the potential or actual In 2018, there were no findings of corruption or other healthcare compliance negative impacts associated with company operations. Business leaders with direct violations from any government body. oversight over each topic area are responsible for managing impacts. Internal 102 201 8 201 8 103 Appendix Appendix and external stakeholders evaluate the Material Topics effectiveness of Gilead’s management Center for approach each year to identify strengths and areas for improvement. Corruption and bribery Compliance with state, federal and international laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. Political Drug safety and Recalls and adverse events; providing relevant information; efforts Accountability Every three years, we evaluate our CSR management approach, stakeholder anti-counterfeiting against counterfeiting. Ranking #24 Providing access to products around the world, including efforts to engagement process and material impacts Access and pricing ensure fair pricing. to maximize the effectiveness of our Charitable efforts aimed at reducing disparities, providing access, companywide CSR program. Our last Giving advancing medical education and supporting local communities. stakeholder engagement and materiality Efforts to eliminate all serious accidents and manage occupational Employee health exercise occurred in 2017. health and safety risks to ensure employees do not come to any harm Gilead scored and safety while at work. 94.3 100 Employee wellness, Efforts to promote employee wellness, development and Internal Stakeholders development and engagement; employee benefits and well-being; recruiting and out of engagement retention. Internal stakeholders representing Inclusion and Efforts to promote inclusion and diversity. — 24th place — in the 2018 Corporate Communications, Corporate diversity CPA-Zicklin Index of Corporate Contributions, Access Operations and Climate change and Reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with company Emerging Markets, Pharmaceutical energy operations and products by using energy efficiently. Political Disclosure and Development and Manufacturing, Global Ethical sourcing, ensuring suppliers uphold appropriate standards on Ethical supply chain Accountability, which analyzes Commercial, Commercial Process corporate responsibility issues. transparency of corporate Optimization, Environmental Health and Manufacturing Managing quality, production capacity and inventory in manufacturing Safety, Facilities, Human Resources, and supply-chain political spending by large management and supply chain. Legal, Tax, Investor Relations, and U.S. publicly held companies. Design of chemical products and processes that reduce or eliminate Regulatory Affairs were engaged to discuss Green chemistry The ranking earns us a top-tier sustainability-related topics. the generation of hazardous substances. Trendsetter mark among the Responsible Efforts to ensure that marketing is conducted ethically and complies marketing with local laws and regulations. S&P 500. Waste Hazardous and nonhazardous waste recycling. Water Efforts to manage or reduce water use from our operations. 104 201 8 201 8 105 2018 Year in Review Appendix Appendix UN UN Reporting Disclosure(a) Description Reference Page # SDG GC Boundary GRI 102: General Disclosures 2018 Year in Review External Stakeholders GRI Content Index All Gilead employees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil and GRI102-41 CONTENT INDEX Collective bargaining agreements Spain (3 percent of worldwide workforce) were subject 3 to collective bargaining agreements in 2018 UN Reporting Disclosure(a) Description Reference UNGC Page # Gilead’s external stakeholders included 17 stakeholder groups across the following SDG Boundary GRI 102: General Disclosures four categories. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-1 Name of the organization Appendix, About Gilead p.100 Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement p.103-105 Business leaders across the company selected the following material topics for our 102-43 102-2 Approach to stakeholder engagement Activities, brands, products and services and Materiality Science & Innovation, The Science Driving It All p.27 CSR Program based on the extent to which Gilead has internal or external influence, 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 102-3 Location of headquarters our relative impact, peer evaluations and due diligence. 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Appendix, About Gilead p.100 102-4 Location financial of operations statements p.5 Our Purpose, About This Report Defining report content and topic Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a publicly traded Delaware 102-46 102-5 Ownership boundariesand legal form corporation Appendix, Africa, Asia,CSR Management, Australia, Middle East,Engagement Europe,Stakeholder North 102-47 102-6 List of material Markets served topics p.105 and Materiality America and South America Banks & Global insurers NGOs Our Purpose, Looking at 2018 p.11 The total square footage of corporate facilities reported CSR ratings Regulators 102-7 102-48 Scale of the organization Restatements of information on p.47 of the 2017 Year in Review has been corrected & indices on p.82 of About Appendix, Gilead the 2018 Year in Review. p.100 Worldwide Academic 102-8 Information on employees and other Appendix, About Gilead 1, 6 p.100 Institutional institutions workers investors & 102-49 Changes in reporting 4, 5, 6, 8, analysts INVESTORS RULE-MAKERS 102-9 Supply chain Practices Our Purpose, & Environment, Responsible Delivery Systems About This Report p.5p.81 Media 9, 10 & RISK & WATCHDOGS 102-50 Reporting period ASSESSORS Worldwide Stockholders Industry 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and Practices & Environment, Responsible Delivery Systems p.82 associations 102-51 its supply Date chain of most recent report May 2018 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Appendix, Our Approach to CSR 7 p.103 Healthcare Partners 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual providers 102-12 External initiatives Our Purpose, About This Report p.5 CUSTOMERS & PEERS & Contact point for questions regarding the Korab Zuka, Vice President, Public Affairs, Insurance Peers 102-53 providers COMMUNITY BUSINESS report csr@gilead.com 102-13 Memberships or associations Science & Innovation, Our Partnerships 1 p.36-37 PARTNERS Suppliers 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the Our Purpose, About This Report p.5 Patients 102-14 GRI standards Statement from senior decision-maker Our Purpose, CEO Letter p.8-9 Generic drug 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index p.107-113 Communities manufacturers 1, 2, 3, 4, 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms Appendix, Our Governing Principles 5, 6, 7, 8, p.101 (a)102-56 External All disclosures reference assurance GRI 2016 Practices Standards and have a reporting period of & Environment, Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018Greenhouse Gas Prevention unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) 9, 10 p.91 (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 102-20 Appendix, Our Approach to CSR 1, 7, 10 p.103 environmental and social topics Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement p.104, 102-40 (a) List of stakeholder All disclosures reference groups and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) GRI 2016 Standards and Materiality 106 (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 106 201 8 (a) 201 8 All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) 107 (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 All Gilead employees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil and Worldwide 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Spain (3 percent of worldwide workforce) were subject 3 collectiveCSR Appendix, to Management, bargaining Stakeholder agreements in 2018Engagement 2018to Year Significant changes in Review the organization and 102-47 List of material topics p.105 102-10 its supply chain Appendix Practices & Environment, Responsible Delivery Systems p.82 and Materiality Appendix 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-11 Precautionary 2018principleYear in Review or approach Appendix, Our Approach to CSR 7 p.103 2018 Year in Review The total square footage of corporate facilities reported UN UN Reporting 102-48 Restatements of information on p.47 of CSR the 2017 Year in Review has been corrected Disclosure(a) Description Reference Page # Appendix, Management, Stakeholder Engagement Worldwide SDG GC Boundary on p.82 of the 2018 Year in Review. p.103-105 102-12 External initiatives Our Purpose, About This Report p.5 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement and Materiality GRI 102: General Disclosures GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102-44 CONTENT Key topics INDEX and concerns raised 102-13 Memberships or associations Science & Innovation, Our Partnerships 1 p.36-37 102-49 Changes in reporting UN Reporting Entities included in the consolidated UN Reporting Disclosure(a) Description Reference UNGC Page # 102-45 Disclosure(a) Description Our Purpose, About This Report Reference UNGC p.5 Page # All Gilead employees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil and SDG Boundary financial statements SDG p.5 Boundary 102-41 102-14 Collective bargaining Statement from senioragreements decision-maker Spain Our (3 percent Purpose, worldwide workforce) were subject CEOofLetter 3 p.8-9 102-50 Reporting period Our Purpose, About This Report GRI 102: General Disclosures to collective bargaining agreements in 2018 GRI 102: General Disclosures Defining report content and topic 102-46 boundaries 102-1 Name of the organization Appendix, About Gilead p.100 102-1 Name of the organization Appendix, About Gilead p.100 1, 2, 3, 4, 102-51 Date of most recent report May 2018 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms Appendix, Our Governing Principles 5, 6, 7, 8, p.101 Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 102-2 Identifyingbrands, Activities, and selecting products stakeholders and services Science & Innovation, The Science Driving It All 9, 10 p.27 102-47 102-2 List of material Activities, brands,topics products and services Science & Innovation, The Science Driving It All p.105 p.27 and Materiality 2018 Year in Review 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement p.103-105 102-3 102-43 Location Approachoftoheadquarters stakeholder engagement and Materiality 102-3 Location of headquarters Executive-level responsibility for economic, About Gilead to CSR 102-20 Appendix, Our Approach 1, 7, 10 p.100 p.103 Contact point for questions regarding the Appendix, The Korab total square Zuka, About Gilead Vicefootage President,of corporate facilities reported Public Affairs, p.100 102-4 environmental Location of operationsand social topics 102-53 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 102-4 102-48 report of operations Location Restatements of information on p.47 of the 2017 Year in Review has been corrected csr@gilead.com UN UN Reporting on p.82 of the 2018 Year in Review. Worldwide Disclosure (a) Description Reference Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a publicly traded Delaware Page # Entities included in the consolidated SDG GC Boundary Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a publicly traded Delaware 102-5 Ownership and legal form Appendix, 102-5 Ownership and legalinform 102-45 102-40 List of stakeholder financial statementsgroups corporationCSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement p.104, 102-54 Claims of reporting accordance with the corporation Our Purpose, About This Report p.5 and Materiality p.5106 GRI standards GRI 102: General Disclosures Our Purpose, About This Report 102-46 Defining report content and topic Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Middle East, North 102-49 2018 Year in Review Changes in reporting Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, Middle East, North 102-6 Markets boundaries served 102-6 Markets served Our Purpose,Index About This Report p.5 America and South America 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content America and South America p.107-113 All Gilead employees in Austria, Belgium, Brazil and 102-50 Reporting period 102-41 Collective bargaining Appendix, CSR Management, of worldwideStakeholder Engagement 102-47 List of material topics agreements Spain Our (3 percent 2018 Looking atagreements Purpose,bargaining workforce) were subject 3 p.105p.11 UN UN Reporting and to Materiality collective in 2018 102-56 Disclosure (a) External assurance Description Our Purpose, Practices Reference Looking at 2018 & Environment, Greenhouse Gas Prevention p.91p.11 # Page 102-7 Scale of the organization 102-7 the organization Scaleofofmost SDG GC Boundary (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) 102-51 Date recent report May 2018 (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards Appendix, About Gilead p.100 Appendix, About Gilead p.100 (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 GRI 103: Management Approach 102-8 Information on employees and other The Appendix, square totaland/or About footage Gilead corporate of directly facilities reported 1, 6 Information on employees and other (d) Includes 102-42 worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained Identifying and selecting stakeholders operational control paid utilities in 2017 p.100 102-8 102-52 Reporting Appendix, About Gilead 1, 6 p.100 102-48 workers Restatements of information on p.47 of the 2017 Year in Review has been corrected 103-1 workers cycle Explanation of the material topic and its Annual on p.82 of CSR the 2018 Year in Review. Worldwide boundary Appendix, Management, Stakeholder Engagement 4, 5, 6, 8, p.103-105 4, 5, 6, 8, 102-9 102-43 Supply Approach chain to stakeholder engagement Practices & Environment, Responsible Delivery Systems and Materiality p.81 102-9 Supply Contact The chain management approachregarding point for questions and the Practices Korab Zuka, Environment, &CSR ViceManagement, President, Responsible Public Delivery Systems Affairs, p.81 9, 10 102-53 Appendix, Stakeholder 9, 8, 10 10 103-2 1, 6, Worldwide (a) report its components All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting csr@gilead.com period of Jan.and Engagement 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c)p.103-105 Materiality 102-49 102-44 Changes Key reporting topicsinand concerns raised Worldwide (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 Worldwide Significant changes to the organization and Our Purpose, About This Report p.5 (d)103-3 Includes worldwide Claims forreporting sites of Significant Evaluation changes of intoaccordance the Gilead management which the with organization approach maintained the and control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 operational 102-10 Entities included Practices & Environment, Responsible Delivery Systems p.82 102-54 102-10 Our Purpose, Practices About This Report & Environment, Responsible Delivery Systems p.5p.82 102-45 its supply chain in the consolidated GRI standards its supply chain 102-50 Reportingstatements financial period p.5 Our Purpose, About This Report GRI 201: Economic Performance Defining report content and topic 102-55 GRI content index GRI ContentOur Index p.107-113 102-46 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Appendix, Our Approach to CSR 7 p.103 102-11 Precautionary Direct economic principle or approach value generated Appendix, Approach to CSR 7 p.103 102-51 boundaries Date of most recent report May 2018 201-1 Our Purpose, Looking at 2018 p.10-11 and distributed 102-12 External initiatives Our Purpose, Appendix, CSRAbout This Report Management, Stakeholder Engagement p.5 102-12 102-56 External initiatives External assurance Our Purpose, Practices & Environment, Report About This Greenhouse Gas Prevention p.91p.5 Worldwide 102-47 List of material topics p.105 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual and Materiality Defined benefit plan obligations and other Working at Gilead, Compensation and Financial 201-3 p.44 retirement plans Benefits 102-13 Memberships or associations Science & Innovation, Our Partnerships 1 p.36-37 102-13 Memberships or associations Science & Innovation, Our Partnerships 1 p.36-37 Contact point for questions regarding the Korab Zuka, Vice President, Public Affairs, 102-53 report The total square footage of corporate facilities reported csr@gilead.com GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 102-48 102-14 Restatements Statement information fromofsenior decision-maker on p.47 Our Year in Review has been corrected 2017Letter of theCEO Purpose, p.8-9 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Our Purpose, CEO Letter p.8-9 on p.82 of the 2018 Year in Review. Worldwide Claims of reporting in accordance with the Operations assessed for risks related to 102-54 Our Purpose, About This Report p.5 205-1 GRI standards (a) corruption All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) 1, 2, 3, 4, (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards 1, 2, 3, 4, 102-16 102-49 Changesprinciples, Values, in reporting standards and norms Appendix, Our Governing Principles 5, 6, 7, 8, p.101 102-16 (c) Values,Jan. Reporting period covers 1, 2017 to principles, standards 2017norms Dec. 31, and Appendix, Our Governing Principles 5, 6, 7, 8, p.101 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 9, 10 p.107-113 (d) Includes worldwide Communication sites for which and Gileadtraining about operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 maintained 9,1010 205-2 (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting periodAppendix, The of Jan. 1, 2018 Code to Dec. 31,We 2018 unlessBythe disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) Stand p.102 Worldwide Our Purpose, About This Report p.5 anti-corruption (b) Disclosure references policies and procedures GRI 2018 Standards (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 102-50 Reporting period (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 102-56 External assurance Executive-level responsibility for economic, Practices & Environment, Greenhouse Gas Prevention p.91 Confirmed Executive-levelincidents of corruption responsibility and for economic, 102-20 Appendix, Our Approach to CSR 1, 7, 10 p.103 205-3 102-20 Appendix, Our Approach to CSR 1, 7, 10 p.103 environmental and social topics actions taken and social topics environmental (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period May 102-51 Date of most recent report of Jan.2018 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards 2016 GRI 302: Energy (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement p.104, Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder Engagement p.104, (d)102-40 List of Includes worldwide sites forstakeholder groups operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 which Gilead maintained 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 102-52 Reporting cycle and Materiality Annual 106 and Materiality 106 Energy consumption within the Practices & Environment, Worldwide Energy 302-1(c) 7, 8, 9 p.95-96 organization Consumption (a) ContactGRI All disclosures reference point 2016for Standards questionsand regarding the Korab have a reporting periodZuka, Vice of Jan. 1, President, 2018 to Dec. Public Affairs, 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (b)102-53 Gilead does not currently track energy consumption Disclosure references reportGRI 2018 Standards csr@gilead.com Energy consumption outside of (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 302-2 outside of the organization, but may do so in the the organization (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 future. Claims of reporting in accordance with the (a)102-54 All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting Our of Jan.About Purpose, period ThistoReport 1, 2018 Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) p.5 All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reportingPractices period of&Jan. GRI standards (a) Environment, Worldwide 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 Energy unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards 302-3 (b) (c) Disclosure referencesEnergy GRIintensity 2018 Standards 8 Consumption (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 p.96 Worldwide(d) 108 (d) Includes worldwide 102-55 GRIsites for which indexGilead maintained operationalGRI content control and/or Content 20 paid Index 1 8 directly in 2017 utilities p.107-113 (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid 20 1 8 directly in 2017 utilities p 109 302-4(c) Reduction of energy consumption Practices & Environment, Energy Efficiency 7, 8, 9 The management approach and Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder 103-2 1, 6, 8, 10 p.103-105 Worldwide its components Engagement and Materiality Appendix Appendix 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic2018 valueYear in generated Review Our Purpose, Looking at 2018 p.10-11 2018 Year in Review and distributed Worldwide Defined benefit plan obligations and other Working at Gilead, Compensation and Financial 201-3 p.44 retirement plans Benefits UN UN Reporting UN UN Reporting Disclosure(a) Description Reference Page # Disclosure(a) Description Reference Page # SDG GC Boundary SDG GC Boundary 103: Management GRI 205: Anti-Corruption Approach GRI 305: Emissions Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 305-1(c) Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 7, 8 205-1 boundary corruption The management approach and Appendix, CSR Management, Stakeholder 103-2 1, 6, 8, 10 p.103-105 Worldwide 305-2(c) Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 7, 8 Communication its components and training about Engagement and Materiality p.93 205-2 Appendix, The Code We Stand By 10 p.102 Worldwide anti-corruption policies and procedures 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 305-3(c) Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Practices & Environment, GHG Reduction 7, 8 Worldwide(d) Confirmed incidents of corruption and Initiatives 205-3 GRI 201: Economicactions taken Performance 305-4(c) GHG emissions intensity 8 2016 Direct economic value generated 201-1 GRI 302: Energy Our Purpose, Looking at 2018 p.10-11 and distributed Energy consumption within the Practices & Environment, Worldwide Energy Worldwide 305-5(c) Reduction of GHG emissions 7, 8, 9 p.92 302-1(c) 7, 8, 9 p.95-96 organization Defined benefit plan obligations and other Consumption Working at Gilead, Compensation and Financial 201-3 p.44 retirement plans Benefits Gilead does not currently track Gilead does not currently track energy consumption 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) ozone-depleting substances, but Energy consumption outside of 302-2 outside of the organization, but may do so in the may do so in the future. the organization GRI 205: Anti-Corruption future. GRI 306: Effluent Operations assessed for risks related to Practices & Environment, Worldwide Energy 302-3 205-1 (c) Energy intensity 8 corruption Consumption p.96 Worldwide(d) 306-2(c) Waste by type and disposal method p Practices & Environment, Increased Recycling 7, 8 p.98-99 Worldwide(d) 302-4(c) Reduction of energy Communication consumption and training about Practices & Environment, Energy Efficiency 7, 8, 9 Efforts 205-2 Appendix, The Code We Stand By 10 p.102 Worldwide 306-4(c) Transport of hazardous waste anti-corruption policies and procedures Confirmed Gilead does not currently track reductions in energy GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 205-3 Reductionsincidents in energyofrequirements corruption and of 302-5 actions requirements associated with manufacturing its productstaken and services products, but may do so in the future. New suppliers that were screened using Practices & Environment, Risk Management & 2016 GRI 302: Energy 308-1 p.87 environmental criteria Performance GRI 303: Water 7, 8 Worldwide Energy consumption within the Practices & Environment, Worldwide Energy 302-1(c) 7, 8, 9 p.95-96 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain organization Consumption 308-2 Practices & Environment, Auditing Procedures 303-5(b), (c) Water consumption Practices & Environment, Better Water Management 7, 8, 9 p.97 Worldwide(d) and actions taken Gilead does not currently track energy consumption p.88-89 Energy consumption outside of 302-2 outside of the organization, but may do so in the the organization GRI 401: Employment future. Practices & Environment, Worldwide Energy 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Working at Gilead, Our People by the Numbers 4, 5, 6 p.56 302-3(c) Energy intensity 8 Consumption p.96 Worldwide(d) p (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Worldwide 302-4 (b) (c) Disclosure references Reduction GRI 2018of energy consumption Standards Practices & Environment, Energy Efficiency 7, 8, 9 401-2 p.43-47 not provided to temporary or part-time employees (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 Working at Gilead, How We Reward, (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 Recognize, and Retain Employees Gilead does not currently track reductions in energy 401-3 Parental leave p.46 Reductions in energy requirements of 302-5 requirements associated with manufacturing its products and services products, but may do so in the future. (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (c)GRI 303: Water Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 303-5(b), (c) Water consumption Practices & Environment, Better Water Management 7, 8, 9 p.97 Worldwide(d) (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards 110 (a) 201 8 All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 201 8 111 (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 GRI 413: Local Communities Appendix Operations with local community engagement, Community Impact, A p Giving p e nBack d itoxOur 413-1 p.69-73 Worldwide impact assessments and development programs Communities GRI 414: Supplies Social Assessment 2018 Year in Review 2018 Year in Review New suppliers that were screened using social 414-1 p.87 criteria Practices & Environment, Risk Management & Worldwide Performance UN UN Reporting Negative social impacts in the supply chain and UN UN Reporting Disclosure(a) Description Reference Page # 414-2 Disclosure (a) Description Reference p.88-89 Page # SDG GC Boundary actions taken SDG GC Boundary 2018 Year in Review GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 416: Customer GRI 403: Health Occupational and and Health Safety Safety Workers representation in formal joint Workers representation in formal joint 403-1 403-1 Assessment of the health andandsafety impacts of Practices & Environment, Safety, Ethics and management–worker health and safety committees 416-1 management–worker health safety committees p.89 Worldwide product and service categories Transparency UN UN Reporting Working at Gilead, Building a Culture of Disclosure(a) Description Reference Working at Gilead, Building a Culture of Page # p.58 Worldwide SDG GC p.58 Boundary Worldwide Workplace Safety Workplace Safety Types of injury and rates of injury, Types of injury and rates of injury, 403-9(b) occupational diseases, lost days, 403-9 GRI 417:(b) occupational Marketing and Labeling diseases, lost days, absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities Requirements for product and service information 417-1 GRI 404: Training and Education GRI 404: Trainingand andlabeling Education (a) IncidentsGRI All disclosures reference 2016 Standards and noncompliance of non-compliance concerning and of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with product period have a reporting (b) or (c) Working at Gilead, Professional and Personal 417-2 (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards Practices Environment, Working at& Gilead, Professional Ethics Safety, and and Personal 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 6 p.46 404-1 (c) service Reporting periodAverage hours covers Jan. to Dec.per of training 1, 2017 2017per employee 31,year 6 p.89 p.46 Worldwide Development Transparency Development (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 Worldwide Worldwide noncompliance concerning marketing Incidents of non-compliance 417-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Working at Gilead, Compensation and Percentage of employees receiving regular Working at Gilead, Compensation and 404-3 communications p.44 404-3 p.44 performance and career development reviews Financial Benefits performance and career development reviews Financial Benefits GRI 418: Customer Privacy GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Working at Gilead, Our People by the Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Working at& Gilead, Practices Environment, Safety,byEthic, Our People the s and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 6 p.57 U.S. Only 418-1 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 6 p.89 p.57 Worldwide U.S. Only Numbers customer privacy and losses of customer data Transparency Numbers Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Working at Gilead, Compensation and Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Working at Gilead, Compensation and 405-2 6 p.44 U.S. Only 405-2 6 p.44 U.S. Only and men Financial Benefits and men Financial Benefits GRI 413: Local Communities GRI 413: Local Communities Operations with local community engagement, Community Impact, Giving Back to Our Operations with local community engagement, Community Impact, Giving Back to Our 413-1 p.69-73 Worldwide 413-1 p.69-73 Worldwide impact assessments and development programs Communities impact assessments and development programs Communities GRI 414: Supplies Social Assessment GRI 414: Supplies Social Assessment New suppliers that were screened using social New suppliers that were screened using social 414-1 p.87 414-1 p.87 criteria criteria Practices & Environment, Risk Management & Practices & Environment, Risk Management & Worldwide Worldwide Performance Performance Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 414-2 p.88-89 414-2 p.88-89 actions taken actions taken GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 Assessment (c) Reporting period covers of to Jan. 1, 2017 health theDec. and safety impacts of 31, 2017 Practices & Environment, Safety, Ethics and (d) Includes worldwideAssessment of the sites for which health Gilead and safety maintained impacts operational Practices of and/or paid control & Environment, utilities directly in 2017 Safety, Ethics and (d)416-1 sites for which Includes worldwideproduct Gilead maintained and service categories operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 Transparency p.89 Worldwide 416-1 p.89 Worldwide product and service categories Transparency All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) 112 113 (a) (a) All disclosures reference GRI 2016 Standards and have a reporting period of Jan. 1, 2018 2 0 to 1 Dec. 8 31, 2018 unless the disclosure is marked with (b) or (c) (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards 201 8 (b) Disclosure references GRI 2018 Standards (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (c) Reporting period covers Jan. 1, 2017 to Dec. 31, 2017 (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017 (d) Includes worldwide sites for which Gilead maintained operational control and/or paid utilities directly in 2017
