2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SECTION 2 SECTION 1 SUSTAINABILITY SECTION 3 INTRODUCTION P.02 AT AKSA P.12 INDICATORS P.43 P.03 P.04 Aksa at a Glance P.13 P.17 P.44 P.45 About the Report Message Generated Economic Goals Primary Financial About Aksa from the Value Indicators Chairman P.15 Message from the General Manager P.05 P.46 P.47 Aksa Vision Model P.22 P.24 Human Resources Environmental P.06 Aksa Supply Chain Sustainable Indicators Performance Governance at Aksa Operations P.48 P.07 GRI G4 Content Index P.53 Our Brands P.30 UN Global Compact Our Environmental Performance Communication on Aksa’s Brands Progress P.32 Touch The Value Contributed to the Life... Employees P.39 Value Contributed to the Society SECTION I INTRODUCTION AKSA AKRİLİK RECEIVED THE HIGHEST INVESTMENT NOTE JCR Eurasia Rating, an international credit rating agency, rated our company at AA (Trk) / Stable Investable level. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION G4 17-20-21-22-23 # fiberfortheworld P.3 ABOUT THE REPORT ABOUT AKSA Established Started We Based on Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Aksa Akrilik has been established in Yalova in in production reached a with a production Reporting Guidelines, we have continued to 1971 with a capacity of 5,000 tons per year to publish a sustainability report each year since meet Turkey's acrylic fiber needs. Since then, 1968 2005. Through this report, which we have now prepared for the 13th time, we disclose it has grown to become the world's largest acrylic fiber producer by constantly growing capacity of capacity in a comprehensive and transparent manner and developing its own technology. 5.000 of 315.000 tons/year in tons/year the social, economic and environmental performance that Aksa has demonstrated in With more than 1,200 employees, an area all its operational activities and present to all stakeholders valuable information. of 502,000 square meters and a capacity of 315,000 ton per year, Aksa Akrilik is the 1971 Today biggest producer in the world and the only We have prepared our report in accordance acrylic fiber producer in Turkey. Aksa exports with the GRI G4 Guidelines core option. to more than 300 customers in more than 50 This report, which also represents our countries on 5 continents. commitment to the ten principles set out in the United Nations Global Compact to which Focusing on active marketing activities in we are signatories, is also a report on our the domestic market during the year, Aksa progress. Akrilik succeeded in maintaining its market share and sales volume thanks to the 98% We have included in this report our activities utilization of capacity in 2017. Realizing and performance results from Turkey, about 1/6 of world acrylic fiber production where our activity takes place. We have in 2017, Aksa Akrilik has maintained 17% of prepared our report in accordance with the global market and 69% of the domestic the GRI G4 Guidelines reporting principles market. Aksa Akrilik achieved 63% of 2017 and we include not only our productionsales in the domestic market, with the driven impact, but also our broad impact remaining 37% in foreign markets. on the various phases of our value chain within the broad scope of our sustainability Aksa Akrilik produces about 850 tons of priorities. We are committed to increasing fiber per day, which makes it possible to performance in communication with attire knitwear for 2 million individuals per stakeholders in service of transparency and day. The company, which has an energy accountability. production license of 142.5 MWe, is able to produce all of its own energy. We are publishing the PDF version of the Aksa Akrilik 2017 Sustainability Report As a result of R&D efforts, Aksa entered digitally for our stakeholders in order to the carbon fiber market in 2009. Aksa minimize environmental impacts (available at joined DowAksa, a joint venture based on www.aksa.com). 50% equity with Dow Europe Holdings B.V. in 2012. The Company's carbon fiber You can contact us at surdurulebilirlik@aksa.com production, maintains a capacity of 3,500 with requests, suggestions, complaints or tons per year. any kind of feedback about our reporting performance. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION # fiberfortheworld P.4 AKSA AT A GLANCE 39 75 50 years of experience 2013-2017 TL 185 MILLION TL 2.8 BILLION TL 2.2 BILLION ISO 500 GIB + Turkey’s Turkey’s Continuous The highest 2017 BIST 39th 75th 1,300 LARGEST corporate financial growth dividend turnover Company Value company TAXPAYER in 5-year period employees 502,000 m2 The world's largest single location acrylic fiber SOLE production plant The World's ton/year LARGEST Turkey’s sole 315,000 acrylic fiber producer acrylic fiber producer +Customers Market Share Distribution of Sales 1 300 96.3 6 + TURKEY 69% 63% DOMESTIC The part of world acrylic fiber 50 + Countries Turkey's highest corporate WORLD 17 % 37% EXPORT production that is covered by Aksa 5 Continents governance rating ISO: Istanbul Chamber of Industry GİB: Tax Revenue Administration AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION G4 14 # fiberfortheworld P.5 AKSA VISION MODEL WHAT WE ARE FOR To direct the sector that we are leading and OUR MISSION To create sustainable value for our stakeholders WHERE WE ARE HEADING In order to reach sustainable growth and profitability; OUR SUPERORDINATE Investing in our technology to maximize GOALS operational excellence Discovering new usage areas for Acrylic Fiber Growing through new products or strategic collaborations WHAT DEFINES OUR STAND HSE Awareness OUR CORE VALUES Compliance with Ethical Values Openness to Cooperation Customer Orientation WHAT OUR BEST FEATURES ARE Participatory Management OUR BASIC QUALITIES Innovation and being open to change Lean thinking Experience and Knowledge Accumulation Motivated, Engaged and Solution-Producing Employees AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 INTRODUCTION # fiberfortheworld P.6 AKSA SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT R&D Solvent Recovery LAND SEA RAW MATERIAL PRODUCT PRODUCT SUPPLY BRANDS DELIVERY PRODUCTION Chemistry Fields Textile Fields PORT LAND SEA SUPPLY ASH: INDUSTRIAL RAW MATERIAL ENERGY PRODUCTION BY-PRODUCT PROVIDING ENERGY TO SISTER COMPANIES AND THE GRID WHAT IS ACRYLIC FIBER? Acrylic fiber is the fiber most similar to wool among artificial fibers. Acrylic fibers are classified as either textile or technical fibers. Textile fibers are used in clothing and home textiles, while technical fibers are used in for industrial materials and outdoor purposes. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 FOUR NEW GENERATION BRANDS # fiberfortheworld P.7 Aksa’s brands touch the life... Aksa Akrilik, the world's leading producer of acrylic fiber with 50 years of experience and a customer-focused approach, has introduced four new brands that touch every aspect of life. Maintaining and increasing client support with expertise, product quality, technical service and reliability, Aksa Akrilik continues to grow with customer needs in mind. Aksa is empowered by its newbrand mentality to implement its vision of providing the highest quality and always meeting customers' expectations. Aksa Akrilik aims to give new vision to the acrylic fiber sector with its new brands Acryluna, Acrysole, Acryterna and Acrylusion, to the point wherein Aksa becomes the world's leading acrylic fiber producer. Textile Outdoor Acrylic Industrial Fibers Fibers Filament Fibers AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ACRYLUNA # fiberfortheworld P.8 Acryluna is with you at every moment of your life, from knitwear to carpets and hand knitting to upholstery as well as blankets... Acryluna is produced in superior technology that can be in thousands of colors and will make you feel the naturalness and warmness of wool anywhere you touch. Acryluna is here to offer you a warmer, more comfortable and more colorful world. · Easy to wash and maintains its shape · Naturalness and warmth similar to wool, both in · Resistant to moths, moulds and chemicals appearance and feel · Can be dyed into bright colours with a perfect fastness · Odour resistant · Resistant to sunrays · Has a range of more than 10.000 colours TEXTILE CLOTHING FIBERS Knitwear Plush Hand knitting Sportswear Children's Wear At Every Moment of Life! HOME TEXTILE Rugs Carpets Velvet Fabric Blankets Upholstery AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ACRYSOLE # fiberfortheworld P.9 No more wear, mold or deterioration! There is no more wear, mold or deterioration with Acrysole, instead, it provides a durable experience and a long lifetime like never before... · Perfect light and air fastness · Maintains its shape as a fabric · Long term use · Highly resistant to abrasion · Resistant to mold, mildew and chemicals OUTDOOR FIBERS Perfection in Durability! INDOOR AND BOAT AWNINGS CARTOPS OUTDOOR FURNITURE COVERS AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ACRYLUSION # fiberfortheworld P.10 Your carpets will remain like the first day with Acrylusion. Vivacious colours and elegant feeling will be everywhere with Acrylusion. ACRYLIC FILAMENT The Solution Dyed Acrylic Filament Bright Colours and Yarn Acrylusion , developed by Aksa, gives a silky apperance to Silky Touch in Carpets! the carpets through superior color CARPET UPHOLSTERY brightness. Silky gloss and softness · Durable and vivacious colours · Easy cleaning · Zero dusting · Dirt resistant · Resistant to mold, mildew and chemicals · AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ACRYTERNA # fiberfortheworld P.11 Acryterna is Aksa’s symbol of the technology with its endurance to high temperatures, excellent filtering characteristics, resistance to shrinkage and high modulus... · High strength · Low residual shrinkage · Excellent chemical resistance · High thermal resistance · Strong endurance to hydrolysis · High modulus · Reliability up to 140 °C peak temperature with continuous operation temperature of 125 °C INDUSTRIAL FIBERS High Performance in Industrial Applications! HOT GAS FILTRATION (Cool CONSTRUCTION CAR BRAKE Operated Power Generation) INDUSTRY BATTERIES LININGS SECTION II AKSA AKRİLİK IS SELECTED AS THE MOST CORPORATE COMPANY, AGAIN. Aksa Akrilik has left 50 companies behind in Borsa SUSTAINABILITY Istanbul Corporate Governance Index. Aksa reached the first place again in 2017 by raising its Corporate Governance Rating Note from 95.98 to 96.32. IN AKSA AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN # fiberfortheworld P.13 Distinguished Shareholders, We embrace sustainability as a guarantee skill, planning, patience, perseverance and industry, which has been scheduled in our who are leading us and clearing the Business Partners and of tomorrow in our rapidly changing and determination for many years has nourished sustainability agenda. path we follow; and our stakeholders developing world. In this direction, we this success. All transactions of our company that constantly support us. Stakeholders, have been publishing sustainability reports are structured to serve the Company's I believe that Aksa's core business strategies of since 2004. We prepare our reports in an sustainability. We analyze the needs of operational excellence, finding new uses for We would like to share with you the integrated manner with the world and our stakeholders well and manage their acrylic fiber, and growing through strategic data that you can review in detail Aksa has a discipline focused on working in internationally recognized standards processes in a balanced way. alliances will help us reach our targets for that contributes to our company's and producing positive value for its of GRI in line with our understanding of where we plan to be in five years. I also believe sustainability vision. habitat, country and world, with its solid accountability, and moreover, we comply DowAksa is our subsidiary based on equal that this success is a big part of collaborations values derived from 50 years of experience. with the United Nations Global Compact. partnership with DowChemical. Its material with all our stakeholders. Best regards, We place sustainability at the center of technology in carbon fiber production will our strategy and working style as an The awards and recognitions that Aksa contribute indirectly to the reduction of CO2 Despite the tough economic conditions we are Mehmet Ali Berkman understanding further beyond the purpose has received in this highly successful year emissions by improving the performance in, the main factors contributing to our strong Chairman of the Board of profit, and manage our operational are not the results of efforts we put forth and lightness of the vehicles to the desired belief is our experienced, hardworking and processes at this axis. only in 2017. We believe that experience, extent in the aviation and automotive dedicated employees; our Board of Directors 5% RAISE IN ENERGY PRODUCTIVITY 52% MORE PRODUCTIVE WITH 84,329 GJ THERMAL ENERGY SAVING 92% MORE PRODUCTIVE WITH 9,747 GJ ELECTRIC ENERGY SAVING EMPLOYMENT AKSA 4 LABS 2016 2017 OHS Performance 2016 2017 A k r i lik AKAT Number of Observers 145 301 876 M SPACE2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) 1,240,248 1,185,539 AKAT Number of Contacts 3,607 13,974 R&D 41 R&D EXPERTS AKAT Number of Observations 2,209 9,782 Center Waste Water Discharge 20 PROJECTS (m3) 2,830,040 2,392,690 OHS Trainings (person*hour) 21,060 21,280 GOLD-LEED BUILDING CERTIFICATE FOR THE HEADQUARTERS ENVIROMENT 4 M SPACE AKSA LABS A k r i lik 876ISO 14046 WATER FOOTPRINT STANDARD CERTIFICATE 2 FRR I&E NDD LY 41 R & D EXPERTS NEW TURBINE INVESTMENT INVESTMENTS Center 20 PROJECTS INVESTMENTS IN MODERNIZATION & OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER # fiberfortheworld P.14 With its solid values from fifty years of experience crafted till its core, Aksa concentrates on producing sustainable positive value. The uninterrupted growth and success we have achieved within the last five years, which we see as a natural result of this mindset, continued in 2017 without ever slowing down. NOTES CREDIT RATING EKONOMIC INDICATORS Long Term National Note Long Term Foreign Currency AA (Trk) BBBEBITDA NET PROFIT ASSETS EQUITY Outlook Outlook Stable Stable 515 295 3.4 1.4 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE million, tl million, tl billion, tl billion, tl 96.32 AWARDS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TKYD RATING EXPORTS İTHİB PLATIN AWARDS 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LACP BEST 100 MERCOMM 1 1 COMMUNICATION GALAXY st st SPOTLIGHT MATERIALS GOLD 30 th BRONZE AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER # fiberfortheworld P.15 Corporate Governance Awards organized by the Distinguished Shareholders, With the numbers we have put forward, we have again reached the top rankings on the Association of Corporate Governance, which we Business Partners and received for the second time after 2016, at the ISO 500 list. We entered Turkey's Top 500 Stakeholders, Industrial Enterprises list in 39th place, Fortune top of among many achievements and awards 500 list in the 96th spot in terms of size of net that added value to our company in 2017. Our sales, and we rank 111th in Capital magazine’s corporate governance rating has been raised from As Aksa, we achieved significant 95.98 to 96.32, which demonstrates that we are list. We are the 75th largest corporate tax accomplishments in 2017 with our dynamic not just satisfied with first place but always put our payer. management team and experience resolve to do better. exceeding 50 years. The uninterrupted We need to expand the exports of our growth we experienced in the last five years, In the reporting period, we were awarded ISO country and, at Aksa, we understand this continued in 2017 without ever slowing 14046 Water Footprint Standard Certificate in the responsibility. We believe that Aksa’a down. While we reached a turnover of TL 2.8 scope of sustainable water management. Aksa selection as the first in the Platinum Awards billion, we distributed a historical dividend became the first company to receive this certificate given by Istanbul Textile and Raw Materials of TL 185 million. Production, exports and in the chemical and textile sectors. Exporters’ Association (İTHİB) to those who employment figures rose. We reached TL export $25 million or more is a reflection of 2.8 billion consolidated turnover, TL 515 The 2016 Sustainability Report, as our 12th this understanding. million EBITDA and TL 295 million net profit. sustainability report, won three awards. Our At the end of 2017, our company reached report received a gold medal at the LACP We carried our borders internationally TL 3.4 billion in assets and TL 1.4 billion in Spotlight competition from the world's leading through the appreciation and awards we equity. With the effect of new investments awards programs and entered the Top 100 List received. JCR Eurasia Rating designated Aksa of 361 Million TL, we increased employment of Communication Materials in the World in Akrilik's Long Term National Note AA (Trk) by 5%. While focusing on active marketing 30th place. In another prestigious competition, as Stable.” Long Term International Foreign activities in the domestic market during the Mercomm Galaxy, we won a bronze medal in the and Local Currency Notes and Appearances year, market share and sales volume were category Online Sustainability Reports.” were determined as BBBand Stable,” maintained thanks to the 98% capacity which are country ceilings. With this rating, utilization rate. As of the end of 2017, We received the LEED-GOLD Leadership in we succeeded in taking a place in the 17% of the global market and 69% of the Energy and Environmental Design Green Building category in which companies can be invested domestic market were reached. While more Certificate in 2017 for our new headquarters, to at a high level. than 300 customers exported to more than which we moved last year. 50 countries across 5 continents, 63% of the sales were made to the domestic market Our way of doing Aksa was given the R & D center certificate by and 37% to the foreign market. We produce sustainable business is the Ministry of Technology. At Aksa Akrilik R & D about 850 thousand kilos per day, which collecting appreciation and Center, which is registered as the 432nd R & D Center is enough to fabricate 2 million knitwears rewards in our country, we are conducting R & D activities to per day. With our 145 MWe capacity find new uses for acrylic fiber and to develop new power generation license, we are capable Aksa's success in 2017 was not limited to products. Aksa Akrilik Central Laboratory was also of producing energy for ourselves and our commercial and economic areas. We can registered as an accredited institution by the Turkish group companies in Yalova. undoubtedly put our first place at the 8th Accreditation Agency (TÜRKAK.) AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER # fiberfortheworld P.16 Focused on Productivity and high-grade flame retardant that can only be In this direction, I would like to thank all Quality in 2017 produced by a limited number of companies of our employees, including our newlyin the world. Acrylusion, on the other hand, joined friends, our senior management, In addition to our branding and R & D has transformed into a product demanded our shareholders, our customers and all our activities, we focused on productivity and especially by the woven carpet industry due stakeholders. quality in 2017. We continued to work to its silky softness. In addition to creating on modernization and standardization of new areas of use for acrylic fibers, our Best regards, existing production machines. We invested research about differentiation of acrylics also TL 361 million in total. Operational excellence progress successfully. Cengiz Taş holds the most important place among these Board Member and General Manager investments. We also have investments in the The concept of direction of our strategy to find new uses for sustainability is among acrylic fiber. These include a polymer plant Aksa's indispensable values. with a capacity of 1,000 tons per year to provide modacrylic fiber to high-grade flame We believe that Aksa plays a pioneering role retardant fiber and artificial hair sectors and in the formation and understanding of the the investment of 4 filament production sustainability approach in Turkey. As one of machines, each with a capacity of 800 tons the few companies in our country that shares per year to realize capacity increases in the the 13th sustainability report with the public, filament yarn sector. we place sustainability at the center of our strategy and working style, managing our We attach importance operational processes at this axis. We grow to branding in Aksa's together with the habitat in which we are sustainability approach established. We take responsibility for the socio-economic development of our country, One of the most important developments especially in this region, and act with the for us in 2017 was to bring our four new knowledge that we are accountable for brands, touching every aspect of life, to the results of our works. Our sustainability our customers. We have demonstrated priorities are contributions to the society, the softness, warmth and delightful employees, environment and sustainable color world of acrylic fiber with Acryluna, operations. We revised our Vision Model our solutions in awnings and outdoor in 2017 to use this understanding more applications with Acrysole, industrial areas fruitfully, and we have included sustainable of use with Acryterna and the innovative growth as well as sustainable profitability. and distinguished side of acrylic filament In line with these goals, we have added product with Acrylusion. We completed our innovation and openness to change to our R & D work on modacrylic fiber, which is a basic values. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE G4 4-6-8-9 # fiberfortheworld P.17 After posting uninterrupted annual growth for the five-year period between 20122016, Aksa Akrilik continued carrying this stable line in 2017 with more success. Having left behind a successful and profitable year, Aksa Akrilik has generated TL 2.8 billion turnover, TL 515 million EBITDA and TL 295 million net profit. At the end of 2017, it reached TL 3.4 billion in assets and reached 1.4 billion TL in equity. Adopting a spirit of sharing with its stakeholders regarding dividend policy, Aksa paid a nominal dividend of TL 185 million with an increase of 18%. Basic Economic Indicators EBITDA BRUT PROFIT DIVIDEND* During the period 2013-2017, Aksa increased its EBITDA by Aksa succeeded in completing the year 2017 by producing Aksa increased the amount of dividends distributed by 67% 104% on aggregate and by 32% year-on-year. 20% brut profits. over the five-year period and by 18% year-on-year. (TL, Million) (%) (TL, Million) 2013 252 2013 16 2013 111 2014 285 2014 15 2014 108 2015 350 2015 19 2015 122 2016 390 2016 22 2016 157 2017 515 2017 20 2017 185 104% 20% 67% * The dividend distributed in the related year is the dividend distribution process of the previous year. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE G4 4-6-8-9 # fiberfortheworld P.18 Aksa sets new goals to maintain sustainability and, constantly invests to meet these goals. These investments, in addition to accelerating Aksa as it progresses towards its goals, create new employment capacity and increase the number of employees. In line with the intensive investments commenced in 2017, employment accelerated by 5%. Basic Economic Indicators EMPLOYMENT COMPANY VALUE INVESTMENTS Despite the small decline seen in 2016, Aksa increased its The value of Aksa, which was calculated based on the value Between 2013 and 2017, employment by 9.2% year on year and by 46% in total in the of shares in Stock Exchange Istanbul in 2017, increased by USD 350 million were invested in total. period of 2013-2017. 54% and reached to TL 2.2 billion. (Quantity) (Millon TL) (Millon USD) 2013 896 2013 981 2013 75 2014 1,248 2014 997 2014 57 2015 1,217 2015 1,504 2015 83 2016 1,248 2016 1,436 2016 36 2017 1,307 2017 2,216 2017 99 4.7% 54% * Calculated with corrected price as of 31.12.2017. 350 MILLION USD AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE G4 4-6-8-9 # fiberfortheworld P.19 INVESTMENTS BY AKSA AKRILIK CONTINUE NONSTOP The incentive application for Aksa Akrilik's modernization Aksa's incentive application in the scope of Continuous Aksa continued its efforts to increase productivity investments to be realized in the coming years was Filament and Modacrylic products, which are developed and quality in 2017 in line with its operational approved by the Ministry of Economy, General Directorate thanks to the R & D by Aksa, have been welcomed by the excellence strategy. Additionally, the modernization of Incentive Implementation and Foreign Investments. Ministry of Economy, General Directorate of Incentive and standardization of existing production machines Implementation and Foreign Investments. continued. The incentive application for Aksa Akrilik's 132899. The incentive certificate received Aksa's incentive application in the scope entitled to investment incentives after Investment expenditures amounting to increase the capacity in the filament yarn modernization investments to be realized within the scope of the project for the of Continuous Filament and Modacrylic meeting the criteria set by the Ministry 361 Million TL were realized in 2017. In sector have been implemented. By the end in the coming years was concluded modernization of textile machinery will products, which are developed thanks to of Economy. Within this scope, while the addition to these investments, a 1,000 ton of 2017, a new steam turbine investment by the Ministry of Economy, General be valid for four (4) years from 12.06.2017 the R & D by Aksa, have been aproved modacrylic was classified in the strategic per year capacity polymer plant to provide of 100 mW was introduced, providing Directorate of Incentive Implementation to 12.06.2021. Incentive will cover up to by the Ministry of Economy, General product investment category by the modacrylic fiber to the incendiary fiber more reliable electricity supply, improved and Foreign Investments. The application 161.690.000 TL, and the supported items Directorate of Incentive Implementation Ministry, it was decided for Aksa to receive sector and the artificial hair sector and four cycle cost and increased capacity with the was approved by the investment incentive will be exempted from customs tax and and Foreign Investments. The result of R regional incentives within the framework filament production machines, each of same boiler operating conditions. certificate dated 05.10.2017 and numbered VAT. & D work carried out over the years, the of the new investment of the Company. which has a capacity of 800 ton per year to filament and modacrylic products are Investment expenditures • Infrastructure Facilities Maintenance • R & D Projects • Projects to Improve Energy Efficiency 361 tl million • Raw Material Warehouse and Port • Process and Product Development Investments • SEVESO Investments • Textile Investments • Renewal Modernization Projects • New Product Investments AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE G4 4-6-8-9 # fiberfortheworld P.20 AMONG THE LARGEST Aksa enjoys Aksa holds its position among Turkey's leading companies, ranking 39th the proud ranking in ISO 500 list, 96th in Fortune 500 list and 111th in Capital magazine’s Turkey's Top 500 Private Companies research. Aksa Akrilik is also of among Turkey’s tax champion companies by ranking 75th in Top 100 Corporate Tax Payers of Turkey*. ISO 500 FORTUNE 500 CAPITAL 500 GIB 39 th among Turkey’s 39 96 111 75 500 largest industrial enterprises! ISO: Istanbul Chamber of Industry GİB: Tax Revenue Administration * Latest data belongs to the figures of 2016. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE G4 4-6-8-9 # fiberfortheworld P.21 EXPORT HIGH-LEVEL INVESTABLE RATING CHAMPION FOR AKSA Aksa received the International credit rating agency JCR Eurasia Rating classified Platinum Award Aksa within investment grade. at the İTHİB Award Aksa took its place among high-level investable companies, signaling a big success with the rating submitted by JCR Eurasia Rating. JCR Eurasia Rating has designated Aksa’s Long Term National Note AA (Trk) as Stable.” Aksa Akrilik's Long-Term International Foreign and Local Currency Notes and Appearances were determined to be BBBand Stabil,” which are the country’s ceiling. JCR Eurasia Rating emphasized in its written Ceremony. statement that Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. started its operations in Yalova in 1971 and has strong market power both in Turkey and in global markets. In the statement, Aksa's rank in the high-level investable company category has been explained as follows: The export leaders of the country that contributed to the economy were announced at the Traditional ITHİB Award Ceremony” hosted The company's strong market position, international trade network, dynamic and customer-reflected cost structure, low indebtedness, good by Istanbul Textile and Raw Materials Exporters’ Association (İTHİB). In the Platinum category, Aksa Akrilik was ranked first among the 42 debt service, R & D activities, strong corporate governance structure, prudent financial management, improved operational risk management and companies, and Akpa was the second-place recipient of the award. mitigation systems, legal compliance level, the diversified product range, predictable cash flows, DowAksa initiative and the noteworthy potential of new product lines are the basis of long-term national note which is defined as ‘AA (Trk) / Stable.’ JCR Eurasia Rating will keep monitoring the The awards were presented to Akkök Holding Board Member and Chief Executive Officer Ahmet C. Dördüncü and Akkök Holding Board working capital and liquidity structure, contribution of the ongoing capacity and renewal investments to the cash flows, the sales performance of Member and Vice Chairman Raif Ali Dinçkök. new product lines and to the borrowing profile, the market impact of substitute products and the long-term global developments in the acrylic market.” AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE AT AKSA G4 18-19-20-21-23-26 # fiberfortheworld P.22 Aksa acts with the principles of fairness, transparency, accountability and responsibility and develops its corporate governance performance steadily with its commitment to and compliance with these principles. AGAIN BURAYA STRATEJI CALISTAYI FOTOGRAFI BEKLIYORUZ. As Aksa Akrilik, we were the first company in Aiming to reach a fair company level by Aksa was selected as the In addition, stakeholders, non-compliant the Borsa Istanbul Corporate Index to receive the supporting financial success with corporate CORPORATE GOVERNANCE governance practices, Aksa is primarily Most Corporate Company of Turkey. RATING BY TKYD and ethically unfavorable conditions can be communicated to the Corporate Governance highest rating, leaving behind all the companies aiming to create sustainable value for its stakeholders. Aksa raised its Corporate Governance Yıl Sıra Committee and the Ethics Committee via an ethics line or e-mail. Akkök Group evaluated by the Corporate Governance In 2017 we focused on sustainable Rating Note from 95,98 to 96,32 in 2017 and won the title again at the 8th 2014 11 of Companies Trainings were held at the manager and director levels during the Association. growth as well as sustainable profitability reporting period to ensure the dissemination by connecting to the company’s vision Corporate Governance Awards organized 2015 3 of the Code of Business Ethics and to be model. In line with these goals, we added by the Corporate Governance Association innovation and openness to change to of Turkey. Aksa was awarded with the great honor, ahead of 50 companies in 2016 1 adopted by all group companies. Ethical Rules can be accessed at http://aksa.com/en/ We are honored to share the happiness our basic features. We disseminated our revised vision model to the lower levels the Borsa Istanbul Corporate Governance Index. The award given registered Aksa’s 2017 1 human-resources/ethic-management/ethicmanagement/i-401. of the Corporate Governance of the organization through effective communication channels. We followed successfull transactions in the scope of fairness, transparency, accountability and The Code of Business Ethics, prepared Award, with our employees, business the goals of our business and sustainability with effective control mechanisms. In order responsibility. The award stated that Aksa has the most fair management of the rights MISCONDUCT and ETHICS MANAGEMENT in 2017 and put into the electronic learning platform, is accessible to all of our employees. partners and shareholders which we to increase awareness of Aksa's vision and strategies in the workforce, we implemented of shareholders and stakeholders, the highest level of publicity and transparency activities, The Ethical Principles—the most important During the reporting period, misconduct once again gained by adding love Strategy Expansion Workshops under the trainings were repeated and employee leadership of senior management. By the the best practice of board structure and and its functioning, and the establishment of guide for harmonizing the company's corporate governance principles—serve as awareness was increased. and self-sacrifice to our work. end of September 2017, Aksa’s vision model, high goals, core values and basic features effective management and internal control a guide for developing a common mode of A risk assessment of abuse as procurement unit were re-communicated, reaching all experts mechanisms. behavior with Aksa's stakeholders. The Akkök was completed, and immediate actions were Group of Companies Code of Business Ethics, 1 and employees in the workshops completed. taken regarding the identified risks. In 2017, The company was informed about the Aksa Akrilik Corporate Governance Rating published in 2014, reflects the ethical approach 100% of the planned risks were resolved by projects that would meet the strategic Report can be accessed through the and corporate values of the group companies. taking action. objectives, and awareness was raised about corporate website www.saharating.com, The Akkök Ethics Line, which was created by the work and targets. In November 2017, Aksa Akrilik corporate website www.aksa. an independent third party to report violations In addition, gift acceptance and issuance # our General Manager shared the projects com and Public Disclosure Platform (KAP) of the Code of Business Ethics, actively serves regulations were published and shared with all that will achieve our strategic goals with the www.kap.org.tr. Aksa’s stakeholders. stakeholders to support our business ethics. representative mission. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE AT AKSA G4 18-19-20-21-23-24-25-26-27 # fiberfortheworld P.23 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT OUR MATERIAL PRIORITIES Aksa’s product reach extends to many parts of the world, resulting in a wide range of social, environmental and economic impact. The company seeks to generate value for all stakeholders by making this impact measurably positive, and views this task as central to pioneering sustainable operational geography. Aksa’s history of involvement with Akkök Group's sustainability practices CONTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS is exemplary in both the sector and Turkey in general, and this provides valuable corporate experience for the TO SOCIETY company. RAW MATERIAL PROCUREMENT EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS IMPROVEMENT OF OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Making use of the stakeholder feedback collected over PROCESS AND PRODUCT WORKING CONDITIONS years with proven communication mechanisms has served INNOVATION as the center of Aksa’s sustainability policies and practices, ENSURING PRODUCT SAFETY EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT CUSTOMER INFORMATION allowing the generation of sustainability priorities, and PRESERVATION short, medium and long-term sustainability targets. REGARDING PRODUCTS EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION OF SUSTAINABLE In Aksa, the General Manager is responsible for the COMPETITIVENESS POSITION ENERGY MANAGEMENT LEGAL COMPLIANCE/ financial and operational performance of the company, OPEN DOOR PRACTICES EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT COMPLIANCE QUALITY AND SAFETY as well as the sustainability performance of the Board of EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT WITH INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Directors. Sustainability issues spread from the upper level UNIVERSITY INCORPORATION OF QUALIFIED (AIRBORNE EMISSIONS – CHEMICAL INDUSTRY REGULATIONS to the lower level bi-directionally; performance results CORPORATE RISK MANAGEMENT in these areas are controlled by supervision mechanisms COLLABORATIONS WORKFORCE BY AKSA GHG/OTHER GASES) AND AGREEMENTS and are sent back to the upper levels with reporting applications. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HUMAN AND EMPLOYEE The vision model, company strategies and stakeholder LOCAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT WATER MANAGEMENT CONTRIBUTION CUSTOMER SATISFACTION feedback especially play an important role in determining COLLABORATIONS TO EDUCATION OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH Aksa's sustainability priorities. WASTE MANAGEMENT AND SAFETY COLLABORATIONS WITH NGO'S Policy, implementation, target and performance results for Aksa's priority sustainability issues -Sustainable Operations, Employees, Environment and Societal CONTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Contributionwere and are presented to stakeholders. During the reporting period, stakeholder views were TO SOCIETY collected via one-on-one interviews with each division managers and stakeholders' opinions are transmitted . At VALUE CHAIN PRIORITIES the same time, priorities were highlighted in the strategic planning workshop with executive management. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4 18-19-20-21-23-26 # fiberfortheworld P.24 OUR R&D CENTER IS REGISTERED Aksa was given the R & D Center Certificate by the Ministry of Technology. In Aksa Akrilik R & D Center, which is registered as the 432nd R & D Center in operation, new areas of use for acrylic fiber and new product R & D researches are being carried out. Aksa aims to grow new products and strategic added value product, can be used especially the investment period, production activities elastics due to its high strength, no spinning alliances by finding new uses for acrylic fiber in protective work clothes, the plastic industry have started with a capacity of 1,000 tons per the yarn, no felting shrinkange and a long in the sector, which is the centerpiece of the and artificial hair production. year. The supply of industrial scale products product life. Due to the silky softness of the new vision model developed in 2014 and started in 2017. Transactions on market filament yarn and its hand feeling, demand is reviewed in 2017. Unique technical knowledge R & D studies for the production of modacrylics requests are planned in 2018. high, especially in the woven carpet sector. At gained via new product development and have been completed. In the process of the Domotex Germany and Iran carpet fairs, R&D activity plays a significant role in creating modacrylic investment, the creation of a new According to the demand from customers in booths were produced and presented with new business areas. In addition, Aksa aims technology unique to Aksa using existing the coming period, investment with a capacity Acrylusion, and positive feedback was received. to achieve these goals by focusing on new production methods from Aksa's own of 10 thousand tons per year is planned to be investments and sustainability. engineers was the greatest factor driving passed on. In this context, Aksa aims to be the In order to create new uses for filament yarn, success in production. This new technology leading company in the world in modacrylic Aksa continues to work on tricolor, hand knit PRODUCTION, NEW PRODUCT designed by Aksa within the scope of the fiber production as it is already the leader in and sewing thread as well as outdoor awnings DEVELOPMENT AND R&D modacrylic project enabled the production acrylic fiber. and carpet. ACTIVITIES of the desired quality and efficiency of the product. In parallel, efforts are being made In addition to creating new areas of use for Modacrylic Continuing its investments in new product to make the environment and ecological life more harmonious. acrylic fiber, efforts to differentiate acrylic continue successfully. Aksa Akrilik Central Laboratory was policies, Aksa makes a distinguished name for itself with its new product modacrylic, which The product was also included in the scope Acrylusion registered as an accredited institution has a high-grade flame retardance. Modacrylic of the incentive through evaluation by the Acrylusion is very assertive product with fiber can be produced by a limited number of Ministry of Economy in the strategic product advantages, including ease of cleaning, even by the Turkish Accreditation Agency companies in the world. Modacrylics, a high category. After the successful completion of with bleach, due to its smoothness, delays in (TÜRKAK) on August 8, 2017, according to TS EN ISO / IEC AK S A A krilik R&D Center 17025: 2012 standard. We aim to ensure the continuity of LABORAT0RY SPACE (M 2) R & D EXPERTS PROJECTS accreditation and expand 2016-2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 the scope of analysis 4 618 876 39 41 11 20 every year. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4 18-19-20-21-23-26 # fiberfortheworld P.25 With the new turbine we commissioned at the end of 2017, we will continue to provide safe energy. ENERGY PRODUCTION As a main working principle, Aksa’s power 2018 will be the year of transformation for plants make use of new, environmentallyenergy production for Aksa. The inefficient friendly technologies. Flue gas emission values turbines with high production costs have of the mentioned plants and ESP (electrostatic Transformation in precipitator), SCR (selective catalytic reduction) been deactivated while we invested in and commissioned a new turbine as of 2017. and FGD (Flue-gas desulfurization) units are energy Thanks to the projects developed in the coalcontinuously monitored by the Provincial fired power plant and operational excellence, Directorate of Environment and Urbanism • The inefficient turbines with the power plants operated in the most continiously 24/7 via an online emissionhigh production costs have been economical and efficient ways, resulting in monitoring systems. deactivated. significant reductions in energy production costs. Aksa Power Plant has Turkey's first and • The power plants operated in the only fully enclosed coal storage silos and most economical and efficient ways. underground coal conveyor systems. Thanks to After the commissioning of the completed these closed systems, problems such as dusting • Significant reductions in energy new turbine investment, we estimate that and flying are prevented. The whole system production costs achieved. total electricity production will increase by is closed until the cargo vessels used in the around 15% without any increase in fuel plant are transported to the power plant and consumption. transferred to ash silo transport vehicles. As a world brand, Aksa requires electrical and steam energy in the same place for its New turbine production phase. For this reason, in-plant energy production is seen as the most investment suitable method instead of using remotelyAfter the commissioning of the supplied electricity. In addition to other new completed new turbine investment, investments, Aksa constantly invests in energy, based on its need for high-quality and costwe estimate that total electricity effective energy sources. In this context, the production will increase by around existing natural gas power plant and the 15% without any increase in fuel new cogeneration type Aksa Power Plant are consumption. capable of producing 145 MW of electricity and process steam at the same time. Aksa also supplies energy to Akkök Group companies DowAksa and Ak-Kim, both located in Yalova. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4 18-19-20-21-23-24-25-26-27 # fiberfortheworld P.26 Aksa Customer Services Unit takes the necessary actions regarding technical service support in cooperation with the customer by evaluating product requests and complaints with the focus of customer proximity. MARKETING AND SALES given by the foreign exchange rates also had Iranian markets. In addition, Chinese producers Aksa Customer Services Unit takes the a positive impact on the knitwear demand have begun aggressive export sales as a result necessary actions regarding technical service The domestic market began in 2017 with the uncertainty of the implications of significant coming from the export markets. Knitwear sector continues to be positive for the year of the shrinking demand. support in cooperation with the customer by evaluating product requests and complaints 73 technical internal and external political and economic 2018. In the carpet sector, especially in the US and European markets experienced losses with the focus of customer proximity. In this visits were domestic market acrylic carpet demand, in production in 2017 compared to previous developments experienced in the previous year. At the beginning of the year, the most positive expectations at the beginning of the years, and reduced acrylic fiber demand. In context, a total of 73 technical visits were realized in 2017. Within the scope of the realized in positive situation for the sector was that year were not met. Carpet producers have 2017, Iran was the market that showed an support given to improve the processes of the 2017. there were product claims all over the supply turned their production to European and US increase in demand in the sector. The demand customers, 31 consultancy work was carried chain. The need for financing was met with markets where demand is more vigorous and triggered by the increase in carpet production out between 2012-2017. the application of the Credit Guarantee payment timelines and collateral systems are led to an increase in both acrylic fiber imports Fund. These two important issues have laid healthier. This led to a decrease in acrylic yarn and acrylic yarn imports in this country, as the The Customer Satisfaction survey, in which the groundwork for the high demand from demand on the carpet. On the other hand, the Iranian acrylic fiber producer could not operate customers' satisfaction levels are determined, customers. On the raw material side, the demand for carpet yarn on the Iranian market its facility. But this vitality has decreased in as well as technical services provided could not be met by Iranian producers in terms the shadow of the economic problems in expected supply shortfall towards the end of the first quarter was influential in the first few of quality and quantity, and the market in the particular and the political consequences of to customers, is conducted through an independent survey agency. The level of 31 consultancy months of the year, and this was reflected in domestic market has provided an alternative them in the last quarter of the year. Aksa, in a year where Turkey Iran domestic markets satisfaction and feedback obtained are actively works were fiber prices, another factor affecting demand. demand to the producers of carpet yarns. As As of February, the demand for domestic we enter 2018, the carpet weaving sector is not were live, was able to close the year strongly evaluated and actions are taken. An approach is being developed that involves the client in carried out demand has increased considerably. This situation was normal in the middle of the year very positive because of these developments and the market expansion of the carpet of thanks to ; good service capability, close proximity to the market, product quality and complaint management. During the reporting between due to the end of the increase trend on the competing fiber producers. sales policies. period, no complaint was received regarding violation of customer information privacy. 2012-2017. raw material side and seasonal effects. The rush of raw materials at the end of the third quarter World markets in 2017; In the Far East, OUR CUSTOMERS especially in the Chinese market, demand for The routine customer visit plan was revised to and its reflection on the prices, the demand acrylic fiber started alive and maintained a cover the entire customer portfolio. Product flared up at the beginning of the last quarter Customer orientation is among the basic positive outlook until mid-year. In the second development and quality improvement and the year was completed with these effects. values that determine the position of Aksa. For half of the year, price fluctuations in the Far projects are continuing to meet the customer this reason, reaching customers with products demands reported in the survey. Looking at the sub-sectors, the knitwear sector East markets and shrinking demand led the and services that will meet demand and was very lively on the demand side of 2017. factories in acrylic fiber production to reduce expectations is a high priority. It is very crucial Our customers who produce yarn for the capacity and towards the end of the year they for Aksa to receive customer feedback to meet knitwear sector have worked full-capacity all entered into serious price competition among this expectation, to constantly communicate year long. Here, the demand in the domestic themselves. China's anti-dumping bariers led with customers, and to develop products and retail sector was effective. The advantage Far Eastern manufacturers to Turkey and to services for the feedback received. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4 18-19-23-24-25-26-27 # fiberfortheworld P.27 AKSA'S INTERNATIONAL PROMOTION RAID Aksa exhibited Acryluna and Acrylusion products by participating in Aksa participated in the 9th International Carpet Fair held in Tehran the Domotex 2018 Carpet and Floor Coatings Fair held in Hannover, (FMCEX 2017) and received attention with its Acryluna and Acrylusion Germany between 12-15 January 2018. products. We have promoted carpets made of Acryluna and Acrylusion in our booths where they received intense interest from, both carpet manufacturing Didem Tunçbilek, Marketing, Sales and New Business Development Manager (Technical Fibers), evaluated FMCEX Carpet Fair in Iran: “As Aksa companies and exhibition visitors. Aksa General Manager Cengiz Taş participated in the exhibition and bilateral negotiations with the leading Akrilik, we participated in the FMCEX Carpet Fair for the first time. At the FMCEX carpet fair, we have received great interest with Acryluna and our companies in the world while the carpet sector trends were followed closely. Acryluna and Acrylusion acrylic fiber products were presented in detail new product Acrylusion. While we had a chance to meet face to face with our existing customers, we also had the opportunity to introduce our to exhibitors. Silk carpets produced by Aksa's newly developed acrylic filament product, Acrylusion, became a focus of attention. products and Aksa to our potential customers. Iran is the world's third-largest market after Turkey in the acrylic sector. Thus, it was very beneficial for us to take part in the Iran fair and to meet face to face with our customers.” AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4 18-19 # fiberfortheworld P.28 AKSA TRANSFORMS DIGITALLY Today, digitalization is the most important global development, affecting every field and individual in this day and age. With internet access and the use of smart devices, it has become crucial to provide quick access anywhere to make changes in the way traditional business does. At Aksa, we are prioritizing aligning with today's trends and providing better service to our customers by closely monitoring the technological applications and innovations brought by digitalization and integrating them into internal processes, production and products. DIGITAL CUSTOMER PLATFORM: BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE (BI) AKSA INFORMATION SECURITY IDEA FORM AKSAGO (Global Orders) APPLICATION PORTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The value chain is a vital source of data flow for While digitalization facilitates our lives and the way Aksa put an Idea Form application in the practice Launched in 2018, our project aims to reach products every step in the chain, as well as for potential new we do business in better ways, the management of in the direction of R & D center strategy. Ideas for and services from simpler, faster and accessible channels new business development and new product areas initiatives and solutions to problems. In 2017, the BI issues related to the protection and security of the depending on the use of internet access and smart portal, which was implemented for the procurement data becomes one of the most important matters. can be systematically assessed, and applications devices. You can now access the web application from function, made instant evaluations in innumerable Taking precautions against all risks to prevent safe made to prioritize in line with company needs can the Aksa website as well as the mobile application and continuous data flows during its processes. As a and uninterrupted service, especially cyber threats, be followed more easily and effectively. In order to result, many improvements have been made in the and to provide customer information security and support employees who want to increase their interest from the IOS and Android markets. procurement process. confidentiality is of great importance both for our and share ideas, Idea Form was introduced in an stakeholders and for us. In this context, Aksa provided eBA (Electronic Document Flow) system and digital ISO 27001 Information Security Management System transition process completed. All ideas shared with activities, which started as a pilot phase in customer digital conversion were made available to corporate services in 2015, to ensure customer confidentiality memory. and information security. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS G4 15-18-19-26 # fiberfortheworld P.29 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBLE MANUFACTURING Internalizing responsible supply chain Subcontractor Management management, Aksa aims to implement AKSA applies both legal and voluntary supplier selection and evaluation practices Subcontractor Responsible, thanks to the changes in organisational structure, practices and standards effectively in all serves as an operational structure to ensure that contractors and subcontractors are based on social and environmental processes. Based on changing market criteria, as well as financial criteria, and to regularly audited and monitored. conditions and customer-focused approach, promote sustainability in the value chain. it follows innovation in technology Communication, supervision and performance Subcontractor Responsible, working in coordination with the HR, Legal, HSE and and market, producing a competitive Administrative Affairs departments, ensures that the employees of subcontractors evaluation applications are carried out in line environment, high efficiency, superior quality with the concept of supply chain management work in healthy, safe and human dignified establishments via Subcontractor and low energy consumption, all without Management System. on which continuous communication is based compromising occupational health and and mutual development is carried out. safety. It applies the operational excellence Aksa’s business culture is exemplary for the companies with which it work and approach in all processes in order to ensure implementation of the culture is of great importance. Aiming to be institutionalized Aksa takes into account issues such as the the continuity of the value it creates with selection of new suppliers, the environment by helping companies and their employees in Aksa’s network to develop in every its products and services. It carries out direction, we are working with our new sub-employer management approach and OHS policies, ethical values and its operations by using and observing employee rights in the evaluation process started in the past season. international standards. of existing suppliers. It is expected that the compliance and quality certifications of the Significant progress has been made in OHS index scoring, instant audits, planned Product Safety audits, and existing occupational health and safety practices implemented for two suppliers whose policies and approaches are Understanding customer and market investigated are questioned and operations years. In the sub-employer management system, which is monitored from the needs forms the basis of Aksa's business partner online platform and whose implementation started in 2016, legal rights are are carried out according to OHS principles style. Aksa always develops new and better and working hours. The Supplier Performance guaranteed. products to add value to its customers and Evaluation System, which is implemented the environment. Efforts are being made to on an annual basis, ensures that the basic In addition, as of 2018, companies are encouraged to establish related management ensure that products are produced and used systems on the basis of international standards by establishing policies on quality, competence areas of existing suppliers are safely for the entire value chain throughout identified, developed and evaluated for their environment and occupational health and safety in the name of institutionalization. the life cycle. With this understanding, Aksa annual performance. carries out its operations in compliance with international standards for product .. LOCAL CONTRIBUTION quality, environment and human safety. passing the Category 1 conformity tests. By closely following local and international With this application, the production of Aksa Our Management System Certificates regulations (CLP, REACh, Ca Prop. 65, ETAD, products without harming human health Aiming to make the area of indirect economic ZDHC, INDITEX, etc.), human health and and environment is guaranteed by inspection ISO 9001 Quality Management System impact positive in procurement, Aksa .. environmentally friendly working perception and certification. contributes to the level of prosperity of local is being implemented throughout the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System people by prioritizing suppliers in the Yalova supply chain from suppliers to customers. On the other hand, in order to determine region where they operate. During the During the product development the limits of the chemicals to human health OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System reporting period, Yalova local suppliers' TL.. process, compliance with the human and and the environment, applications in Europe based procurement rate for all active domestic environmental health regulations is actively and Turkey are being closely monitored Reporting of ISO 14064-1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions suppliers was 44%. and proactively pursued. In this direction, via Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation OEKO-TEX® Standard 100, an independent and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) and ISO 50001 Energy Management System As of 2017 technical drawings made within the .. inspection and certification system covering customers' demands are answered. scope of our processes are now supplied from all production stages of textile products, has ISO 31000 Risk Management System local sources. Local suppliers are also preferred in machinery manufacturing, which is an been implemented by Aksa since 1995. essential item in our investments with new The products are renewed every year by Local contribution ISO 27001 Information Security Management System local collaborations. ISO 14046 Water Footprint Management System During the reporting period, Yalova local suppliers' TL-based procurement http://aksa.com/tr/kurumsal/sertifikalar/sertifikalar/i-5 rate for all active domestic suppliers was 43%. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE # fiberfortheworld P.30 The life cycle of our products is designed to be compatible with the life cycle of our world. Products manufactured and used safely for our employees, customers, society and the environment bear the sign of Aksa. We know that we can maintain the world as During the reporting period, USD 1.2 million In 2017, 85% of total water consumption was a livable place for future generations, given environmental protection expenditure and handled by our Reverse Osmosis (RO) facility. the that we can minimize our environmental impact, implement environmental friendly investment was realized. It is crucial to educate our employees about the related subjects This contributed to the region's existing water resources and its balance. Thanks to common ISO 14046 processes, and create awareness in the entire and processes in order to raise awareness treatment service we received, 2,392,690 m3 first supply chain. We are rational in the use of resources and every effort is made with respect about environmental issues and to achieve better performance. In this context, during waste water was treated in accordance with regulations. We have been awarded ISO 14046 Water Footprint to the environment. We employ a transparent approach toward our stakeholders regarding the reporting period, our employees were provided with 2,350 hours of environmental As part of the infrastructure project, which Standard Certificate thanks to sustainable water in sector our health, safety and environmental performance. education. In addition, training was provided to employees of the contractor companies. started in 2016 and is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2018, the prevention management activities we conducted in the reporting period. Aksa Akrilik became the first company to receive of soil pollution and protection of the In all business processes within Aksa, the Water Management environment at the same time as water this certificate in the chemical and textile sectors. Environmental Management Unit is Taking necessary precaution to ensure management is aimed. All subterranean responsible for the environmental impact efficient use of and sustainability of natural lines were converted into overhead lines, monitoring, conservation and efficient use resources is of special importance for the entire and possible accidental conditions may now of natural resources. Subjects covered by this world. Water is one of the most essential be detected instantly to avoid potential In 2017, we first outlined our inventory in detail, based on our water resources in our own borders. Apart from the use of responsibility are constantly monitored by natural resources, and water management is environmental pollution. general dam water in Aksa, there is water production from RO plant and sea. Other than its own water use, Aksa provides the relevant unit; weekly directorships and becoming more and more critically substantial water service to its sister organizations. Again, we use water in different forms such as steam and gives it as a service, as well. directorates meetings, and quarterly meetings due to the impact of climate change. Waste Management In this process, our inventory within the Aksa borders was formulated in the most accurate manner and confirmed by on-site of the Chief Executive Officer, effectively According to our sustainable production As a manufacturing company, Aksa operates inspection by BSI company. supervised by senior management. In philosophy, we have adopted a holistic water with the awareness that processes producing addition, Human Resources, Procurement and management approach that encompasses waste must be managed with precision. Corporate Development Director is responsible diversity of water resources, efficient Waste is strictly managed according to from system requirements and policy within consumption of water, and wastewater regulation. Reduction of wastes at source, and the scope of Integrated Management character issues given to the recipient. In separate collection and disposal according to Systems . this context, we kept devoting our efforts type of waste are carried out in accordance to improve the performance of our Reverse with legislation. Aksa manages its operations and Osmosis and YALKİM Common Treatment environmental performance in full compliance Plants in 2017, which were commissioned in with laws and regulations, consistently seeking 2015 for the sake of sustainable growth. to go beyond minimum legal requirements. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE # fiberfortheworld P.31 Processes are improved via projects executed during the year in order to save energy by more efficient utilization. Energy Efficiency And Climate Change Energy efficiency projects in the reporting where it operates. It plans its activities together In The Ecosystem Report, prepared together In order to ensure operational sustainability, period provided energy savings of 84,329 GJ with environmental risk analyzes, starting from with Hacettepe University, an Aksa in 2016, it uninterrupted energy supply and energy thermal energy with %52 more productiviy the investment decision stage. This approach, was reported that there would be no negative management has special significance for Aksa. and 9,747 GJ electric energy with %92 more which has been put into effect in the impact on the ecosystem if Aksa continued Systematic energy management oversees productiviy. Due to these savings, we achieved investment stage, is supported by measures its sensitive work to protect the area while procurement, efficiency, climate change, and 10,562 tons of CO2 reduction. to reduce environmental risks, environmental maintaining operations. The study is planned other environmental impacts. We provide protection studies and environmental to be reviewed in certain periods regarding consistent energy production for our subsidiaries According to the regulation, the source mitigation practices. new investments plans. in the same region, and supply excess energy combustion emissions of our energy production generated to the electricity market. facilities are monitored on-line by 24/7 ÇŞİM and ÇŞB with Continuous Emission Measurement We evaluate climate change in the context Systems. Thanks to the projects carried out of risks and opportunities, and continue our throughout the year and the continuous operations according to legal and self-imposed monitoring provided, the relevant emissions regulations. Our greenhouse gas emissions values were well below regulation targets. have been documented with comprehensive Our greenhouse gas emissions were added assurance under ISO 14064-1 this year to the online system of the Ministry of Green IT Applications Green Building Certificate (LEED-GOLD) 93% of the waste and our ISO 50001 Energy Management Environment and Urbanization this year as part System documentation has been successfully of our legal obligation to the “Greenhouse Gas In 2017, approximately 56,000 We received the LEED-GOLD Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design is considered for completed. Monitoring Plan and audit conducted by the transactions are processed via eBA Green Building Certificate in 2017 for our new headquarters, to which we moved recycle and as Ministry was completed successfully. new developed applications (e.g. last year. raw material It is also fundemental to use energy efficiently, despite the supply of continuous energy for Biodiversity Project Management, Incoming / contribution in Outgoing Documents, Meeting Notes, other sectors. the continuity of our operations. Processes are Aksa is running its operations with an Announcements, Unit Work Permits, improved via projects executed during the approach that takes into account the possible Work Tracking Systems) via Electronic working year in order to save energy by using energy more efficiently. effects on species and people living in the area Document Stream and time and Waste Management paper savings were realized. As a manufacturing company, CO2 Reduction Aksa conducts its operations with the awareness that the waste generated from the processes Within reporting period, we achieved 10,562 tons should be managed with of CO2 reduction. precision. The resulting effluents are managed in line with the waste management hierarchy. Energy Efficiency Reduction of waste at the source, separate collection and disposal Energy efficiency projects in the reporting period according to the nature of the provided energy savings of 84,329 GJ thermal energy waste is provided in line with the with %52 more productiviy and 9,747 GJ electric legislation. energy with %92 more productiviy. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO THE EMPLOYEES G4 11-27 # fiberfortheworld P.32 Aksa's basic human resources policy; is to bring together accountable, creative, participating, self-confident, enthusiastic and happy employees to serve the Company's main goals. Practices shaped by this policy and investment in human resources support Aksa's core strategies and facilitates the achievement of business targets. The Human Resources Department, in its We base our human resources practices practices developed for 2017 and longterm targets, focused on improving talent on respect for human rights. Aksa believes that it is talented, creative, attentive and Discipline Ordinance “Great Place To Work in 2017 management, training and development, happy employees who will carry the global Disciplinary Regulation was revised according to 12 project groups were formed to fulfill the actions expected to improve our workplace after the survey conducted in leadership development, employee business success forward. Aksa knows that its’ current legislation and personnel regulations, Ethics 2015 within the scope of our “Great Place to Work” Project. The activities of the groups were completed in 2017. 92 commitment, spreading ethical values, contributions to employees’ careers will impact Committee and Disciplinary Committee Bylaws were actions, including large-scale projects and applications, were carried out. In this framework; several skills recognition performance management system, improving its business success directly. Aksa uses systems practices were developed such as rotation for experts and higher positions, career maps for operational level, wage and layer system and shift order, and that ensure that all employees do the right job arranged. Disciplinary Process which was followed determination of critical roles, extension of ideal employee concept, tree-planting and honorary certificate distribution improvement in operational efficiency. at the right time, develop their knowledge in the paper environment is computerized within for employees on their birthdays. and skills as they need, and receive constructive the scope of Corporate Memory efforts. All the With our belief in promoting leadership from and timely feedback on their performance. duties and disciplinary history of the employee In order to see the effectiveness of the actions taken and the point we have reached, we are planning to repeat our within, eight of our existing employees were With effective talent management practices, referred to the disciplinary committee, and if any, survey in 2018 with Great Place to Work® Turkey which is an independent institution. promoted to managerial roles in the next future leaders are selected among employees. the old penalties, the disciplinary meeting’s minutes level in 2017 in line with our organizational Through various internal communication and the necessary approvals for the decision are all needs. 25 of our employees were found to be practices, employee participation is reinforced, Rotation Career Maps computerized. proficient for a higher level expertize position, while 20 operators were promoted to senior efforts are made to increase employee commitment and all measures are taken to 12 PROJECT GROUPS operator as a result of Evaluation Center provide a healthy and safe work environment. practices. 11 employees at or above expert level and 25 employees at operational level have been reassigned to another department Investment in Technology: with new duties. Effective January 2018, 19 We Are Growing Oracle HCM employees will be promoted to the managerial Skills Management Recognition roles or will rise in management ranks. Aksa Akrilik became the first company in Turkey Among the aggregate number of employees that reached 1.307, that installed Oracle Cloud HCM module. 92 ACTION In our process of employee selection in line The Oracle Cloud system was introduced in with our aim at placing right people for the 140 people joined the Aksa Family in 2017, 1 in executive level, 22 in 2017 to track Human Resources systems more right jobs, we focused on PR efforts and effectively from start to end in electronic means continued to visit universities in 2017. 11 expert and engineer level, and 117 in operational level. Our Filament and HR processes started to work interactively in student internships were provided within our and Modacrylic investments have a single integrated system. Core HR, Performance Long-Term Internship Program. Two successful candidates joined us from new graduate played a role in this increase. Management System and Talent Management process we participated through Akkök. modules were actively used during this period. The infrastructure studies of the Recruitment and Training modules have been completed. WE BELIEVE IN GROWING THE LEADERS WE SEEK FROM WITHIN THE COMPANY. WE PREPARE OUR EMPLOYEES WHO SERVE AKSA, TO FUTURE SUCCESS. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO THE EMPLOYEES # fiberfortheworld P.33 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND SKILLS MANAGEMENT At Aksa, in line with strategic business objectives, utmost importance is given to attract qualified workforce to the company; The performance of skills management is subject to continuous improvement with effective performance appraisal, employee development and career management practices. In line with the great importance we give to the Skills Management process, the competencies and development areas of our employees are determined by modern human resources methods, support is provided for continuous improvement, and activities are underway to guide the career development of employees. Training portal In-house rotation Mentoring program Career maps Employee development trainings The competencies and development A decision was made to establish The Mentoring Program was The talent management process in In order to ensure continuous improvement of our employees; areas of our employees are a system that supports intralaunched for staff at manager or the operational level, which started in experts and above level employees have prepared plans for determined by modern human company mobility, believing that above levels, in order to sustain 2016 with the creation of career maps improvement in line with development needs and the feedback of resources methods, support is experiencing different positions will commitment of employees and in which career paths are mentioned, their managers. In 2017, 36 man * hours of training was organized provided to ensure continuous make a significant contribution to also that the corporate culture is continued in this period. Transition in line with our organizational needs, taking into account the improvement and activities are going both individual and professional conveyed to the future leaders of criteria for the roads in career maps orientation, development plans, legislative requirements and on to guide career development development. A rotation system was the company. The program supports were determined and published in professional development needs. of our employees. In 2017, the set up in 2017 for the development employees' personal and professional 2017 and the system was transparent. feedbacks from 360 degrees of best practices for assigning development and aims to contribute The-counter backup plan applied evaluation process were completed different positions within the to their success. In this context, in specialist annd above levels was and evaluation center applications Company and for evaluating the mentor and mentee trainings were expanded to operational level In continued. Following the trainings potentials of experts and employees. realized. Mentors consist of; general 2017. For this level, the backup roles Leader development of the Project Management System, With this; it was aimed to enrich the manager, directors and directors, of the critical roles were established Energy Management System, and the development plans of the 24 of our managers joined in the Effective Feedback, 34 first level jobs with different viewpoints, to and mentees consist of; managers Information Security Management backups were prepared. managers joined in the Multidimensional Leadership Training, 2 discover different team formations, and specialists. Within the scope System and Business Ethics Principles, of our managers started the Turquality Manager Development to make the organization more of mentor-mentee and coaching the content of the Environmental Program. In addition to these, Akkök's Executive Development dynamic, agile and sustainable, to applications, a 1-year mentorLegislation Training which is required Program, Boomerang-HR Cap Manager, Winning Talent Begins increase the job satisfaction and mentee program was completed by law from our employees to be with an Interview, Leading at Confidence, Working at Confidence, motivation of the employees and between our Mentors who consists completed every year, was prepared Managing Today's Business and participating in Akkök Orientation to keep the talents by creating of Directors and Supervisors and 15 in the electronic learning platform programs career opportunities within the Mentees from Executive and Expert and offered to our employees’ access organization. levels in 2017. in 2017. Aksa Institute program The Aksa Institute program, which consists of course titles determined by the departments, was designed to enable our employees who work in specialist positions and above to learn about processes outside their departments. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO THE EMPLOYEES G4 11-27 # fiberfortheworld P.34 WORKING LIFE IN AKSA One of our main corporate values is to provide an honorable working environment for our employees. In our entire organization, human resources processes are introduced that avoid discrimination, respect employees’ rights, and adhere to the principles of global human rights. It is essential for us to spread this approach throughout our value chain and we are working on this direction. In Aksa, from recruitment and performance evaluations to career management practices, we are acting in light of these values; without discriminating against gender or race, we recruit only on grounds to the requirements of the position. In our recruitment policies, we treat all our potential employees equally, regardless of age, physical disability, race, ethnicity, gender, religion, belief, sexual orientation. We are placing our disabled workers to accommodate their particular needs and are aiding the socio-economic development of the region where we conduct our operations with our local employment policy. Journey From Me to Us Aksa Culture and Internal Communication Project University-Industry Cooperation Employee meetings were held to increase the Aksa Culture and Internal Communication Project was launched in 2017 to determine Our employer brand Myth or Reality was created within Akkök Holding, and while communication of our employees with Human the elements of our culture and to strengthen our interaction and communication with strengthening our values internally we also began to spread externally. The Akkök Group Resources. An activity of 14 sessions involving all our employees in line with the dynamics of our culture. The short-term aim of the project participated in various university activities to increase the level of recognition and awareness of our employees named Our Trip to Turkey was is to determine the essential elements of the existing and desired Aksa culture, and to the sector and its companies. In the process of recruitment and placement in 2017; university visits organized, in order to support departmental and determine Aksa's promise to employees as an employer and to set internal communication were held to gain candidates to carry our company into the future who have the knowledge, inter-departmental communication, cooperation and standards by measuring the perception of employees at different levels, and examining skills, experience and competencies required by the job and position, in line with our corporate team work. While our employees spent pleasant time the current practices that make up the workplace culture; To carry out studies aiming culture and values.. together all day in outdoor activities, they also shared to strengthen internal communication and to ensure the processes and practices of the the enthusiasm of joint success. Human Resources send messages in line with our culture and employer's promise. To this end, over 100 documents have been reviewed which reflect the inner workings and practices regarding employees. In order to determine the Aksa culture perception of AksaGlossaryofTerms ,allthetermsyouarelookingforarehere! our employees and how to improve our communication, 16 one-on-one interviews were held. With 9 focus group activities, 174 employees were gathered together including Aksa has completed the dictionary project which was started to contribute Executive handbook 13 managers, 25 executives, 30 experts and 106 operations personnel. The long-term and accelerate the adaptation process of newcomers to the business. objective of the project is, to spread the cultural elements which will contribute to Aksa’s The Aksa Glossary , which was created to enable new employees to easily We created an Executive Handbook, to ensure access and learn key terms used in business processes, contributes to strategic goals, to improve internal communication, to raise ownership, loyalty and that managers get quick answers to frequently the creation of corporate memory. The Glossary of Terms is also employee motivation by focusing on employee experience, to promote of Aksa as an asked questions, to standardize practices across of great importance in serving to form a common language ideal employer brand by turning employees to our brand representatives, to strengthen departments, to guide our colleagues in a standard within the company. Employees can add new terms corporate reputation and its attractiveness, to retain talent and improve access to highly way, and to guide our new managers. whenever they want to the glossary in which 800 qualified candidates. terms were already entered in the first phase. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO THE EMPLOYEES # fiberfortheworld P.35 STARS OF AKKÖK RECEIVED SUCCESSFUL TRAINING FROM LONG TERM INTERNSHIP THEIR AWARDS AKT IN HARSH WEATHER PROGRAM” IN AKSA STARTED Award in Operational Excellence to Aksa team Aksa Rescue Team (AKT) successfully Within the scope of the Long Term Internship at Stars of Akkök Award Process. completed team coordination, durability and Program, 11 students have successfully completed development training in nature despite the the exam and interview process among candidates harsh weather conditions. applying to the stands established at universities. The Aksa team deserved to receive appreciate achievements, to prioritize Aksa Rescue Team (AKT) conducted Governorship Provincial Disaster and The program, which provides the Süzen, Anıl Devrimsel, Türker Ertürk started an award in the area of Operational exemplary competencies and behaviors, team coordination, durability and Emergency Directorate (AFAD). The AKT opportunity for Aksa employees to better his internship trainings. In addition, Nazlı Excellence In the Stars of Akkök Award to increase internal and inter-company development training in nature between members, who come together once a understand future colleagues and to Altunbulak, Dilek Güneş, Gözde Işık and Process, which took place in the second solidarity, to increase employee loyalty, 28-30 September 2017. Education was year to improve the physical and mental make better evaluations, is being carried Tarık Çevik were placed as trainees. year of 2017. Stars of Akkök Awards are motivation and productivity, to uncover successfully completed in Altınova endurance of their members, to form a out with İşkur's Occupational Training established in order to recognize and and disseminate best practices. Geyikdere Çamlık zone despite harsh team spirit and to keep alive, are trained Program . Following the OHS trainings weather conditions with the support for team co-ordination, endurance and held on June 19, Recep Buğra Mert, Ali and participation of Yalova and Bursa development in nature conditions. Cem Bulut, Nur Saka, Kubra Dağcı, Taner AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO THE EMPLOYEES G4 11-27 # fiberfortheworld P.36 HUMAN RESOURCES CONTINUE TO MEET STUDENTS Aksa Akrilik continues to visit universities in order to acquire Aksa Akrilik welcomes hundreds of students from various different candidates who will carry the company to the future. educational institutions and various trainings who want to learn about production processes. Aksa Akrilik, along with other group companies under Akkök Holding roof, participated in the Human Resources Summit in Istanbul Technical The guests who have the opportunity to closely monitor the production processes during the visits according to the departments where the students University (ITU) Ayazağa Campus on February 21-22, the Middle East Technical University (METU) Career Fair held at Culture and Congress Center on are educated and according to special requests, can also get information about the issues that they are curious about from Aksa employees. The March 2-3, Yıldız Technical University Career Panel organized by Yıldız Management Club on March 28th and finally P & R Days Career Fair organized visit program continues with Aksa presentation and field trip. In the field, eye unit, laboratories, fiber drawing unit and textile fields can be visited. by Bogaziçi University Operations Research Club on April 3rd. Aksa Human Resources team, which met students at these organizations, received job Depending on the area of interest of the program, which can be shaped according to the student profile, visits to different sections such as power and internship applications while promoting the company. plant and port can also be added. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO THE EMPLOYEES # fiberfortheworld P.37 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY In Aksa, it is our primary responsibility to create a healthy and safe working environment for our employees. Aksa conducts its activities regarding health of Regulation 30127 dated 18 July 2017 on the and safety under the OSH Management and Occupational Health Unit Management under Prevention and Reduction of Major Industrial Accidents. Having carried the existing security BEST PLACE FOR SAFE WORK the HSE Directorate. When conducting the level to the next level every day with the works OHS activities, the OHS Code, regulations, done and being done, Aksa aims to reach Safe work is a joint action of all teams! Different color helmets are more communiqués and national and international international standards in this area. effective. standards are used. Since 2007, Aksa has become an exemplary in the sector with its The OHS Board, which is the most crucial The path of the safe environment is through the safe operation. OHSAS 18001applications. stakeholder engagement application in the OHS AKAT is everywhere all the time field consists of 15 people, including 1 employee In Aksa, it is our primary responsibility to create representative and 1 foreman representative A late precaution is an early messenger of an accident a healthy and safe working environment for elected by Aksa employees in person. The Board Our employees are entrusted to us by their children. our employees. An effective Occupational consists of employers' representatives, business Health and Safety management is presented, security experts, workplace physicians, human Work safety culture should not remain in mottos. We must apply in fields. in which risks related to operations are resources managers, administrative affairs O Aksa, you remove the behavior risks, let us remove the obstacles as periodically analyzed, preventive measures managers (civil defense experts). The Board leads are taken and action plans are prepared for Aksa's policy on occupational health and safety AKAT. possible emergencies. Our performance from transactions. No job is as urgent and important as it is to be insecure. our main sustainability priorities is constantly Companies can buy equipment for the units, but they cannot buy organs for improving, with pioneering practices covering Evaluated in a very dangerous business class, all stages of our value chain. Aksa does not employ people who below 18 us. Let's try to put on headphones in loud environments. years old. In the same way, the sub-employer Together with locking and labeling, maintenance is safer. Seveso or the contractor does not take workers on the 2017 was an important year for the factory floor who are not 18 years old. The future is the gift of our safe work. implementation of Seveso projects. Aksa completed the safety report in 2017 despite During the reporting period, there were no the fact that the delivery of the Security Report accidents or occupational illness cases resulting in was delayed to 31 December 2018 within the death at the Company. OHS TRAININGS PROVIDED TO EMPLOYEES BY YEARS (PERSON X HOUR) scope of the Regulation on the Amendment OUR OHS PERFORMANCE IN NUMBERS 1 2013 28,630 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 28,138 Accident Frequency Rate 4.87 8.86 5.70 5.12 3.24 2015 24,620 Accident Severity Rate 125.25 184.04 186.00 155.27 54.10 2016 21,060 ¹Accident Frequency Rate = Number of Work Accidents / (Total Number of Days with Premium *8) *1,000,000 2017 21,280 Accident Severity Rate = Total Number of Days Lost Due to Work Accidents / (Total Number of Days with Premium *8) *1,000,000 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CONTRIBUTED TO THE EMPLOYEES # fiberfortheworld P.38 In 2017, a total of 23% of Aksa employees were observers. We started to cover all WE WILL UPROOT THE CAUSES OF our employees in terms of monthly contact rate. Activities in the second half of the year concentrated on the obstacles identified in the observations, and improvements began to support safe working cultures in department-based working environments. Within the scope of the project, 300 AKAT observers are in contact with more than 1,000 observations per month and 1,500 employees. ACCIDENTS AT AKSA! Targeting operational excellence in its operations, Aksa considers its greatest strength not as With the project, our Business Security Leaders carried AKAT activities to the field and technological facilities that span large areas, but as its employees. Aksa wants all his employees to were asked to answer the question How can we work more securely? in a positive work in healthy surroundings and return to their families safely. In this context, while focusing on atmosphere based on mutual trust relationship. By observations, by touching the productivity and productivity, the project has been implemented since 2015 with the adoption and employee or team, the problems during their activities were evaluated together. implementation of the safest behaviors in the safest environments. For the past three years, the project has continued to increase in scope and employee participation. AKAT activities voluntarily Number of observers 301 participated by employees began to be rewarded with bonuses thanks to senior management Number of contacts ordinance. Our main goal is to ensure the sustainability of the project in 2018. Number of observations AKAT Integration of sub-employer employees 145 Within the scope of the project, an important step taken in 2017 was the integration of the off-staff into the project. We are very careful to comply with the same standards of safety and efficiency of 15 subcontractor and contractor services that we receive in Aksa processes. KÖK Accident Prevention Culture AKAT Aksa Accident Reduction Team The safety work culture development project required the participation of sub-employer companies. With the contribution of our long-time working 90 129 2,209 3,607 9,782 13,974 colleagues in this team whose number is from time to time exceeds 500, the project has become reachable to every person under the AKSA roof. 2015 2016 2017 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY # fiberfortheworld P.39 Focusing on developing solutions for the needs and problems of the whole DONATIONS AND SOCIAL AIDS IN 2017 (TL) society, especially the local people in the operational area in its corporate Donations and Social Aids Amount social responsibility projects and activities, Aksa aims to create the highest Associations, Foundations and Municipalities 60,000 possible value for its stakeholders. Others 16,507 Total 76,507 Aksa focuses on social awareness-focused, generations. The Corporate Social Responsibility human and environmentally sensitive activities, which the company has continuously practices. Within the scope of corporate developed with new projects, added value to every social responsibility projects, Aksa encourages region where Aksa's name passed in 2017. The stakeholder participation through effective expenditure details that Aksa made under the name and transparent communication mechanisms of Donations and Social Assistance in 2017, including and a volunteer-based approach that listens education, culture, arts and sports activities, are given to the expectations of stakeholders Aksa also in the table. supports Akkök Holding's social responsibility projects and is leading the sustainable Aksa continues to grow in social media, now on Open Door Visits Rhythm Aksa supports development of the society that is a part Twitter and Instagram! Continue Workshop with Yalova Animal of with the practices that it developed in education, culture, arts, sports, environment Continuing to meet its followers on social networks, Aksa Akrilik recently established accounts on Twitter In 2017, Open Door Visits Okay Temiz Shelter and health. and Instagram. Having entered the digital world with continued intensely. Within the While Rhythm Workshop Aksa Akrilik, who corporate Facebook and Linkedin accounts last year, scope of the visits, NGOs, local gives priority to social Aksa, which listens to its stakeholders' Aksa Akrilik opened its doors to followers on Twitter with Okay Temiz made it residents, schools, customers, responsibility activities, expectations with its effective and transparent and Instagram from the world's largest social networks possible for the students benchmarking teams, domestic delivers all the dishes that communication mechanisms and encourages as of April 2016. to receive training from and overseas visitors, had the are not consumed or served stakeholder participation through volunteerthe best trainers in the to the shelter with his own opportunity to visit the Aksa based approach, gives priority to human Through these accounts, much interesting information field, the concert held at vehicles daily in the scope of awareness-oriented, human and environmentproduction area and satisfy their is shared, including current developments, new Taşköprü Cultural the cooperation with Yalova friendly practices. investments, social responsibility projects and curiosity. Surveys conducted Center was given as a Municipality Animal Shelter. acrylic fiber usage areas. All stakeholders, including after each visit were evaluated result of the intense work Aksa is aware that sustainability in social customers, partners and members of the press, can according to Aksa's improvement of the children. development is possible with educated, access up-to-date information and news about the strategies. equipped, sophisticated, initiative taker, company through these proprietary social media environmentally and socially responsible accounts. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY # fiberfortheworld P.40 As Aksa, we structure our social responsibility across a wide spectrum; from sports to education, from environment to youngsters, and we are conducting effective programs and activities commencing with our employees and the city in which we reside. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY G4 17 # fiberfortheworld P.41 CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS Turkish Chemical Industrialists Istanbul Chamber of Commerce Association Ethics and Reputation Association Istanbul Chamber of Industry Acrylic Based Composite, (TEİD) Yalova Industrialists’ Association IMEAK Chamber of Shipping Advanced Material and Technology Producers’ Turkish Marine Environment Ltd. Eskihisar Gebze Water Yalova Chamber of Commerce Association ProtectionAssociation (Turmepa) Products Cooperative and Industry PROFESSIONAL ORGANIZATIONS NGO's LOCAL CHAMBERS INTERNATIONAL DEİK PUBLIC UNION CIRFS European Man-Made DEİK – American Council Undersecretariat of Turkish Textile Employers’ Fibres Association (Mehmet Ali Berkman) Maritime Affairs Association (TTSİS) DEİK European Council Istanbul Textile and Apparel (Ahmet Dördüncü) Exporters’Association (ITKIB) DEİK Foreign Economic Turkish Statistical Institute (TÜİK) Relations Board Turkish Port Operators AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 VALUE CREATED FOR SOCIETY G4 24-27 # fiberfortheworld P.42 METHODS FOR COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS CUSTOMERS INVESTORS NGOs EDUCATION AND RESEARCH INSTITUTIONS Fiscal Reports Fiscal Reports Corporate Website Sustainability Reports Sustainability Reports Joint CSR Projects SANTEZ Customer Satisfaction Surveys Investor Relations Line Sponsorships TEYDEB Corporate Website Corporate Website Sustainability Reports Research Projects Activities Annual Reports Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Support for Master and Social Media Accounts Investor Presentations Social Media Accounts Doctorate Studies Social Media Accounts Face-to-face Meetings Visits EMPLOYEES Social Media Accounts LOCAL COMMUNITY PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS Sustainability Reports Open Door Practices Open Door Practices Fiscal Reports Sustainability Reports MEDIA E-mail Official Correspondence Face-to-face Meetings Audits CSR Projects Corporate Website Employee Engagement Sustainability Reports Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Press Releases Surveys Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Social Media Accounts Press Conferences Trainings Social Media Accounts Sustainability Reports CSR Projects Surveys Corporate Publication (Aksa News) AKEK and AKSET Organizations Social Media Accounts Representative Committee INDUSTRIAL ASSOCIATIONS Suggestion System OHS Committee LOCAL AUTHORITIES Sectoral Association Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Memberships at Different Levels COMPETITORS Social Media Accounts Fiscal Reports Industrial Meetings Corporate TV Official Correspondence Social Media Accounts Corporate Website Sustainability Reports Sustainability Reports Open Door Applications Fiscal Reports Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Sector Researches SUPPLIERS AKKÖK GROUP OF COMPANIES Social Media Accounts Annual Reports Face-to-face Meetings Surveys Social Media Accounts General Assemblies Auctions, Corporate Website Portakal Portal Corporate Website Periodical Reporting Practices Audits Corporate Publication (Aksa News) Social Media Accounts Social Media Accounts # dünyanınelyafı S.39 SECTION III 3 PRESTIGIOUS AWARDS TO AKSA'S 12 TH SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDICATORS Our company received 3 awards from world's leading award programs Mercomm Galaxy and LACP Spotlight for our 12th sustainability report. AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GOALS # fiberfortheworld P.44 GREEN BUILDING GPTW PROJECT NETWORKING BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE Receiving a Green Completing GPTW Improving Existing Acquisition of GOALS 2 018 2 017 Building Certificate for Best Place to Work Relationships With Business Intelligence the Newly Established Project Public Institutions And Applications General Directorate Establishing New Links in Designated Building in Yalova Departments CDP WATER ISO 14046 KöK-AKAT CSR Continuing the Applying ISO Ensuring KOK-AKAT Ensuring Sustainability CDP Water Study 14046 Water Sustainability of Orchestra of the and Participating Footprint Future with Aksa in the CDP Climate Standard Corporate Social Study Responsibility Project COMMUNICATION RCS DOCUMENT BiST SI GPTW 2 CDP REPORTING GOALS WITH EMPLOYEES Completing Acquisition Take part in the Implementing the Climate and water Aksa culture of Recycled BIST Sustainability Second Survey of reporting and internal Claim Standard Index GPTW Best Place communication Certificate of to Work project Acrylic fiber COMPLETED CONTINUED PLANNED AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PRIMARY FINANCIAL INDICATORS G4 17 # fiberfortheworld P.45 PRIMARY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 31.12.2014 31.12.2015 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 31.12.2013 31.12.2014 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 31.12.2017 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 31.12.2013 THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD 31.12.2016 THOUSAND USD 31.12.2017 THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD THOUSAND USD ASSETS 848,805 861,643 775,236 748,172 889,285 LIABILITIES 848,805 861,643 775,236 748,172 889,285 Current Assets 401,625 421,320 369,907 394,287 492,832 Short-term Liabilities 288,879 324,184 258,325 311,933 401,451 Cash and Cash Equivalents 109,267 83,010 117,901 130,229 148,343 Financial Liabilities 105,824 121,717 140,423 165,037 193,733 Trade Receivables 171,202 210,987 160,898 175,627 193,498 Trade Liabilities 159,821 186,056 105,036 138,573 198,398 Stocks 86,770 101,931 63,652 61,810 111,115 Provision for Period Tax Liabilities 4,890 4,796 5,002 2,106 2,180 Other Current Assets 34,386 25,392 27,456 26,621 39,876 Other Short-term Liabilities 18,343 11,615 7,864 6,217 7,140 Non-current Assets 447,180 440,323 405,329 353,885 396,453 Long-term Liabilities 69,139 57,334 87,486 81,130 123,000 Trade Receivables 30,376 27,327 29,943 27,248 Financial Liabilities 58,387 43,977 72,239 72,054 111,308 Investment Property 16,652 13,399 12,167 Financial Derivative Instruments 323 Financial Investments 1,103 1,016 Provision for Employee Benefits 7,186 9,309 6,956 5,436 6,410 Investments Accounted for Using Deferred Tax Liabilities 3,395 4,048 2,485 3,317 5,282 114,842 104,613 83,690 60,881 58,860 the Equity Method Other Long-term Liabilities 171 4,806 Tangible Fixed Assets 317,908 292,611 247,137 215,060 273,533 Shareholders' Equity 490,787 480,125 429,425 355,109 364,834 Intangible Fixed Assets 7,460 5,781 28,531 22,257 21,131 Other Fixed Assets 5,867 5,926 1,992 12,345 3,514 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS G4 10 # fiberfortheworld P.46 HUMAN RESOURCES INDICATORS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employee Breakdown by Gender Starting Employees by Age Group and Gender Male 798 1,125 1,143 1,121 1,172 <30 94 217 71 70 90 Female 98 123 128 127 127 30–50 90 237 35 34 44 TOTAL 896 1,248 1,271 1,248 1,299 50< 5 17 1 2 1 Employee Breakdown by Status Male 181 181 122 95 118 Blue Collar 727 1,047 1,059 1,038 1,088 Female 8 290 12 11 17 White Collar 169 201 212 210 211 Leaving Employees by Age Group and Gender TOTAL 896 1,248 1,271 1,248 1,299 <30 27 41 63 36 33 Employee Breakdown by Age 30–50 35 57 48 88 35 <30 277 443 406 381 296 50< 12 10 13 22 12 30–50 584 766 818 836 953 Male 62 62 116 114 71 50< 35 39 47 31 50 Female 12 50 8 32 9 Employee Breakdown by Contract Senior Managers Board of Directors 8 12 12 9 8 Male 20 18 19 8 8 Permanent Staff 855 1,216 1,226 1,240 1,286 Female 1 1 1 0 0 Permanent Pensioner 13 3 10 8 13 Mid-level Managers Employee Breakdown by Employment Type Male 34 46 44 44 46 Full-time 894 1,258 12,69 1,247 1298 Female 7 9 9 10 10 Part-time 2 2 2 1 1 <30 0 0 3 4 1 Employees Subjected to Performance Appraisal by Employee Categories 30–50 27 45 45 46 47 Blue Collar 712 951 1,054 1,038 1,012 50< 12 5 5 4 8 White Collar 152 162 193 210 197 Two-year Degree and Below 1 0 0 0 0 Bachelor's Degree 32 45 42 42 42 Master's Degree and Above 8 10 11 12 14 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS # fiberfortheworld P.47 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 AMOUNTS OF WASTE BY DISPOSAL 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 METHOD (TON) Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) Direct Green-house Gas Emissions 857,737 1,136,312 1,210,750 1,234,715 1,034,366 Total Hazardous Waste 3,199 1,446 2,240 1,249* 1,303 Recycle 8 120 532 790 843 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 20,507 22,700 5,815 5533 132,465* Recovery 6 29 0 0 21 TOTAL 878,224 1,159,012 1,216,565 1,240,248 1,166,832 Incineration (mass burn) 3,185 1,297 1,708 459 439 Water Consumption (m3) Total Non-hazardous Waste 40,397 47,388 17,792 24,646 18,551 Municipal, Sea and Well Water 3,847,412 3,907,162 4,052,386 4,000,200 6,799,788 Recycle 270 789 789 21,696 13,398 Waste Water Discharge 2,950,507 2,833,690 2,472,875 2,830,040 2,392,690 Recovery 32,164 40,407 11,606 2,340 4,179 ENVIRONMENTAL TRAININGS (PERSON X HOUR) Landfill 1,799 1,255 1,255 300 686 2014 2015 2016 2017 Incineration (mass burn) 6,184 4,937 4,143 310 288 1,045 5,693 4,662 2,350 * After the opening of the joint treatment plant in 2016, the textile treatment plant was abolished and no dangerous sewage sludge remains there. PROCESS EMISSIONS Total NOx Total SOx Total UOB Other Emission Emission Emission Emissions (PM) 153kg/sa 2.41 kg/sa 7.27 kg/sa 2.65 kg/sa AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX # fiberfortheworld P.48 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-1 Message from the CEO 13-14 About Report 3 G4-17 Primary Financial Indicators 41 G4-2 Message from the CEO 13-14 G4-18 Sustainability Management 23-29 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-19 Sustainability Management 23-29 G4-3 Contact 54 About Report 3 G4-20 Generated Economic Value Sustainability Management 23-26 G4-4 17-21 Corporate Website http://www.aksa.com/en/product-selector About Report 3 G4-21 G4-5 Contact 54 Sustainability Management 23-26 About Report 3 About Report; In this report, there are not any restatements of G4-6 G4-22 3 Generated Economic Value 17-21 information provided in previous reports. Aksa 2017 Annual Report About Report 3 G4-7 G4-23 http://aksa.com/en/i-210 Sustainability Management 23-26 G4-8 Generated Economic Value 17-21 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Generated Economic Value 17-21 G4-24 Stakeholder Engagement 23, 26, 27, 42 G4-9 45 Primary Financial Indicators G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement 23, 26, 27, 42 G4-10 Human Resources Indicators Table 46 Stakeholder Engagement 23, 26, 27, 42 G4-11 Human and Employee Rights Management 32-38 G4-26 Sustainability Management 29 G4-12 Supply Chain 29 Stakeholder Engagement 23, 27, 42 Our Customers 26 Corporate Website: http://aksa.com/en/investor-relations/ G4-27 G4-13 Open Door Visits 36 material-disclosures/material-disclosures/i-220 Internal Communication and Employee Engagement 34 Corporate Governance 22 G4-14 Risk Management 22 Strategic Planning 23 Management Systems 29 G4-15 Primary Financial Indicators 45 G4-16 Corporate Memberships 41 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX # fiberfortheworld P.49 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE REPORT PROFILE MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE G4-28 About Report 3 G4-DMA Not material G4-29 About Report 3 Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 G4-EC5 GRI G4 Content Index (The ratio of standard entry level wage to 48 G4-30 About Report 3 local minimum wage was calculated with respect to employee status) About Report 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-31 Contact 54 Value Contributed to Society 39-42 G4-DMA About Report Supply Chain 26-27 3 G4-32 GRI G4 Content Index (Aksa Sustainability Report 2017 was not subjected to 48 G4-EC7 Value Contributed to Society 39-42 external audit.) GRI G4 Content Index Value Contributed to Society G4-33 G4-EC8 39-42 (Aksa Sustainability Report 2017 was not subjected to external audit.) Supply Chain GOVERNANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-34 Corporate Governance 22 G4-DMA Sustainable Operations 22 Aksa Annual Report 2017 http://aksa.com/en/i-210 G4-EC9 Supply Chain 29 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-56 Ethic Management at Aksa 22 Environmental Management 30-31 MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA 31 Energy Effıciency and Climate Change Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 G4-EN3 Energy Effıciency and Climate Change 31 G4-DMA Primary Financial Indicators 45 Environmental Management 30-31 G4-EC1 Primary Financial Indicators 45 G4-EN5 Energy Effıciency and Climate Change 31 Environmental Indicators Table 47 Message from the CEO 13-14 G4-EC2 29 Energy Effıciency and Climate Change Energy Effıciency and Climate Change 31 G4-EN6 Environmental Indicators Table 47 G4-EC3 Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 Energy Effıciency and Climate Change 31 Aksa 2017 Annual Report G4-EN7 G4-EC4 13-14 Environmental Indicators Table 47 http://aksa.com/en/i-210 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX # fiberfortheworld P.50 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Water Management 30 Environmental Management 30-31 G4-DMA 31 G4-DMA 31 Biodiversity Waste Management Water Management 30 Water Management 30 G4-EN8 G4-EN22 Environmental Indicators Table 47 Environmental Indicators 47 Water Management 30 G4-EN23 Waste Management 31 G4-EN9 Biodiversity 31 GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period there was not any significant G4-EN10 Water Resources Management 30 G4-EN24 43 spills.) MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY GRI G4 Content Index (There was no body of water significantly affected by G4-EN26 Aksa's water use.) Environmental Management 30-31 G4-DMA Responsible Production 30-31 Biodiversity 31 G4-EN27 Water Management 30 G4-EN11 Biodiversity 31 Waste Management 31 G4-EN12 Biodiversity 31 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS GRI G4 Content Index (No significant environmental penalties were received during G4-EN29 48 the reporting period for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations.) G4-DMA Emissions Management 31, 47 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-EN15 Emissions Management 31, 47 G4-DMA Not material G4-EN16 Emissions Management 31, 47 G4-EN32 Supply Chain 29 G4-EN21 Emissions Management 31, 47 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 G4-DMA 32-33 Talent Management G4-LA1 Human Resources Indicators Table 46 G4LA2 Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 G4LA3 Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX # fiberfortheworld P.51 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT G4-DMA Not material G4-DMA Ethics Management at Aksa 22 GRI G4 Content Index (For serious operational changes, Aksa complies with the G4-HR2 Ethics Management at Aksa 22 G4LA4 43 minimum period of notice defined by the law.) MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Corporate Governance 22 G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety 37-38 G4-DMA Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 Corporate Website: http://www.aksa.com/en G4LA5 Occupational Health and Safety 37-38 GRI G4 Content Index (No incidents of discrimination occurred during the G4-HR3 51 G4LA6 Occupational Health and Safety 37-38 reporting period.) MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Talent Management 33 G4-DMA Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 Talent Management 33 G4-HR5 Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 G4-LA9 Human Resources Indicators 46 MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4LA10 Talent Management 33 G4LA11 Talent Management 33 G4-DMA Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-HR6 Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 Value Contributed to Employees MATERIAL ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES G4-DMA 32-38 Corporate Website: http://www.aksa.com/en G4-DMA Not material G4-LA12 Human Resources Indicators Table 46 GRI G4 Content Index (In line with legal regulations, all security personnel receive G4-HR7 51 MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN trainings, which also include aspects of human rights.) G4-DMA Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 G4-LA13 Value Contributed to Employees 32-38 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX # fiberfortheworld P.52 GRI G4 iÇERiK iNDEKSi INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIGENOUS PEOPLE MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Not material Sustainable Operations G4-DMA 26 Our Customers GRI G4 Content Index (Aksa does not pursue operations with significant negative G4-HR8 52 GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period, there was not incident of impacts on local communities.) G4-PR2 non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health 52 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle.) Corporate Governance 22 MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA 22 Ethics Management G4-DMA Our Customers 26 G4-SO4 Ethics Management 22 GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period there was not any incident GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period there were not any incidents of G4-PR4 of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product 52 G4-SO5 52 corruption) and service information and labeling.) MATERIAL ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY G4-PR5 Our Customers 26 G4-DMA Not material MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATION GRI G4 Content Index (Aksa does not make directly or indirectly any financial and G4-SO6 52 G4-DMA Not material in-kind political contributions.) GRI G4 Content Index (There was not any incident of non-compliance with MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-PR8 52 regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications.) Corporate Governance G4-DMA 22 MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY Corporate Website : http://www.aksa.com/en GRI G4 Content Index (There was not any legal action taken against Aksa concerning G4-DMA Not material G4-SO7 52 any anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes.) GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period, there were not any MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-HR6 substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of 52 customer data.) GRI G4 Content Index (During the reporting period there was not any significant G4-SO8 52 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE fines and nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations.) GRI G4 Content Index (There were no significant fines for noncompliance with G4-PR9 52 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.) AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP # fiberfortheworld P.53 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN ANTILABOUR ENVIRONMENT RIGHTS CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 4 PRINCIPLE 7 PRINCIPLE 8 PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should support Businesses should uphold The elimination of all Businesses should Undertake initiatives Businesses should work and respect the protection the freedom of association forms of forced and support a precautionary to promote greater against corruption in of internationally and the effective compulsory labour approach to environmental all its forms, including proclaimed human recognition of the environmental responsibility; and extortion and bribery. rights; and right to collective challenges; p. 32-38 bargaining; p. 32-38 p. 32-38 p. 30-31 p. 30-31 PRINCIPLE 2 PRINCIPLE 5 PRINCIPLE 6 PRINCIPLE 9 Make sure that they are The effective The elimination of Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally not complicit in human abolition of child discrimination in friendly technologies. rights abuses. labour; and respect of employment and occupation. p. 32-38 p. 32-38 p. 32-38 p. 30-31 p. 22 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CONTACT G4 3-5-31 # fiberfortheworld P.54 AKSA AKRILIK KIMYA SANAYII A.Ş. Merkez Mahallesi Yalova-Kocaeli Yolu Caddesi No:34 PK:114 77602 Taşköprü-Çiftlikköy/Yalova Tel: +90 (226) 353 25 45 Fax: +90 (226) 353 33 07 www.aksa.com surdurulebilirlik@aksa.com Produced by CROSSCOM www.crosscom.biz CO R P O R AT E +90 (212) 225 61 31
