ANNUAL* REPORT 2018-19 *Prepared as per the Integrated Reporting Framework Disclaimer/forward-looking statement In this Annual Report, we have disclosed forwardlooking information to enable investors to comprehend our prospects and take informed investment decisions. This report and other statements – written and oral – that we periodically make, contain forward-looking statements that set out anticipated results based on the management’s plans and assumptions. We have tried wherever possible to identify such statements by using words such as ‘anticipates’, ‘estimates’, ‘expects’, ‘projects’, ‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’ and words of similar substance in connection with any discussion on future performance. We cannot guarantee that these forward-looking statements will be realised, although we believe we have been prudent in assumptions. The achievement of results is subject to risks, uncertainties and even inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialise, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Unless defined/provided otherwise elsewhere in this Annual Report, the term “Dalmia Bharat”/”the Group” mentioned in this Annual Report refers collectively to the Company, its subsidiaries, step down subsidiaries, joint venture companies and associate companies. Contents 03 06 12 16 Performance Integrated value chain From the Managing Operational review snapshot at Dalmia Bharat Director’s desk 20 22 26 30 Corporate Dalmia Bharat’s Our products Stakeholder engagement snapshot history process 36 44 52 60 Management discussion Financial Natural Human and analysis capital capital capital 68 78 86 97 Intellectual Manufactured Social and Relationship Directors’ capital capital capital Report 119 137 144 198 Report on Corporate Business Standalone financial Consolidated financial Governance Responsibility Report statement statement Dalmia Bharat. Responsible corporate citizen. Contributing to infrastructural growth 1. Chennai Metro, Tamil Nadu 2. Subansiri Hydro Power Project, Arunachal Pradesh 3. Advanced landing ground, Pasighat, Arunachal 1 2 Pradesh 4. Tata Steel, Kalinganagar, Odisha 3 4 Premium and innovative products 1. Premium quality cement with best-in-class compressive strength 2. Craft Beton encapsulates the beauty and versatility of cement 1 2 Focus on people, profit and planet 1. Nurturing talent and creating growth opportunities 2. Structured initiatives for local community development 1 2 3. Dalmia Bharat has created a cumulative water recharge potential of approximately five times of its annual water consumption 4. Safety and development of talent is of the utmost 3 4 priority 2 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Performance snapshot 26.5 9,484 1,942 (MT) (H in Cr.) (H in Cr.) Capacity Revenue EBITDA 18.68 19,000* 13 (MT) Sales (H in Cr.) Cement volume Market capitalisation plants 5,634 16.4 Intervention 11,000+ Regular talents Customers hours per regular talent >8.5 lakhs 195 MW* 33.5% Captive power Reduction in net carbon Population dioxide per tonne of outreach through generation capacity cementitious product CSR activities *Including solar and Waste Heat Recovery System *Compared to base year 1990 ZERO Waste water discharge 3 R&D centre 3 Robotic labs 4 Patents filed All the above figures are pertaining to FY19. *As on 31st March, 2019 Annual Report 2018-19 | 3 Dalmia Bharat. Inherited the values of the past. Embracing the opportunities of the future Natural capital Intellectual capital Human capital First global cement company We are one of the pioneers Dalmia Bharat, in association to join EP100 and committed in manufacturing composite with National Council of Cement to double our energy cement (using slag and fly ash), & Building Material (NCCBM), productivity by 2030 which helps in reducing carbon launched training programs for footprint and operating cost masons on better construction First cement company to join practices RE100; we aim to use 100% Our innovative product line renewable energy by 2030 of Craft Beton comprises more Dalmia Bharat undertook than 100 products designed by leadership training initiatives like In line with our commitment eight international designers, Nalanda, Lakshya, Shikhar and to environment and climate defining a new user base for Prarambh, during the year under change, we aim to become a cement review carbon-negative cement group by 2040 InfraGreen, our advanced and environment-friendly cement variant, delivers high performance and requires only three days of curing while using 30% less cement and a lower water consumption Our new wall finishing product does not require primer and reduces paint consumption by about 1520%, leading to a cost saving of approximately 30% 4 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Social and Relationship Manufactured capital Financial capital capital We became the first Indian Both acquisitions and We are investing ~H3,200 Cr. cement company to obtain an greenfield expansions have in brownfield projects in Eastern assurance on the alignment been key for the Group to scale India over a span of three years of our corporate social the business as well as venture responsibility activities with ISO into new geographies We reduced our gross debt by a 26000 substantial H1,368 Cr. in FY19 Dalmia is the only company Our efforts are centred with at least one plant in each Fitch upgraded our long-term around four focus areas of of the four key eastern states of rating to IND AA+ from IND AA Soil and Water Conservation, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand during the year under review Access to Clean Energy, and Odisha Livelihood Skill Intervention, and Social Development We have a wide product portfolio comprising PPC, PCC, We possess an excellent SROI PSC, OPC, Railway Sleeper and (Social Return on Investments) Oil Well Cement etc. for all our CSR interventions Annual Report 2018-19 | 5 The integrated value chain at Dalmia Bharat Resources Inputs Financial • 1.6 net debt-to-EBITDA ratio • 8.2% average cost of debt capital • H635 Cr. incentives received in FY19 from the government Natural • 11.8 MT of clinker consumed • 1,314 gigawatt-hours of electricity capital consumed • 1.98 million cubic metres of fresh water withdrawn • 1.82 MT of fuel consumed in kiln Human • 5,634 regular talents • 16.4 intervention hours per regular talent capital • Technical skills and knowledge upgradation • Focus on health and safety management • H648 Cr. invested in wages and benefits Intellectual • Three R&D centres; three robotics labs • Knowledge partnerships capital • H7 Cr. invested in R&D • 4 patents filed Manufactured • Seven integrated cement plants • One split clinkerisation plant capital • Five split grinding units • Eight captive power plants (195 megawatts including solar and WHRS) Social and • Engaging with the community • Forging enduring supplier relationships relationship • Broadening the customer base capital • Building investor confidence • H8 Cr. spent on corporate social responsibility activities 6 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Value creation activities Output and outcomes • Optimising capital allocation • Revenues increased by 11% to H9,484 Cr. • Maintaining a robust finance control in FY19 system • H2,091 Cr. cash flow generated from operational activities • H19,000 Cr. of market capitalisation as on 31st March, 2019 • H349 Cr. in net profit • Enhancing energy efficiency • Attaining water positivity • One of the lowest carbon footprint cement producer globally • Optimising waste utilisation • Shifting to renewable energy • Top ranked cement group on business • Strengthening complete compliance readiness for a low carbon transition (CDP with environmental regulations Report April 2018) • Employment and income generation# • Engaging talent • Growing customer base • Enhancing skills • Excellent customer service • Providing personal development opportunities • 8.5 lakhs population outreach via CSR • Fostering workforce diversity • Income generation for vendors • Ensuring talent wellness and safety • 9.2 megawatts of WHRS installed • 4% of fuel mix comprised alternative fuel • Organising workshops with knowledge partners • 28% alternative raw material consumption • Undertaking robust R&D activities rate • Rehabilitation of used mine areas • 99.3% of customer grievances resolved • 10% reduction in specific SOx emission* • Carrying out mining activities responsibly • 6% reduction in specific PM emission* • Blended cement production • Minimising impact on biodiversity, soil • Power generation (solar and WHRS) and noise • Rehabilitating mines • Minimising impact on local communities • Digitalisation of supply chain (logistics) • Dalmia Bharat has created a cumulative water recharge potential of approximately five times of its annual water consumption • Providing need-based products • Consolidated freshwater withdrawal • Ensuring customer satisfaction reduced by 38% in four years; water • Periodic engagement with suppliers recycling increased by 4 times • Communicating transparently with investors • Contribution through CSR activities # Two fatalities (Contractual talents) *Excluding data for Umrangshu and Meghalaya site All figures pertaining to FY19 Annual Report 2018-19 | 7 Dalmia Bharat. Committed to Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Yesterday. Today. Tomorrow. Four focus areas Scale operations towards bulk Increase production of blended transportation system through cements using alternative raw long-term contracts and material and fuel redistribution of operational sites Promote sustainable and supply chain construction practices and Partnership with transportation awareness towards carbon and logistic providers towards building solutions AFFORDABLE AND INDUSTRY, SUSTAINABLE incorporation of low carbon QUALITY DECENT WORK INDUSTRY, Scale R&D efforts for the alternatives CITIES AND EDUCATION AND ECONOMIC INNOVATION AND CLEAN ENERGY INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE COMMUNITIES GROWTH INFRASTRUCTURE identification and utilisation of Scale R&D efforts to develop a alternative materials climate-resilient infrastructure RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION CLIMATE ACTION and sustainable building product SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION portfolio AND PRODUCTION Incorporate initiatives to increase energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy Develop and implement Collaborate with academic biodiversity and ecosystem and industrial entities to foster management plans across advanced skills training program operational sites to meet the demand-supply gap Strengthen awareness and the in skilled workforce capacity of stakeholders on the Promote diversity and inclusion conservation of natural resources across the value chain through CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION LIFE ON LAND Strengthen systems towards GOOD HEALTH AND QUALITY GENDER EQUALITY change in business model and WELL-BEING EDUCATION AND PRODUCTION a better utilisation of natural policies resources Strengthen the transportation system through capacity building DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC REDUCED INEQUALITIES SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES and adoption of next generation GROWTH technologies to improve vehicle tracking and promote desired safety behaviours Priority Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) for the cement sector as per World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) • Providing preventive • Ensuring quality education GOOD HEALTH AND healthcare services QUALITY through schools, technical institutions and skill WELL-BEING • Undertaking driver safety EDUCATION programmes to enhance development programmes for transportation safety (people local communities and products) 8 | Dalmia Bharat Limited • Committed to offer equal • Providing safe water, GENDER opportunities to talents across CLEAN WATER sanitation and hygiene at the EQUALITY locations and backgrounds AND SANITATION workplace, implementing the • Committed to the protection WASH pledge of WBCSD of women at the workplace • Conducting periodic through policy enunciation and appraisals of drinking water implementation quality and construction of sanitation blocks and toilets for • Supporting and mentoring local communities self-help groups engaged in empowering women • Water-positive cement group through extensive water conservation and harvesting • Enabling access to clean • Recruiting talents from the AFFORDABLE AND energy solutions DECENT WORK AND nearby community CLEAN ENERGY • Installed 8 MW solar power ECONOMIC GROWTH • Remunerating fairly in generation capacity accordance with the rules and regulations of the Government of India • Invested in research & • Significant employer in development to develop nextREDUCED pockets of remote India; INDUSTRY, generation ‘green’ cement providing merit-based INNOVATION AND INEQUALITIES brands employment (regardless of age, INFRASTRUCTURE • Collaborated with sex, ethnicity, religion and other international organisations to affiliations) assess and implement new • Member of United Nations low-carbon manufacturing Global Compact; adopted 10 technologies principles of United Nations Global Compact • Conducting road safety • Increasing the use of SUSTAINABLE CITIES awareness activities near our RESPONSIBLE industrial waste (slag and fly manufacturing facilities CONSUMPTION ash) as raw materials AND COMMUNITIES • Training truck drivers in AND PRODUCTION • Supporting the ‘polluter to enhanced road discipline pay’ principle; enhancing the • Conservation and optimum efficient utilisation of industrial utilisation of water; providing waste the community with sustainable and clean energy solutions for cooking and lighting • Reinforcing our position • Engaging deeply with India as one of the world’s lowest LIFE ON Business and Biodiversity CLIMATE carbon footprint cement LAND Initiative as an active member ACTION companies • Investing in rainwater • Sustaining our efforts to harvesting and biodiversity consistently reduce emissions conservation (in and around our manufacturing plants) • Ranked number one by CDP for business readiness to a low • Planting native plant carbon transition species (in and around our manufacturing facilities and mining locations) Annual Report 2018-19 | 9 About this Integrated Report Vidyasagar Setu, Kolkata (Constructed using Dalmia Cement) 10 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Overview Dalmia Bharat is committed to enhancing values, vision, strategy and business model. value for all stakeholders in a sustainable Besides, this Report explains the industrial manner. We believe that endeavours of landscape against which our financial and the present influence the stability of our non-financial performance were achieved. future. In line with this, we undertake bold The Report also addresses various material (and occasionally contrarian) interventions issues, resulting in a balanced presentation with the objective to accelerate valueof our performance for the period under creation. Our second Integrated Report review. provides a holistic view of our professed Boundary and scope The non-financial data and information operations (reflected in our Materiality presented in the report pertain to Map). FY18 and FY19 while the financial data We followed a robust and progressively pertains to FY19. The performance review strengthening process for data collection, aggregated information from our 13 analysis and management. This warranted manufacturing locations (Dalmiapuram, assumptions and standard calculation Ariyalur, Kadappa, Belgaum, Rajgangpur, methodologies aligned with global Kapilas, Medinipur, Bokaro, Lumshnong, estimation and data quantification Umrangshu, Lanka, Guwahati and standards (wherever applicable). For Rohtas) and from our mines and plants the computation of GHG emissions, we (cement, clinkerisation and captive power). utilised emission factors provided by InterOur materiality assessment guided the governmental Panel on Climate Change reporting process, which was revisited and Central Electricity Authority (Ministry this year. The issues included in the report of Power, Government of India). represent the highest importance for our Frameworks Our constant endeavour is to present International Integrated Reporting Council information in an unbiased, comparable, (IIRC), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) accurate, reliable and comprehensive Standards, Global Concrete and Cement manner to our stakeholders. To enhance Association (GCCA), United Nations reporting transparency, we followed Global Compact (UNGC) and Sustainable various global reporting frameworks: Development Goals (SDGs). Assurance Ernst & Young Associates LLP provided decisions regarding our capability to not external assurance for the analysis of only create value over time but also to non-financial data used in the Integrated sustain it. We are committed to enhance Report. This independent organisation the quality of our reporting process and conducted limited assurance and verified would be grateful for any feedback you the information, data and calculation may have, which you could send to the protocols for indicators associated with following address: CO2 and other emissions, health, safety, water and other social and environmental Corporate Communications, parameters disclosed in this Report. The Dalmia Bharat Group assurance on financial statements was Hansalaya Building, 11th and 12th floor provided by our Independent Auditors (S.S. 15, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi Kothari Mehta & Company) The digital 110001 version of this report is available at www. Phone: 011 – 23310121 /23/24/25 dalmiacement.com. Fax: 23313303 This Report would be of interest to E-mail: corpcomm@dalmiabharat.com stakeholders who wish to make informed Website: www.dalmiabharat.com The environmental disclosure does not include the Kalyanpur Plant at Rohtas (Bihar) Annual Report 2018-19 | 11 12 | Dalmia Bharat Limited From the Managing Director’s desk The year FY19 represented a watershed year wherein we successfully completed the restructuring and amalgamation of our multiple subsidiaries into one listed entity – Dalmia Bharat Limited – to present our stakeholders with a structure that enhances simplicity and clarity. Having a single listed entity will strengthen our principal objective of constantly enhancing stakeholder value. In 2004, when we embarked cement manufacturer, to be believe that this complement on a journey to disrupt our recognised as a responsible will continue to enhance steady multi-decade growth corporate citizen. value for our employees, journey with an aspiration to vendors, customers, Our foundation during this emerge as one of the largest community and environment. phase has been our enduring cement groups in India, we sense of values: a respect for We have erred a few times recognised that we would human dignity, engagement but have accepted, learnt need to completely transform in nation-building, addressing and improvised to emerge ourselves, keeping our core the larger good, high ethical stronger. The recent instance values and culture as the standard, complete regulatory of fraud related to the nucleus. compliance and commitment Company’s mutual fund A vision as challenging as this to enhance stakeholder value. units was unexpected and needed us to passionately unfortunate as, despite Dalmia Bharat increased work towards our stated reasonable internal controls its manufacturing capacity objective with a precision and diligence, a third party from 1.2 MTPA in 2004 to in execution to transform outsider perpetrated the fraud 26.5 MTPA in 2019 and ourselves into a pan-India through a blatant forgery simultaneously attained company possessing scale; of base documents. While a leadership position in from a staid brand recall, a responsible investigation profitability per tonne we would need to enhance is presently in progress, we over the last decade. The our brand excitement; from reassure our stakeholders Company achieved one of a simple manufacturing that there was no malafide the fastest growth rates in positioning we needed intentions nor internal the Indian cement sector. to evolve to being seen employee involvement. As a We will endeavour to sustain as community catalysts; responsible organisation, we this growth appetite on from being perceived as a are extensively reviewing our the back of an integrated company delivering against systems with the objective organisational framework that regional standards, we to strengthen our operating is simplified, more transparent were required to evolve environment and reinforce and invested with stronger to global benchmarks; internal controls. processes and controls. We from being seen as a mere Annual Report 2018-19 | 13 Operational review that the hearing of Murli is below the industry average. On the business front, there Industries at NCLT with We intend to fund this capital was a steep escalation regards to the resolution expenditure primarily through across cost parameters that plan is concluded and the internal accruals and minimal impacted annual profitability final order is awaited. This borrowings. for the cement industry in acquisition will strengthen At Dalmia Bharat, we believe 2018-19. We limited the our overall competitiveness: that sustainability across impact of this slowdown it will extend our presence market cycles is derived from through proactive initiatives to a state where we are not a position of disciplined like use of multiple fuel, fully present; widen our leverage. In line with this pioneering the Portland presence; empower us to conviction and stakeholder Composite Cement category enter new markets and is a feedback, we focused on and strengthening cost step further towards a pandebt moderation and paid management. The Company’s India presence. In view of the down more debt than was commitment to achieve fact that the Murli Industries scheduled in the last couple sectoral cost leadership facilities had been shut for of years, a commitment continues to be driven the last few years, we are we would sustain. We are by an ongoing process estimating that following optimistic that our disciplined reassessment, deeper initial capital expenditure, we resource management will employee empowerment, should be able to commence continue to provide us with a investments in technology as commercial production of the steady stream of surplus cash well as strengthening vendor acquired facility within one flows. and customer relationships. year of the actual acquisition. The 10% annual volume The Company’s planned Technology growth reported by the capacity expansion in East As a future-focused Company in 2018-19 was India is well on schedule. company, Dalmia Bharat well in line with the broad We expect to commission has progressively invested in industry growth. Net sales the clinker line and almost technology on a continuous rose 11% to H9,484 Cr; half the grinding capacity basis. Technology has EBITDA was H1,942 Cr. As by March 2020 with the continued to play a key a company, we continue entire capacity on stream by role across the breadth to seek opportunities March 2021. We believe that of our operations. At our and undertake capacity with an enhanced capacity, Company, a three-pronged expansions for enhancing we will consolidate our technology approach is market share and diversifying position deeper in the eastern directed towards improving As a futurelocations. With that objective market, potentially leading efficiency, moderating focused company, we had bid for Binani to leadership across the costs and creating a better Cement’s assets but with the foreseeable future. experience for our dealers and Dalmia Bharat IBC law still evolving and our customers. We recognise that has progressively insistence on maintaining This capacity growth will in an increasingly digitising invested in ensure our participation in financial discipline, we were world, we need to replace the addressing the country’s technology on a unable to acquire the asset mechanical with the digital. growing cement requirement. continuous basis despite higher initial bids. Even as we grew our Environment Dalmia Bharat’s acquisition manufacturing capacities Having a committed and strategy has been integral at a CAGR of 15% over consistent focus on the to its accelerated growth the last decade, we intend environment, Dalmia Bharat aspiration and nearly 57% of to add almost 40% to our has evolved as a powerful and its present installed capacity existing capacity over the distinct brand that commands was acquired inorganically next two years. As a result of respect as an environmentally over the last decade. We disciplined capital allocation, responsible company. The are pleased to communicate the cost of capacity addition sustainability of our business 14 | Dalmia Bharat Limited model is defined by our increased optimism. In FY20, Renewable energy capacity commitment to challenge the we expect that India’s GDP by FY21 status quo every single day with the objective of retaining our leadership as a cement growth will be catalysed by increased government investments in infrastructure ~50 MW company with the lowest and affordable housing. We Manufacturing capacity by global carbon footprint. believe that the country’s FY21 37 MT cement industry is at an During the year under review, inflection point, marked we became the first Indian by incremental demand cement company to commit exceeding incremental supply to science based targets. We after more than a decade. made a commitment during In this environment, we Global Climate Action Summit also foresee more industry to emerge as a carbonconsolidation following the negative cement group Reserve Bank of India’s focus by 2040 with an impetus of non-performing assets on carbon capture and and strict IBC enforcement. utilisation. We are well capitalised and We continue to invest in structurally equipped today community building, covering to take advantage of all education, skill development, opportunities and address any job creation, agriculture, challenges in our journey. health & sanitation, and I wish to express my gratitude clean energy. We became the to all our stakeholders who first global cement company have reposed their confidence to have our CSR processes in our management. We assured by BSI for following remain committed to enhance the ISO 26000 guidance. value for all our stakeholders in a sustainable way. Knowledge capital At Dalmia Bharat, our business sustainability has been reinforced through Sincerely, the passion of our people. Gautam Dalmia and Their commitment, skill, Puneet Yadu Dalmia knowledge and loyalty Managing Director(s) represent the building blocks Dalmia Bharat Limited of our Company. We value their contributions and are working on a measurable plan to grow their intellectual capital, comprising increased empowerment, training, career growth, leadership capabilities and interest alignment with the organisation. We embark on the foreseeable future with Annual Report 2018-19 | 15 Operational review Dear stakeholders, It is our constant endeavour to create the enterprise of tomorrow in today’s environment. Corporate capability is measured by integrated value creation and strongly linked to creating a future-ready business enterprise. By following a business philosophy of Clean & Green is Profitable and Sustainable, our purpose is to transition towards a zero carbon company, enabling the building material segment to become carbon-negative. Moving away from a heritage of fossil fuel-based power and thermal energy generation, our new flexible approach focuses on switching to alternative fuels, biomass-based fuels (such as agro-waste, bamboo), waste heat-recovery based power generation and renewable power to create positive environmental and social impacts. We will continue to build on this approach, capturing markets and creating a low carbon future for India. 16 | Dalmia Bharat Limited In FY19, we continued India possesses 4% of global efficiently reach customers. I would like to thank the to focus on achieving freshwater while accounting Interventions like Suvidha, Dalmia Bharat team for inclusive growth and for almost 18% of the geo-tagging and Dalmia its continued support. We excelling in products world’s population. Keeping dhabas, among others, acknowledge that the path manufactured, services this in mind, Dalmia Bharat enabled us to harmonise towards sustainability and rendered and operations is focused on reducing engagements with customers, inclusive growth requires managed. We engaged water consumption across dealers and talents. We relentless passion and in capacity expansion, all functions. Owing to remain committed to commitment and this is product diversification this increasing focus and progressing on 10 principles reflected in our culture cum innovation, thermal several water conservation of United Nations Global and the way we conduct substitution and initiatives, we moderated Compact (UNGC) in our business. digitalisation. The result our freshwater consumption business operations and the was improved efficiency, by 38% and quadrupled our value chain. enhanced competitiveness water recycling quantum in Mahendra Singhi We believe in growing with and corporate growth. As four years. Further, over the Managing Director and communities. Our corporate a prominent Indian cement course of four years, we saved CEO, Dalmia Cement responsibility initiatives are manufacturer and thought ~40 million cubic meters (Bharat) Limited focussed on nation building leader, we continued to of water through rainwater and we are committed to aspire to enhance value in a harvesting inside and outside creating long-term shared sustainable way for all our our Group premises through value for all our stakeholders. stakeholders. the recycling of waste water We believe that growth in and drip irrigation. Through Our commitment towards social and relationship capital these efforts, Dalmia Bharat environmental protection was corresponds to an increase in has created a cumulative reflected in our achievements: the value of intangibles like water recharge potential of we were ranked #1 in the brand and reputation in the approximately five times of its global cement manufacturing long run. At Dalmia Bharat, annual water consumption. sector by the Carbon our objective is to touch the Disclosure Project (CDP) Even as occupational health lives of all our stakeholders, for our achievement in and safety have always been create win-win opportunities transitioning into a lowour priority, we suffered two and make a meaningful carbon footprint business. unforeseen fatalities in FY19. positive difference in the lives We increased the proportion Learning from these mishaps, we touch. of alternative materials used, we are working relentlessly to Since the inception of our replacing conventional kiln ensure a safer environment Company, we invested fuels with alternative fuels for our talents and deliver a in two human resource and bio-fuels. We moderated zero-accident workplace. pillars ‘Building a strong our emissions in line with We interact periodically and sustainable business the International Energy with all stakeholder groups foundation’ and ‘Growth for Agency’s (IEA) 2-degree to reconcile their needs, tomorrow’. We created a scenario mandated for 2030. interests and grievances. high-performing workplace We became the first global Our stakeholders are at the marked by open discussions organisation committed to heart of everything we do and our value system helped RE100 and EP100 campaigns. and their unwavering trust align individual goals with This commitment was We interact has enabled us to overcome organisational objectives. reinforced through various challenges in transforming We believe that the vast periodically with all ground level initiatives across stakeholder groups our organisation and realising untapped potential in each plants and functions. We also to reconcile their long-term goals. To enhance individual can be unleashed increased resource efficiency customer proximity, we seek by challenging, connecting needs, interests and across our manufacturing and to digitalise legacy processes and coaching individuals. grievances. logistics operations. that will make it possible to Annual Report 2018-19 | 17 The word ‘Technology’ and how it helped Dalmia Bharat reinvent the Group A t Dalmia Bharat, the Dalmia Bharat’s technology operative drift that you pick engineering planted the seed up in conversations is the of an idea in his mind: if you word ‘Technology’. cannot reach your material as fast as the others, why don’t you start ‘Technology’ standing for a out earlier? better ways of doing things. ‘Technology’ standing for The word ‘earlier’ became the innovation. ‘Technology’ lead on which the Group built standing for a superior application a predictive solution: on sales that translates into enhanced that were likely to happen. This competitiveness. transformed the game: based on forecasting capability, the Group As this culture deepened within, a began to dispatch cement to a business manager presented a long‘virtual depot’ near the customer’s standing problem that he faced location. As soon as the customer and wondered if the ‘Technology’ placed the order, the cement was experts at Dalmia Bharat could immediately dispatched. provide a solution. That one word decisively Each time he attempted to address transformed ground realities across a localised increase in cement five years. Dalmia Bharat has demand, he found competitors moderated its delivery time from an beating him to it. They would reach average eleven hours to four hours. their material faster to distributor warehouses (and hence retail The Dalmia Bharat distributor is shelves). pleasantly surprised. ‘Abhi phone kiya nahi aur maal aa pahuncha!’ He reconciled. He said he would have to live with this. He said ‘No point trying.’ Until the whisper of the word ‘Technology’ got to him. 18 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Technologies at Dalmia Bharat Artificial Intelligence for HR solutions Predictive analytics Leveraging social media for effective talent acquisition Oracle and SAP for a real-time performance mapping Technology-enabled tools for sales professionals Low carbon technologies to reduce carbon footprint Analytics for precise microdetails of the business Apps offering a one-tap option to help dealers improve their order lifecycle management, help transporters with instant electronic proof-of-delivery, aid influencers (engineers, architects and masons) with construction estimates and tips, help sales managers with customer satisfaction and secondary sales, assist instant senior management approvals for purchase requisitions, help transporters track delivery tenures and empower logistics executives exercise stronger control across the logistical value chain Annual Report 2018-19 | 19 What Dalmia Bharat stands for Values Dalmia Bharat’s organisational values are Stakeholders subtle, Indian and timeless. Background Dalmia Bharat aspires to Since 1935, Dalmia Bharat help unleash the potential has contributed towards of everyone it touches. Our nation-building through culture and value system go a gamut of value-added beyond our professional life. products. Sustainability Performance In line with the Paris Dalmia Bharat reported Agreement, Dalmia Bharat consolidated net revenue transformed its business of H9,484 Cr., net profit of to emerge as one of the world’s greenest cement Dalmia H349 Cr. and total assets of H20,538 Cr. for FY19. manufacturing companies. Bharat It was ranked in business readiness for low carbon transmission, which helped it to emerge as a water-positive cement group. Brands Capacity Dalmia Bharat is working to Dalmia Bharat is India’s fourth increase its asset utilisation largest cement group with and building capacity through an installed capacity of 26.5 brownfield expansions. Its Leadership MTPA, accounting for ~5% portfolio of brands and Dalmia Bharat is a leader of the all-India capacity share. product portfolio (DSP, Ultra, in the super-speciality It possesses manufacturing Superproof, Konark and SRPC, cement segment, which facilities across 13 locations InfraGreen, Oil Well, Air Strip enjoys downstream demand and nine Indian states. & Railway Sleeper Cement) among manufacturers of serves the need of 22 States railway sleepers, oil wells and across Eastern, North-Eastern airstrips. It is the country’s and Southern India. largest producer of slag cement. 20 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Our values Trust and respect Commitment Humility Integrity Respect is earned, Commitment is Perfection is Integrity is the trust is gained. what transforms impossible without quality of being a promise into a humility. honest and having reality. strong moral values. Annual Report 2018-19 | 21 Dalmia Bharat’s history A view of the cement factory at Dalmiapuram (Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited, Dalmiapuram, Tamil Nadu) 22 | Dalmia Bharat Limited 1980-2000 2015-17 • Acquired OCL in Eastern India • Introduced a vertical roller mill for limestone grinding for the first • Scaled its capacity to 25 MTPA time in India • Became the first to commit to • Commissioned a captive power EP100 and RE100 campaigns plant using heavy fuel oil • Launched Craft Beton • Became the first Indian player to • Published its first Integrated manufacture oil well cement Report • Became the first in India to • Became one of the few commission the modern precompanies to have its CSR calciner dry process in its kiln processes assured on ISO 26000 and publish its 1st CSR report, based on ISO 26000 guidance • Commits to sciencebased targets • Become water positive cement group 2000-10 • Established greenfield projects in Ariyalur and Kadappa • Scaled its manufacturing capacity to 9 MTPA • Commissioned captive power plants in Dalmiapuram and Ariyalur • Set up Dalmia Bharat Foundation to further its commitment to corporate citizenship 2017-19 • Acquired Kalyanpur Cement (Bihar) • Announced capacity additions of 1930-50 2010-15 7.8 MT in the eastern region • Completed restructuring to emerge as a single listed entity, • Expanded rapidly in Eastern and reducing the number of subsidiaries Entered the cement industry by setting up its first manufacturing Southern India through organic • Introduced Dalmia Determined facility in Dalmiapuram (Tamil and inorganic initiatives (Calcom Contributions (DDC) directed Nadu) with an installed capacity of and Adhunik in North-Eastern towards increasing environment1.2 MTPA India and Bokaro in Eastern India) friendliness on the back of superior • Published its first sustainability technologies report • Became a Cement Sustainability 1950-80 Initiative member • Became a WASH Pledge signatory Launched specialised cement • Undertook a target to become a variants for constructing airstrips water-positive cement group and railway sleepers Annual Report 2018-19 | 23 How our operations have grown over the years FY04: 1.2 MT 1 plant in 1 State Our presence in States Existing plants 24 | Dalmia Bharat Limited FY19: 26.5 MT 13 plants in 9 States Our presence in States Existing plants Where we operate Dalmia Bharat’s 13 manufacturing units are spread across nine Indian States. The Group, headquartered in New Delhi (India), employed 5,634 talents as on 31st March 2019. It increased its installed capacity manifold through greenfield expansions and acquisitions. With the ongoing brownfield capacity expansions and acquisitions, the operations of the Group will expand to 17 manufacturing units across 10 Indian States by FY21. It presently services more than 22 States and is among leading players in every region of its presence. Accelerated capacity development strengthened Dalmia Bharat’s competitive advantage, making it possible to leverage economies-of-scale, carve away first-mover advantages, build on its existing market leadership, improve resource linkages and increase distribution efficiency. Annual Report 2018-19 | 25 Dalmia Bharat. A holistically positive experience Our products and services For nearly eight decades, Dalmia Bharat has delivered value-added products and reliable after-sales service. It has played a catalytic role in India’s infrastructural growth. Its superior expertise has resulted in the commissioning of landmark national infrastructure projects – the Dhola-Sadiya Bridge (longest bridge in India), Chennai Metro, Kochi Metro and Advanced Landing Ground in Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh), among others. Dalmia Bharat commissioned a research lab named Dalmia Research Centre (DRC) to address emerging market needs. DRC is engaged in ongoing product analysis to enhance product quality. Its product range comprises super-premium brands (Dalmia DSP) and premium brands (Dalmia). Dalmia OPC – 43 & 53 Dalmia 43 and 53 grades are manufactured using advanced CVRM technology, which provides cement with balanced particle size distribution, resulting in denser concrete. With Dalmia 53 grade’s denser concrete, roofs are guarded against cracks and water leaks, making it durable for decades. With Dalmia OPC 43 grade cement, compressive strength is 25% higher than the specified requirements of BIS. Dalmia 43 grade comprises minimal free lime and magnesia, enhancing volume stability that prevents construction from cracks and damages. The low chloride content in the 43 grade OPC cement provides corrosion resistance to embedded steel in RCC. Dalmia Sulphate Resisting Konark Portland Slag Konark Composite Portland Cement (SRPC) Cement (PSC) The latest entrant in the blended The Sulphate Resisting Cement of Manufactured by inter-grinding cement family. Manufactured by Dalmia is a unique product designed clinker, gypsum and blast furnace blending ground clinker with slag to resist the challenges of aggressive granulated slag from the steel and fly ash. Enhances sustainability environment impact, leading to industry. Blends OPC with ground by reducing the clinker factor and long concrete construction life. The granulated blast furnace slag utilising industrial by-products such salient features, which sets it apart, using mechanical blenders. as fly ash and slag. comprise: Used in general civil engineering Pozzolanic and hydraulic reaction construction. Preferred in the • Effective for harsh environments of fly ash and slag enhances construction of marine structures • Higher volume stability mechanical properties of concrete. and in coastal areas (where • Extensive corrosion resistance The combined effect of slag and excessive chlorides and sulphates • Higher compressive strength silica as plasticizers results in a higher are present). Ideal for mass workability at a lower water cement concrete structures like dams and ratio. Offers higher compressive embankments. strength and long-term durability. Caters to all customer segments. 26 | Dalmia Bharat Limited 80% of the product portfolio comprises blended cements Oil Well Cement (OWC) Dalmia Portland Pozzolana Railway Sleeper Cement Used for cementing in drilling oil Cement (PPC) Pioneered the manufacture of this wells subject to high temperature Higher impermeability in PPC cement variety in India. Addressed and pressure. Contains special prevents corrosion in steel bars demanding specifications of Indian organic retarders to prevent used in construction. Provides a Railways. Helped replace wooden cement from setting quickly. ‘home’ with higher durability. railway sleepers for high-speed trains. Manufactured in line with stringent Dalmia PPC Cement is the perfect Supplied to all major railway sleeper standards; received a coveted cement choice of construction for manufacturers in India. Used in the certification from American home builders. Chennai-Trichy broad gauge. Petroleum Institute. Largest producer of this cement variety in India. Addresses needs of reputed clients (ONGC and Oil India Limited). Dalmia DSP Crown jewel in Dalmia Bharat’s product bouquet. Specialised best-in-class offering in slagbased and fly ash-based variants. Premium quality cement produced from high-grade Portland cement clinker, imported gypsum and superior ground granulated blast furnace silica rich slag (GGBS) from the most reputed steel manufacturers. Quality raw materials ensure optimal particle size (fineness), ease of working, best setting time and highest strength, making it a preferred choice. Packed in Biaxially Oriented Polypropylene (BOPP) bags with nano-pores (compared to micro-pores or macro-pores), which ensure shower resistance, minimal seepage and extended freshness. Annual Report 2018-19 | 27 Sustainable procurement Dalmia Bharat is committed to sustainable sourcing. The ‘Sustainable Supply Chain Management Guide’ ensures that material and components are sourced sustainably, sourcing relationships are comprehended thoroughly and supply chain risks identified pro>11,000 actively across organised and unorganised players of the construction Supply chain value chain. stakeholders The Group optimised resource and equipment sourcing with considerable advantages cascading to local suppliers. This widened economic development across allied sectors; it reduced risks associated with globalised sourcing. 2.5 hours The Group promoted local sourcing, compliance with regulations Average turnaround time and collaboration with stakeholders to build mutual dependencies. It customised incentive programs in accordance with unique needs Average turnaround time at manufacturing sites and interest areas of vendor partners. In doing so, it moderated costs, increased suppliers, enhanced stakeholder satisfaction and minimised environmental impact. Supply chain Individual builder OUTBOUND homes Wholesalers and retailers INBOUND Contractors and builders OUTBOUND Raw materials Limestone, fly ash, gypsum Concrete Manufacturing, and slag companies storage and Fuels packaging Coal, pet coke, furnace oil and alternative fuels OUTBOUND Large infrastructure projects 28 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Strengthening the supply chain Geo-tagging for greater Digitisation of the Dalmia Driver Loyalty transparency supply chain Programme Dalmia Bharat mapped its entire The mobile-based electronic proof Dalmia Bharat’s Driver Loyalty trade channel, including dealers, of delivery app is used by drivers Programme provides credit points to sub-dealers and customers for e-delivery confirmation. Though drivers on the basis of the number of to comprehend the customer this digitisation is in its initial stages, trips and the collection of electronic landscape deeper. The data helped the benefits reaped from it would proof of delivery, among other in the right placement of assets comprise superior working capital parameters. Every two months, in the market and innovating the management of the transporter drivers’ families are invited to an delivery model based on market due to auto freight payment, better event where the drivers are rewarded access. understanding of the exact location on the basis of aggregated credit of material consumption leading points. This initiative has promoted to superior marketing strategies, positive behavioural change, enhanced accurate freight payment based motivation among drivers, which, on multi-point delivery patterns, in turn, has increased customer digital closure of the order-tosatisfaction and driving safety. cash cycle loop and an immediate Dalmia Bharat embarked on the job transparent app-based access to the enhancement of truck drivers into delivery rating experience. On the long-term sales force which will back of digitalisation, the Group empower them to assume additional is optimistic of reaping superior responsibilities like billing and taking benefits. acknowledgments, among others. Dalmia Bharat’s decision to promote international cyclists from Portugal, this marquee event was in line with its Canada, USA, Germany, UK and India. conviction to promote talent, celebrate At Dalmia Bharat, we believe that performers, enhance regional visibility our consistent support will provide and encourage the youth of the region this competition an international to turn to sport as an expression of stature that attracts a larger number their personality. of global cyclists and helps build a The gruelling eight-day November thriving community that enhances mountain biking race Dalmia awareness for fitness, outdoor sport Dalmia Bharat. Engaged in MTB Arunachal Hornbill’s Flight and environmental integrity. At our helping the world moderate International Race 2018 – commenced Group, we believe that this initiative, its carbon footprint from Itanagar and ended in Mechuka, directed at moderating the world’s a distance of 730 kms. The race carbon footprint, is an extension of In Dalmia Bharat’s race of excellence, attracted 100 riders. our commitment to make the world a there is virtually no finish line. better place to live in. Dalmia Bharat not only sponsored Fittingly, it selected to promote the event but also sponsored five The competition’s flag-off had a adventure sport in North East deserving youngsters to participate, surprise visitor in Indian film icon India (Arunachal Pradesh) with the strengthening its connect with the Salman Khan (following his unveiling objective to promote eco-tourism in regional community. These youngsters the official race jersey in Mumbai Arunachal and attract visibility for participated alongside prominent earlier). the region, sport and company. Annual Report 2018-19 | 29 Stakeholder Stakeholder engagement process Customers Dalmia Bharat engages with customers, talents, suppliers, dealers, communities, investors as well as governmental / regulatory bodies. The stakeholders of the Group expect respect, transparency, integrity and fairness. To address their expectation, Dalmia Bharat built a Talents robust stakeholder engagement process. Stakeholders were identified based on peer reviews, expertise, experiences, surveys, influence and periodic engagement with all relevant stakeholders to understand their concerns leading to their resolution, improved decision-making, lower environment impact and better societal Suppliers relations. Stakeholder engagement process Identifying stakeholder group, based Communities on influence and relevance Understanding stakeholder issues and concerns Investors Organising meetings for consultation and receive feedback Integrating stakeholder concerns in decision-making Governmental Communicating relevant and regulatory information to stakeholders on a regular basis bodies 30 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Focus areas Communication channels • Timely delivery • Customer feedback • Quality • Customer satisfaction surveys • Pricing • Phone calls, e-mails and meetings • Post-sale support • Signed contracts • Exhibitions and events • Product-related certifications • Websites and social media • Work-life balance • Intranet portals • Training and skill development • Talent satisfaction surveys • Career growth • Training programmes • Occupational health and safety • Performance appraisal reviews • Grievance redressal mechanisms • Job security • Publications and Newsletters • Transparent communication • Ethics helpline • Sustainable lifestyle choices • Timely payment • Vendor assessments and reviews • Continuity of orders • Signed contracts • Transparency • Purchase orders • On-time delivery • Exhibitions and events • Social media/websites • Environment and safety-related activities by suppliers • Local employment • Training workshops • Environmental pollution control • Regular meetings • Infrastructure development • Need assessments and reviews • Training and livelihood programme • Surveys • CSR reports • Participation in social services • Social media/websites • Social responsibility • Sustainable growth and returns • Board meetings • Risk management • Annual reports • Websites • Corporate governance • Investor Meetings • Operational performance • Participation in conferences • Low carbon emission • Integrated report • Third party reports such as CDP • Compliance with laws and regulations • Annual reports • Employment generation • Communications with regulatory bodies • Pollution prevention • Formal dialogues • Regional development • Monthly forms • Status reports Annual Report 2018-19 | 31 Materiality Broad list of aspects Methodology to determine material identified for materiality issues exercise Dalmia Bharat conducted its first materiality assessment in FY14. Greenhouse gas Alternative fuel Code of Since then, the material aspects emissions usage conduct and have been reviewed each year business ethics to stay relevant to the evolving external environment and changing stakeholder expectations. In FY19, Community Employee Employment the Group reviewed its material development diversity and and labour issues in accordance with the GRI inclusion practices sectoral guidance, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Global Cement and Land Raw material Risk Concrete Association (GCCA) and acquisition for sourcing management other aspects identified by peer mines and new organisations. In addition to the projects assessment, multiple formal and informal interactions with the senior management led to the Branding and Climate change Corporate finalisation of 12 material aspects. reputation and global governance The identified material issues were warming incorporated into Dalmia Bharat’s business model. Customer Economic Effluent relationship performance and waste management management Energy Governance Grievance efficiency and regulatory mechanism compliance Human Occupational Product rights health and innovation safety Public policy Supply chain Training and and advocacy management development Transportation Water and logistics conservation 32 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Finalised material aspects Water Climate change conservation and global warming Transportation Community and logistics development Product Occupational innovation health and safety Key material Branding and issues Air reputation emissions Governance Energy and regulatory efficiency compliance Alternative Raw fuel usage material sourcing Annual Report 2018-19 | 33 Knowledge partnerships and associations Dalmia Bharat is a member of Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), PHD Chamber of Commerce, Associated Chambers of Commerce & Industry of India (ASSOCHAM), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Cement Manufacturers Association (CMA), Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI), International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), Federation of Industry & Commerce of North Eastern Region (FINER) and Public Affairs Forum of India (PAFI). Awards and accolades 34 | Dalmia Bharat Limited It is also a member of Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA), India Business and Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI), Caring for Climate initiative of UN. The Group is also a UNGC participant, TERI Council for Business Sustainability (TERI CBS), Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition (CPLC) and a signatory to WBCSD’s WASH Pledge, EP100 and RE100. ET NOW Social Responsibility Leadership Award 1 February 2018 EY Entrepreneur Of The Year Award (manufacturing 2 category) 2017 February 2018 Gold Award in the 16th ABK AOTS CUMI 5S 3 Competition January 2018 Fastest Growing Cement Companies Large Category 4 by ASAPP Publications December 2018 Sustainability Award by ASAPP Publications 5 December 2018 Logistics team won the Adaptive Supply Chain 6 Award by CII December 2018 Craft Beton won the Contemporary Design Award 7 by Ace Luxe Design Show 2018 November 18 Best CSR Report by ET Now CSR Leadership 8 Award February 2019 CII CAP 2.0 Climate Resilient category award 9 February 2019 Annual Report 2018-19 | 35 Management discussion and analysis Indian economic overview India retained its position as the sixth-largest economy and the fastest-growing trillion-dollar economy through a major part of the year under review (except in the last quarter of 2018-19). After growing 7.2% in 2017-18, the Indian economy is estimated to have grown 6.8% in 2018-19 as per the Central Statistics Office release, May 2019. The principal developments during the year under review comprised a sustained increase in per capita incomes, decline in national inflation, steadying interest rates and weakened consumer sentiment from the second half of the financial year. The weaker sentiment was on account of a large non-banking financial company announcing its inability to address liabilities. This affected credit expansion, financial markets and consumer sentiment, which, in turn, resulted in slower GDP growth that declined to 5.8% by the fourth quarter of 2018-19, the slowest growth in a single quarter in years. In 2018, the country attracted ~US$ 42 billion in FDI inflows as per the World Investment Report, 2019. Driven by strong policy reforms, India witnessed a 23-notch jump to a record 77th position in the World Bank’s latest report on the ‘Ease of Doing Business’ that captured the performance of 190 countries. The commencement of the US-China trade war opened a new opportunity for India, particularly in the agro sector. Inflation (including food and energy prices) was estimated at 2.6% on an annual basis, one of the lowest in years and well below the Reserve Bank of India’s medium-term target of 4%. The rupee rebounded after touching a low of H74.45 to a dollar to close the financial year at H69.44. During the fiscal under review, the Indian Government continued to invest deeper in digitalisation, renewable energy capacity generation and infrastructure building. 36 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Indian economic Ujjwala Yojana and outlook Saubhagya Yojana The Indian economy appears With the help of this to be headed for sluggishness initiative, the Government in FY20. Even as a new has transformed the lives of government is expected to every rural family, dramatically remain pro-investment and improving ease of their living by pro-business resulting in a larger providing electricity and clean spending on infrastructure cooking facility to all willing build-out, an economic rural families by 2022. revival appears some quarters UDAN away. The long-term outlook This Scheme is directed towards of the country appears to providing air connectivity to be positive on account of smaller Indian cities, enabling various economic reforms, the common citizens to avail increasing aspirations, sustained the option of travelling via air. consumption momentum and Under this scheme, a number a national under-consumption of airports are likely to be across a range of products constructed. appearing to correct. (Source: CSO, Business Standard) Under the scheme, some selected airlines are expected Key government to enjoy a three-year exclusivity initiatives period on specified routes, The Indian government which will ensure no price continued to take a number of cutting. Further, aviation turbine initiatives in strengthening the fuel tax rates have been reduced national economy. in collaboration with States. Bank recapitalisation The Insolvency and scheme Bankruptcy code In addition to infusing H2.1 lakh (Amendment), Ordinance 2018 crores in public sector units, the Indian Government Passed in June 2018, the announced a capital infusion ordinance provides a significant of H70,000 Cr. to boost credit relief to home-buyers by and create a strong impetus in recognising their status as FY19. (Source: Hindu Business financial creditors. The major Line) beneficiary comprised MSMEs, empowering the Indian Expanding infrastructure Government to provide them a India’s proposed expenditure special dispensation under the of H5.97 trillion (US$ 89.7 code. (Source: PIB) billion) towards infrastructural Pradhan Mantri Kisan development in Union Samman Nidhi Budget 2018-19 is expected The Indian Government to strengthen the national announced in February 2019 economy. As of November the Pradhan Mantri Kisan 2018, the total length of Samman Nidhi, a scheme projects awarded under promising an annual assured Bharatmala Pariyojana income of H6,000 (US$ 84.5) (including residual NHDP for any farmer owning ≤2 works) was 6,460 kms for a hectares of farmland. The total cost of H1.52 trillion (US$ budget for fiscal year 2020 21.07 billion). The Government allocated H75,000 Cr. for the announced an investment scheme, benefiting ~120 of H10,000,000 Cr. (US$ 1.5 million land-owning farmer trillion) in infrastructure over the households.(Source: PIB) next five years in Budget 2019-20. (Source: IBEF) Annual Report 2018-19 | 37 Direct Benefit Transfer be catalysed by investment Affordable housing Ports The Direct Benefit Transfer growth in affordable housing, The Indian housing and The country focused on initiative re-engineered the rural development and real estate segment is being the development of the cash disbursement process infrastructure expansion. driven by the demand Sagarmala programme to in welfare schemes through The key regional drivers of emerging from India’s develop and modernise ports simpler and faster flow of India’s cement demand affordable segment across along the country’s 7,500 information / funds to ensure are expected to be Eastern, rural and urban geographies. kms long coastline. (Source: the accurate targeting of Central and Southern India. ~1.54 Cr. rural houses Moneycontrol) beneficiaries, de-duplication Further, cement prices are were constructed under the Commercial and industrial and reduction of fraud. In expected to stay stable. There Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana development FY19 alone, this scheme is was a growth in input costs in the last five years. (Source: While much of India’s estimated to have transferred during the year under review PIB) residential real estate sector >H3,00,000 Cr. and the gains that is beginning to moderate Highways remained sluggish, the to have accrued since scheme following a decline in crude In FY19, highway green shoots of the sector implementation (upto March oil costs and cheaper slag and construction and expansion comprised a demand for 2019) was estimated at pet coke availability. reached its highest pace at larger office spaces. Gross H1,41,677 Cr. (Source: www. India’s cement industry is ~30 kms per day. The Central leasing of office space was dbtbharat.gov.in) skewed towards the larger Government has estimated a record 48.1 million square that 65,000 kms of highways feet in 2018 across eight Indian cement producers, indicating an major cities. Investments in will be constructed at a cost industry overview impact of scale, brand and India’s commercial real estate Balance Sheet strength. The of >H5.35 lakh crores by India is the second largest country’s top 20 cement 2022. (Source: TOI) sector reached a decadal high producer of cement in companies accounted of ~US$ 2.6 billion during the world (after China) Rural roads for ~70% of the cement the first three quarters of with an annual installed Over the last 1000 days, the production in the country. FY19. Bengaluru, Mumbai capacity of ~500 MT. The pace of highway construction Some 210 large cement and Delhi NCR accounted for industry accounts for ~8% increased to around 28 kms plants accounted for a 70% of the total office space share of the global cement per day. PMGSY-III envisages cumulative installed capacity demand. (Source: Economic capacity. The real estate to upgrade 1,25,000 kms of of >350 MT while 350 Times) sector (including housing) road length over the next five is cement’s biggest demand smaller plants accounted for Railways years at an estimated cost of driver, accounting for the rest. Of these 210 plants, The capex of Indian Railways H80,250 Cr. (Source: PIB) ~65% of the total national 77 were located in Andhra for 2019-20 was fixed at Pradesh, Rajasthan and Tamil Metro railways consumption. The other H1,60,175 Cr. in Budget cement consumers comprise Nadu. (Source: CMA, IBEF) Currently, 10 cities in India 2019-20, the highest-ever, public infrastructure at 20% have a functional metro rail surpassing the previous year’s and industrial development Cement industry network, spanning >500 allocation of H1,48,528 Cr. at 15%. The cement industry catalysts kms. The construction of Under the proposed outlay, employs ~20,000 people Infrastructure development >660 kms across 15 cities is H7,255 Cr. was allocated for across downstream sectors under consideration. (Source: the construction of new lines, There was steady growth for every million tonne of Economic Times) gauge conversion received in the implementation cement produced. and completion of large Airports H2,200 Cr., gauge doubling infrastructure projects. The The projected passenger attracted H700 Cr., rolling Following the momentum Central Government-backed traffic (to, from and stock attracted H6,114 Cr. generated in the previous mega-infrastructure projects within India) for 2040 is and signalling and telecom year, cement demand grew like Bharatmala, Sagarmala estimated to be ~ 1.1 billion received H1,750 Cr. The 13% in FY19 on account of a and Smart Cities are passengers. On the back allocation for passenger low sales base of the previous beginning to report increased of this estimated growth, amenities increased by year (following GST impact in traction in terms of project the number of operational H1,000 Cr. to H3,422 Cr. H1FY18) and healthy growth rates coming out of Eastern award and implementation, a airports are estimated to and Southern India. Looking trend likely to sustain. reach 200 by 2040. ahead, demand growth could (Source: Ministry of Aviation) 38 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Bharatmala Pariyojana The Bharatmala Pariyojana The salient features of this The initiative aims to create • 116 feeder routes spanning (the second largest highway initiative comprised: of a network of ~42,000 ~7,600 kms of shorter feeder development project after • Identification of corridors in kms of economic corridors, routes for ensuring first/lastthe National Highway a scientific manner inter-corridors, and feeder mile connectivity Development Project) was routes across the country, The initiative also seeks to • Commodity-wise survey of launched with an outlay of comprising: decongest 185 choke points freight movement across 600 H5.35 lakh crores over a five• 44 economic corridors across the existing corridor districts, mapping shortest year period, envisaging the spanning ~26,200 kms and network with a complement routes across 12,000 routes, construction of 65,000 kms connecting economically of 28 ring roads, 45 carrying 90% of India’s of roads in the first phase. important nodes bypasses, 34 lane expansions, freight volumes, technologyAdditionally, H1.57 lakh 12 other interventions based automated traffic • 66 inter-corridor routes crores is likely to be spent on and 60+ points (yet to be surveys at 1,500+ points spanning ~8,400 kms existing projects, taking the finalised). and the satellite mapping of inter-corridor routes total expenditure to H6.92 of corridors to identify connecting economic lakh crores. upgradation requirements corridors Cement industry surge in tariffs was owing • Rise in diesel prices could could not be passed due to challenges to coal scarcity during have a direct impact on increasing competition • In 2018, pet coke prices the peak-demand period. the margins of cement remained on the higher Fuel and power prices on manufacturers. Cement Cement industry side (US$ 100-110 per average increased 15-18% manufacturers with a higher opportunities tonne) coupled with an during H1FY19 over the dependence on road freight The demand growth led increase in the total cost of corresponding period in the for the transportation of by the affordable housing imported coal by 28.7%. previous year raw materials and supply of segment is expected to This also reduced the scope finished cement to markets sustain on the back of • Although cement is a for manufacturers to offset could be impacted in the case increased governmental high-volume and low-value feedstock costs. An upward of increased diesel prices allocations. Fair monsoons product, it is also a highlymovement in US$ vis-à-vis should lead to a sustained taxed commodity, higher • The operating margin INR in the early part of the improvement in rural than luxury goods (excluding for the industry declined financial year under review prosperity. With the freight transportation, which due to the Impact of fuel, increased the delivered cost focus of government on is ~20% of the operating freight, currency and power of imported feedstock building national highways cost). The levies and taxes costs. Clinker and slag, key and freight corridors, a • Spot power prices remained in India are higher when raw materials for cement, significant contribution to the high and non-captive power compared to the Asia-Pacific encountered an increase incremental cement demand users were required to pay or developing economies like in cost in some regions, is expected from these higher power tariffs. The Pakistan and Sri Lanka impacting margins that sectors. Budgetary allocations Indian Railways was allotted Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak PMGSY-III is envisaged to upgrade a capital support of H65,837 Cr. Yojana was allocated 1,25,000 kms of road length (US$ 9.08 billion) in 2019-20 H19,000 Cr. (US$ 2.67 billion) over the next five years with an for FY20 estimated cost of H80,250 Cr. Annual Report 2018-19 | 39 North East infrastructure initiatives The Indian Government’s ‘Act East’ focus on strengthening relations with neighbouring countries helped enhance connectivity through various transportation, telecom and power projects. Airports • The North Eastern Council is a nodal agency entrusted with the responsibility of fostering economic and social development in the North East. The North Eastern Council, whose key members include the Governors and Chief Ministers of eight States, is funding the infrastructural upgradation of 12 airports • The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways completed the construction of a greenfield H300 Cr. airport at Pakyong (Sikkim), one of the five highest airports in India • The Tezu Airport (Arunachal Pradesh) ensures connectivity to districts like Lower Dibang Valley, Anjaw, Namsai and Dibang Valley, among others • Runway extension works will be taken up by the North Eastern Council at Umroi (Shillong) Airport. Work is underway to allocate hangars at Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport in Guwahati Roads • Recently inaugurated projects include the 17.47 kms Doimukh-Harmuti Road, which links Assam and Arunachal Pradesh; the 1.66 kms TuraMankachar Road connects Assam and Meghalaya. The 17.47 kms DoimukhHarmuti Road (H58.25 Cr.) provides an important link across the rivers Gumto and Gulajoly • An express highway project along the Brahmaputra River spanning across 1,300 kms (estimated outlay of H40,000 Cr.) is expected to resolve road connectivity issues in Assam • The North East Road Sector Development Scheme, launched in FY16 is a centrally-sponsored scheme for the construction/upgradation/ improvement of 433.7 kms of roads in Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura Railways • There are plans to provide a railway link for the North Eastern states through 20 major railway projects, encompassing 13 new lines, two gauge conversions and five doublings, stretching ~2,624 kms • All the capitals of North Eastern Indian states are expected to be connected by a broad gauge rail link by 2020 • 43 projects are underway within the jurisdiction of the North East Frontier Railway • Assam and Meghalaya will be connected through the Byrnihat-Shillong line whereas Manipur will be connected to Jiribam, a bridge with a pier height of 141 metres, making it the tallest rail bridge in the world 40 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Cement industry momentum in expected Dalmia Bharat is a responsible by FY21 (brownfield and outlook growth in the end-user custodian of manufacturing acquisitions). This expansion is Domestic cement demand is industries, the refractory assets, operating at 72% likely to enhance the Group’s estimated to grow at ~8% market is estimated to grow capacity utilisation in FY19. market share to an estimated in FY20, driven by housing above 6% in FY20 and FY21. 7% of the total cement The refractory business of the development, primarily in India is already the second capacity in the country at that Group dates back to 1954, the rural and affordable largest producer of steel time. when OCL commissioned segments and infrastructural with 106 MT crude steel its first refractory plant. During the year under review, development (roads, metro, production in 2018, targeted The business has grown Dalmia Bharat encountered railways, airports, ports to grow to 300 MT by 2030. into one of the largest the challenge of rising power and irrigation projects). Steel consumption grew by composite refractory plants, costs in response to which it The incremental demand of 5.7% y-o-y and reached manufacturing silica, increased the proportion of ~22-26 MT was estimated to 92.1 MT in 2018. basic-burnt, magnesia alternative fuels within its fuel be greater than incremental The other large refractory carbon, fireclay and high mix. The Group continued supply, resulting in an consumer was the country’s alumina bricks, monolithics, using alternative fuels where expected growth in capacity cement sector. India is the continuous casting, slide gate the fuel cost differential was utilisation. (Source: Hindu second largest producer of refractories, castable and more than the efficiency Business Line, ICRA) cement with the capacity of pre-cast blocks, basic and differential, strengthening the 500 MT expected to grow to high-alumina silica ramming value proposition. Global refractory 550 MT by 2020. masses/mortars and other industry overview process specific refractories Dalmia Bharat developed a The global refractories market The growth in the end-user network optimisation tool such as nozzles, snorkel and was estimated at US$ 23.3 industry was primarily driven to optimise transportation lances, among others. billion in 2018 and projected by growing urbanisation, and logistics costs, analysing to reach US$ 26.3 billion infrastructure development processes and dispatch routes Human resources by 2023, clocking a CAGR and Housing for All by 2022 in addition to conducting Dalmia Bharat believes that of 2.5% between 2018 and initiative. The growth was a sensitivity analysis. This its inherent strength lies in 2023. Refractory demand is also due to an increase in helped generate a financially a dedicated and motivated closely tied to global demand the middle-class population viable dispatch plan from its workforce. It has created a patterns of industries, leading to a sharp upswing plants to delivery destinations. holistic working environment like steel, non-ferrous in the consumption of goods Dalmia Bharat strengthened and urged its talents to go metals, cement, glass and requiring steel. its manufacturing process beyond their predetermined petrochemicals. through the proactive use of scope of work, so that Company overview cutting-edge technologies Overall market growth they could come up with A leader in cement and timely debottlenecking. is expected to be fuelled innovative ideas that brighten manufacturing since 1939, This allowed the Group by acceleration in iron long-term growth prospects. Dalmia Bharat is a prominent to moderate its electricity and steel production in cement player and one of Dalmia Bharat reduced its consumption to 70 kilowattemerging economies such the fastest growing in the talent headcount but did not hours per tonne of cement as China, India and Brazil country’s cement sector. replace the people who left produced, estimated to be and a high growth rate Dalmia Bharat’s state-of-the the organisation. Instead, it ~38% lower than the global witnessed by the non-metallic art plants are spread across chose to re-skill and assign sectoral average; the Group minerals industry. The 13 locations, servicing the new roles to existing talents, also reported thermal power growth is primarily due to growing cement appetite enhancing productivity. As consumption 12-15% lower infrastructural development, of 22 States. It is the fourth on 31st March 2019, the than the global average. industrial expansion, largest cement manufacturing total number of people construction activity in group in India and arguably employed directly were 5634 economically developing areas among the fastest growing and >9000 people were and improved prospects for from a decadal perspective. employed through contracts. these industries in developed Dalmia Bharat accounts for economies, creating a 5% of all Indian capacity Manufacturing growing demand for highshare in the areas of its operations grade refractories. presence. It carved out its From a current installed reputation as a pioneer in capacity at 26.5 MT, Dalmia India refractory the super-speciality cement Bharat intends to reinforce industry overview niche used in oil wells, railway this sectoral status through a India is an attractive refractory sleepers and air strips. planned increase in installed market. Given the continuous capacity by 40% to 37 MTPA Annual Report 2018-19 | 41 Mobile connect Dalmia Bharat strives to reinforce its sectoral position by strengthening its supply chain, automating plants and deploying best-in-class business analytics, mobility and cloud solutions to enhance real-time information availability. Several related initiatives were taken to forge stronger ties with talents, partners, dealers and customers. Suvidha app the Group track delivery Dalmia Purchase micro-details of the business This app was designed to times when there are Requisition app through text messages, help dealers improve their multiple points of delivery This app enables the senior e-mails and website updates. order lifecycle management. and ensures secure delivery management to provide Plant Logistics The app offers dealers by generating OTPs. instant approvals on Management app easing order placement and Smart-D app purchase requisitions. This app helps the Group tracking, one-tap access to This app provides a oneAnalytics exercise control across their accounts and ePOD. stop solution for assessing Dalmia Bharat integrates the logistical value chain Driver Saathi app consumer needs, allowing data from multiple from gate-in to gate-out, This app provides the Group’s sales team to applications through process helping plug weak links and transporters with instant stay in control across the automation and business moderating the average electronic proof-of-delivery, lifecycle by enabling them to analytics. It developed a turnaround time. expediting payment and track customer satisfaction robust analytical architecture feedback generation. It helps indices and secondary sales capable of providing precise information. Internal control systems and their adequacy The internal control Dalmia Bharat has a wellaudit department of the as per risk based internal framework is designed to defined organisation Group carries out the internal audit plan which is reviewed ensure proper safeguarding structure, authority levels, audit of the Group operations by the audit committee. of assets, maintaining proper internal rules and guidelines and reports its finding to The committee periodically accounting records and for conducting the business the audit committee. In this reviews the findings providing reliable financial transactions. It intends to process the internal audit also and suggestions for the information and other data. undertake further measures evaluates the functioning and improvement and is apprised This system is supplemented as necessary in line with quality of internal controls on the implementation status by internal audit, reviews its intent to adhere to and provides assurance of its in respect of the actionable by the management and procedures, guidelines and adequacy and effectiveness items. documented policies, regulations as applicable in a through periodic reporting. guidelines and procedures. transparent manner. Internal Internal audit is carried out Sustainability Reducing carbon emissions enhanced prosperity through to moderate energy use, commissioned ambient air has been a longstanding sustainable value creation. reduce costs and improve quality monitoring systems to Dalmia Bharat priority, Dalmia Bharat’s plants energy-efficiency. monitor ambient air quality resulting in proactive are ISO 14001-certified, Dalmia Bharat utilises outside its manufacturing investments in low-carbon validating its environmental industrial wastes like charcoal, facilities. It has also engaged technologies. Dalmia Bharat commitment. Most of the saw dust and shredded external accredited labs to increased the proportion of Group’s integrated plants and tyres as alternative fuel and validate that its compliance is environment-friendly blended grinding units are certified resources with the following in line with National Ambient cement in its product mix with the coveted EnMS advantages: moderated raw Air Quality Standards to ~80%. It implemented 50,001 (Energy Management material costs and carbon (NAAQMS). strategies in line with its System) accreditation, footprint. Dalmia Bharat has long-term vision of achieving indicating the Group’s ability Company outlook Riding on the back of a Dalmia Bharat is undertaking these as dispatch centres, • Developing synthetic slag projected industry growth the following initiatives to strengthening its logistical compliant with the stringent (~8% during FY20) and low strengthen its business: infrastructure without IS: 455-1989 norms, using Indian per capita cement • Undertaking ~7.8 MT of significant costs low-grade limestone in consumption (210 kilograms brownfield capacity expansion • Increasing its renewable collaboration with the compared to a global average in East India energy share as a percentage National Council for Cement of 580 kilograms), the of electricity consumed by 4x and Building Materials, • Taking ownership of Group remains optimistic of between 2015 and 2030 Haryana, allowing the Group roadside eateries within 60 prospects. to optimise costs and increase kms of its plants and use offtake 42 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Risk management Dalmia Bharat is subject to risks and uncertainties that may affect its financial performance. Its business, results of operations or financial conditions could be adversely affected by the risks described below. These are not the only risks that Dalmia Bharat faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Dalmia Bharat or considered immaterial could also impair its business and operations. Economic risk Mitigation A slowdown in the economy Assuming no major global and domestic political shocks, India’s markets are expected could reduce infrastructure to perform better due to projected earnings revival in 2019. The Indian economy is investments, decelerating growth expected to remain sluggish during FY20 but revive across the medium-term, benefiting for Dalmia Bharat. from structural reforms. Cost risk Mitigation Increasing costs could adversely Dalmia Bharat started using alternate sources of fuel like carbon black to cut fuel costs. impact Dalmia Bharat’s margins. Environmental risk Mitigation Production of cement impacts the Dalmia Bharat was the first Indian cement manufacturer to join the RE100 and is environment severely and could committed to 100% renewable electricity use. Looking ahead, the Group expects to lead to sanctions being levied emerge as carbon-negative by 2040. As a means to this end, it is increasing the share against Dalmia Bharat. of low-carbon products in its portfolio, enhancing the use of green power and judicious sourcing of raw materials. Competition risk Mitigation Intensifying competition could Dalmia Bharat has been strategically adding capacities and improving footprint across reduce Dalmia Bharat’s market the country, allowing it to maintain its growth momentum. share. Debt risk Mitigation Inability to secure capex funding A debt-equity ratio of <1 has not only enhanced Dalmia Bharat’s solvency but also credit at competitive rates could rating, resulting in enhanced access to low cost debt. jeopardise Dalmia Bharat’s growth. Talent risk Mitigation Inability to retain talents could Dalmia Bharat offers various professional development and growth opportunities to drive unfavourably impact Dalmia organisational retention. It enjoyed a retention of 89% as on 31st March 2019, one of Bharat in the long run. the best within its sector. Disclaimer Statements in management discussion and analysis describing Dalmia Bharat’s objectives, projections, estimates, expectations or predictions may be forward looking statements within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations. Actual results could differ materially from those either expressed or implied. Important factors that could make a difference to the Group’s operation include among others, economic conditions affecting demand/supply and price conditions, variation in prices of raw materials, changes in governmental regulations, tax regimes, economic developments and other incidental factors. Annual Report 2018-19 | 43 Financial capital 44 | Dalmia Bharat Limited The management’s approach Dalmia Bharat’s holistic approach to generate inclusive financial growth for all stakeholders empowered its growth into India’s fourth-largest cement producer within a compressed period of time. It emerged as one of the fastest growing cement groups in India during the last decade. Dalmia Bharat’s performance was derived from financial prudence, disciplined capital allocation and proactive investments in alternative and green energy. On one hand, some initiatives strengthened realisations and revenues, while on the other, some initiatives helped moderate production costs – a complement that enhanced overall profitability. Dalmia Bharat intends to increase cement realisations through a multi-pronged strategy encompassing the introduction of value-added products, adding premium product brands, strengthened efficiency in trade and non-trade pricing and targeted discounts, among others. It will continue to optimise fixed and variable costs through a low-cost fuel mix, increasing the share of alternative fuels, moderating cost centres and encouraging the use of lateral alternatives. Restructuring the business units into a cohesive corporate structure has enhanced tax efficiency, accounting for intangibles like goodwill and assimilating technical know-how. It has also resulted in concessional agreements while procuring resources like raw material, fuel and other assets. The consequent knowledge-sharing across different sites has led to cost optimisation. The result is that during FY19, Dalmia Bharat’s revenues increased 11% from H8,580 Cr. to H9,484 Cr., while the net debt-to-EBITDA ratio declined from 1.73 to 1.61. During FY19, the Group generated an EBITDA/tonne of H1,009 and strengthened its PAT by 20% to H349 Cr. Annual Report 2018-19 | 45 Objectives Short Medium Long Term Term Term • Reduce ‘cost of capital’ • Reduce the average cost of capacity • Achieve higher EBITDA/tonne of • Higher realisation with expansion ($/tonne of cement) cement regard to the industry • Strengthen contract management • Mitigate financial risks by average transitioning into a more sustainable • Cost optimisation portfolio of products and services Risks and opportunities Risk: Availability of quality Risk: Forex fluctuations Opportunity: Government fuel The Group is exposed to forex and private infrastructure The recent ban on pet coke has led fluctuations that could affect its projects to a reliance on imported coal earnings. Mitigation strategy Mitigation strategy Utilisation strategy • Dalmia Bharat expects to mitigate • The organisation mobilised most • A series of organic and inorganic this risk by increasing the use of of its debt in INR and hedged most expansions enabled Dalmia Bharat alternative fuels and engaging of its foreign currency borrowings. to address increasing demand. in capex to get operational • Mobilising loans at the lowest • Sustain one of the highest sites technically-ready for using possible costs on a best effort basis operating leverages and cost additional quantities of alternative optimisation • Hedging through the ‘Seagull fuels option trading strategy’ Strengthening Financial Capital The Dalmia Bharat finance team addresses day-to-day accounting, cash flow management, investor relations, fund-raising (debt and equity), tax planning, treasury management as well as mergers & acquisitions. The team incorporates social and environmental checks-and-balances to ensure a minimal impact while maximising inclusive growth. Focus areas • Reduce financial risk to • Reduce net debt-to-EBITDA • Realise government-related • Integrate newly acquired improve credit rating ratio subsidies Group sites into Dalmia Bharat During the reporting period, Dalmia Bharat was able to achieve the desired corporate structure that enabled it to optimise operations and tax efficiency. Its focus on asset management helped reduce its net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio. As a culmination of all efforts, Dalmia Bharat continued to retain its premier position with one of the highest EBITDA per tonne of cement in the country. 46 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Key financial indicators As on 31st March, 2019 Sales volume Revenue generated Market capitalisation FY17 (In MT) FY17 (H in Cr.) FY17 (H in Cr.) 15.3 7,447 17,488 FY18 FY18 FY18 16.9 8,580 25,623 FY19 FY19 FY19 18.7 9,484 19,000 EBITDA/tonne Net debt/EBITDA (x) Cost of debt (%) FY17 (In H) FY17 FY17 1,261 2.76 9.1 FY18 FY18 FY18 1,198 1.73 8.1 FY19 FY19 FY19 1,009 1.61 8.2 Profit after tax Earnings per share Net Debt-equity ratio (H Cr.) (H) (x) FY17 FY17 FY17 44 2.29 0.54 FY18 FY18 FY18 291 15.18 0.34 FY19 FY19 FY19 349 15.96 0.29 Long-term issuer rating upgraded to IND AA+ from IND AA by Fitch Annual Report 2018-19 | 47 De-risking the business Internal audit necessary. All reporting and subsequently monitored audit team ensured seamless The Dalmia Corporate entities were audited by the at regular predetermined coverage and the timely Audit Team (ISO Corporate Audit Team except intervals. The system was closure of audit findings 9001:2015-certified for ‘Calcom Cement India complemented by an external through regular support. department) undertook Limited’, which was audited audit of select functions (SAP All audit team members periodic audits (internal) by PwC. – IT ERP system and IT general complied with the audit code to ascertain the sanctity of controls). The deployment of of conduct. Business processes were processes and implement a large and capable internal categorised as Tier-I and II remedial measures wherever Legal & Secretarial meetings. Daily reports, to periodic awareness among others) as a means Dalmia Bharat’s legal & generated on the basis of programmes (insider trading of mitigating risks from secretarial department relevant newspaper reports, and competition laws, upcoming governmental is a business horizontal were circulated. Fortnightly among others) to enhance regulations. Neither Dalmia that aids project risk updates on changes in laws acquaintance with legal Bharat nor its material management through a or notifications were obtained day-to-day nuances. All subsidiaries received any series of services related from gazetted officers. talents were updated on show cause/legal notices from to litigation, compliance, Detailed reports were released the ‘Dalmia way of life’ Central or State Pollution licenses, approvals, policy to enhance subject matter comprising references to the Control Board. It was not management, documentation understanding among team Code of Conduct and Sexual subjected to significant fines and day-to-day advisory. members. Harassment Policy, among or non-monetary sanctions To stay a step ahead of the Dalmia Bharat organised others. Legal processes for non-compliance with industry, the legal system and regular workshops and and documentations were laws and/or regulations in processes were periodically training camps to build standardised and formalised the social and economic area. revamped based on new awareness on various aspects across sites, harmonising No complaints were received regulations and evolving (including competition laws). high-value international by Dalmia Bharat and/or at regulatory landscapes. Any The workshops were attended transactions. the Group-level relating to change in the regulatory by department and legal The team engaged in public child labour, forced labour, framework was discussed representatives to enhance advocacy (at an individual involuntary labour or sexual in individual and collective subject matter sensitisation. level and through associations harassment in the last reviews during weekly joint Talents were exposed such as FICCI, CII and CMA, financial year. Stakeholder complaints Received Closed % Complaints received through the ethics helpline 44 32 73% Investor complaints 99 98 99% Show-causes / legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB 5 4 80% Number of complaints relating to Nil Nil Nil Child labour Nil Nil Nil Forced labour Nil Nil Nil Involuntary labour Nil Nil Nil Sexual harassment Nil Nil Nil No penalties / strictures were would adversely impact There were no incidences and product information imposed on Dalmia Bharat Dalmia Bharat and its future of significant fines levied disclosure and labelling. by the Stock Exchanges or operations. The product or non-compliance with All emissions and waste SEBI or any statutory or information is displayed as respect to the regulations generated were within the regulatory authority on any per the standards prescribed concerning aspects related limits defined by the Pollution matter during the reporting by the Bureau of Indian to environment, labour, Control Board. period. There were no Standards (BIS). It is ensured health and safety impacts significant orders passed by that the products meet of products and services, Regulators or Courts which the necessary compliance. marketing communications, 48 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Public advocacy for the greater good At Dalmia Bharat, we believe in collaborations for achieving the collective goal of shared value creation. We make periodic suggestions and recommendations to the Central Government Ministries and Niti Aayog on aspects including (but not limited to) Ease of Doing Business, Make in India, Regulatory changes, business clearances/approvals, rationalisation of taxation / levies among others. Some proposals for amendments, change in laws/policies were as follows: Governance and administration T he case was taken up with the Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade for inclusion of Composite Cement in RCC, highlighting the benefits of Ground Granulated Blast Furnace Slag (GGBS) and fly-ash in composite cement as well as suitability for construction work in RCC and underground Use of Composite Cement construction. in Reinforced Concrete Construction (RCC) Going by the Reduce, Reuse and Recycle principle, Composite Cement reuses and recycles fly ash and Ground Blast Furnace Slag, leading to sustainable growth and mineral resource saving. Unregulated on-site mixing, defying the BIS control mechanism, led to poor infrastructure quality for which Dalmia Bharat advocated, regulated and controlled mixing through computerised batching process coupled with audit trails. D almia Bharat represented to Niti Aayog our concern related to fly-ash being exported by traders, leading to lower supplies for domestic cement manufacturing units resulting in inflation. Flyash The matter was taken up with Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to address the anomaly in the prices of fly ash. The Ministry constituted an expert committee to develop a focused strategy for the most judicious utilisation of fly ash and recommended a preference for end users like the country’s domestic cement industry over traders. This is expected to address concerns related to a shortage of fly ash. D almia Bharat pushed for a level playing field with respect to mineral concessions for public sector units and private sector companies through the New Mineral Policy 2019 (NMP-2019), which emphasises transparency and fair play in reserving areas for State agencies. Further, the NMP-2019 Open areas reserved for PSUs provides a thrust for the extraction of mineral resources. The Policy also states that conservation of minerals shall be construed not in a restrictive sense of abstinence from consumption or preservation for future use. T hrough the industry’s representative body (Cement Manufacturers’ Association) Dalmia Bharat represented to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to permit the regulated import of pet coke for Permission to use pet coke in cement manufacture use in the cement industry on account of its superiority to coal. Annual Report 2018-19 | 49 5) Inclusion of cement in Merchandise Exports from India D almia Bharat engaged with industry associations like FICCI to represent to Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion to extend benefits of the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme to cement. Scheme (MEIS) Economic reforms seamless transition, and restricted on a royalty basis reserves rather than the Regulation for Grant of blocks for auction should only. The State Government resources. Mineral Concessions have pre-embedded statutory cannot devise/introduce a Dalmia Bharat advocated Dalmia Bharat advocates the clearances in line with the factor other than what is the cause of additional New Mineral Policy (NMP) vision of NMP-2019 to double governed by the Mines and transparency and reduced 2019, which emphasises production in seven years. Minerals (Development and financial implications in the creation of a regulatory Regulation) Act (MMDR) Rationalisation of levies transferring mining leases environment conducive to Act. Besides, all reserves and taxes by allowing transfers for PL the ease of doing business. are not extractable and To combat a rise in costs and LOI cases. The transfer It recommended that are significantly less than due to levies and taxes, of ML needs to be allowed procedures for the grant the mineable resources. Dalmia Bharat advocated without financial implications of mineral concessions Therefore, such payments are that Stamp Duty charges be (0%) as was prevalent prior should be transparent with to be linked to the mineable 50 | Dalmia Bharat Limited to the enactment of MMDR manufacturers. Dalmia Rules, 2016 (MCR). It are located. Dalmia Bharat Amendment Act, 2015. Bharat advocated that recommended that these advocated that in the DMF The proposal is in sync with the Government consider mines be considered as Monitoring Committee, NMP 2019, which promotes dis-incentivising cement captive in line with the the managements of Mines the merger and acquisition imports by levying a Basic judgement of Hon’ble contributing to the fund of mining entities and the Customs Duty and formulate Supreme Court dated 6th July needed to be co-opted as transparent transfer of mining a mechanism wherein entry 2011 in WP (C) 202/1995 in members,ensuring that leases. points of imported cement TN Godavarman Thirumulpad benefits reached the affected be capped (whether through matter of Lafarge Umiam local mining community. Dis-incentivising import of land routes or sea routes or Mining Pvt. Ltd. Vs Union of cement from Pakistan and The respective industries both). India, which could reduce the Bangladesh could be permitted to take average sales price by C200/ While cement can be Average sale price of part in the development of tonne. imported duty-free into cement grade limestone mine-affected areas and India from Pakistan and Dalmia Bharat advocated Inclusive development the said funds could be Bangladesh, these countries for non-consideration of policy adjusted against the District levied significant customs Meghalaya mines in the Utilisation of District Mineral Fund payment to the duty (20%-25%) on cement non-captive category in Mineral Fund Government. exports from India. The result the calculation of average There was an issue of no is that imports have risen, sales price of cement grade infrastructural/ societal leading to disturbances limestone, abiding by Rule development in the villages for domestic cement 38 of Minerals Concessions / areas where the mines Third clinkerisation line at Rajgangpur under construction Annual Report 2018-19 | 51 Natural capital 52 | Dalmia Bharat Limited The management’s approach Dalmia Bharat’s overarching focus lies in consuming less and manufacturing more while minimising environment impact. It is the Group’s conviction that the most successful, profitable and sustainable companies are ones benchmarked with the most stringent environmental standards. Dalmia Bharat has progressively been producing cement with ‘greener’ alternatives. It invested in low-carbon technologies that translated into enhanced resource and energy efficiency. It also increased the proportion of environment-friendly blended cement in its product mix to ~80%, reducing its carbon footprint while addressing waste disposal issues of other industries. The risk mitigation policies were outlined keeping in mind its long-term vision on the one hand and enhanced sustainability-driven prosperity on the other. During the year under review, Dalmia Bharat’s plants were ISO 14001 certified. The environmental aspects and impacts of operations were regularly evaluated and mitigation plans developed. The overall system was certified by a third-party at regular intervals. The Environmental Management System comprised provisions to cover foreseeable emergency situations (including those with an environmental impact). Most integrated plants and grinding units were certified with ISO 50001 (EnMS), an internationally-recognised management system that allows baseline development, selection of energy performance indicators, management review and continued improvements at the systemic level. Annual Report 2018-19 | 53 India’s Nationally Dalmia Determined Determined Contributions (DDC)* Sustainable Contributors Become Carbon Negative by 2040 Development (NDC) Reduce GHG emission intensity by 33.5% Goal • Reduce the emissions from the 2010 level intensity of its GDP by 3,300 bps to 35% by Committed to EP100: Doubling Energy 2030 from the 2005 level productivity by 2030 Specific power consumption per tonne of cementitious material reduced to 71.1 kWh 13 • Renewable power target Committed to RE100: Switch to 100% RE of 175 GW by 2022 consuming company by 2030 CLIMATE • 8 MW of installed solar capacity ACTION • 9.2 MW of installed waste heat recovery capacity • 30 MW waste heat recovery under execution • Focus on adaptation efforts, such as optimising • No new thermal installation water use efficiency while Become 10x water-positive by 2030 safeguarding Himalayan • Currently a water positive Group through glaciers and the mountain water harvesting and conservation ecosystem interventions implemented at site, mines and community locations • Dalmia Bharat has created a cumulative water recharge potential of approximately five times of its annual water consumption * Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited Fig: Mapping with India’s climate change goals Objectives Strategic objectives Short Medium Long Term Term Term • To optimise waste • Encourage the adoption of EHS • Doubling energy productivity by and increase the use of aspects across the supply chain 2030 alternative fuels • Enhance the use of sustainable • Switch to 100% renewable energy • To become 10x water biomass to replace fossil fuels by 2030 positive by 2030 • To become a carbon-negative cement group by 2040 54 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Risks and opportunities Risk: Air emissions Risk: Raw material Risk: Fuel availability Stricter legal and regulatory norms Limited availability of natural Continued availability of quality fuel leading to financial and operational resources such as limestone at reasonable prices risk Mitigation strategy Mitigation strategy Mitigation strategy • Investment in new technologies • Research and development to • Implement a flexible approach to reduce air and GHG emissions recycle and reutilise waste and towards fuel consumption with increase the use of alternative raw the implementation of suitable materials technologies such as multi-fuel • Acquisition and exploration of feeding systems and burners to virgin mining lease areas optimise the fuel mix; experiment with new and alternative fuels Responsible utilisation Dalmia Bharat emphasises material and resource efficiency: the production of the maximum cement with minimum resources. It undertook focused efforts in reducing the clinker factor and increasing the percentage of blended cement in its product mix along with the incremental addition of blending materials per tonne of cement. As clinker is an energy-intensive material and the main source of CO2 emissions in the cement manufacturing process, a reduction in the clinker factor proved to be key in carbon footprint reduction. Dalmia Bharat achieved a clinker factor of 64% in 2018-19, among the best within its sector in the world. 1.8 MT 2 MT 289 million of Kiln fuel Fly ash consumed Packaging bags 18.7 MT 4.3 MT 11.8 MT Cement produced Slag consumed Clinker consumed *The figures pertain to FY19 From waste to alternative fuels Cement plants act as Dalmia Bharat engages with consumption by ≤60%, Waste disposed to ‘industrial scavengers’, the iron and steel, petroleum, replacing it with waste wood. authorised recyclers profitably utilising waste power, pharmaceutical and At Dalmia Bharat, waste from other industries. By aluminium sectors to utilise co-processing is done in an re-purposing waste through their wastes. It increased the environment-friendly manner. alternative fuels and raw share of plastic waste in the The plant at Ariyalur was materials, Dalmia Bharat has past few years; Alternate the first in India to engage strengthened its commitment Fuels Rate and Raw Materials Hazardous waste in a trail burn study for coto a cleaner world and (AFR) growth is expected to 113 tonnes in FY18 processing tannery ETP sludge minimised carbon footprint. increase to 3x in the near 109 tonnes in FY19 in the presence of CPCB future. At the Bokaro plant, officials. Dalmia Bharat reduced diesel Other waste recycling initiatives Waste paper, old newspapers, collected. The points were, was an ongoing activity. magazines and cardboard, in turn, redeemable against It followed structured and among others,were recycled stationery products authorised e-waste disposal Non-hazardous waste aggregated by an authorised like pens, calendars and to the authorised recyclers. 13,045 tonnes in FY18 recycling agency; points were writing pads, among others. 12,654 tonnes in FY19 awarded in lieu of the waste This drive (initiated in 2014) Annual Report 2018-19 | 55 Dalmiapuram: Moving Rajgangpur: LD slag utilisation for clinker towards green fuel production At the Dalmiapuram plant, Dalmia Bharat LD slag is a by-product of the Linz-Donawitz process, constantly uses carbon black, process waste, fibre produced as pig iron is processed into crude steel. It is already a fused reinforced polymer (FRP) waste, footwear material and contains phases such as C3S and C2S, which are similar to waste, spent wash, GEPIL solid waste mix, clinker. Dalmia Bharat started using LD slag for clinker production in its refuse-derived fuel (RDF), GEPIL dry waste mix Rajgangpur plant in 2018-19, which resulted in the following benefits: liquid, palm bunch, CPP DFA and chocolate • 2% substitution of naturally occurring limestone wrapper as alternative fuel. In doing so, the • Reduction of specific heat consumption by 10 kcal/kg of clinker plant achieved a thermal substitution rate • Reduction of NOx emission by 50-70 mg/nm3 (TSR) of 5.28% in FY19. • Superior return on investment and reduction in variable costs Enhancing energy efficiency Cement production is an energy-intensive manufacturing process. Dalmia Bharat has focused on increasing energy efficiency by investing in low carbon technologies. Some of its newly-commissioned plants are among the best performers in terms of energyefficiency in India’s cement industry. Its energy productivity increased substantially over the last decade; ~70% of its electric energy requirements in FY19 were met by captive power plants. Dalmia Bharat’s prudent investment in cutting-edge technologies helped moderate electricity consumption across manufacturing locations. Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited was the Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited was the first cement company to be a signatory first cement company to join RE100, to EP100, voluntarily committing to aiming to make a long-term transition to EP100 doubling energy productivity by 2030. RE100 100% renewable power by 2030. Energy conservation interventions Compressor power Installation of Operationalisation Single raw meal silo Installation of optimisation variable frequency of turbo blowers operation instead occupancy sensors drives instead of positive of two for raw in load centres displacement meal blending and blowers extraction 977 GWh 446 GWh 1,314 GWh Power produced Power purchased Power consumed within by CPP in FY19 from grid in FY19 the cement plant Minimising water use At Dalmia Bharat, prudent extends beyond its operations through a variety of sources resolves to maintain zero water management to making a positive impact comprising surface water, water discharge systems at comprises an active on water resources across underground water, all its plant and reuse treated commitment to reduce the catchment areas of its municipal networks, water (in cement mills, coal freshwater consumption and manufacturing facilities. rain water and recycled mill water sprays, green build rainwater harvesting water. Through various belt development and dust Dalmia Bharat’s water structures. Its respect for interventions, it minimises suppression activities in mines appetite (process and superior water management water consumption and and internal roads). domestic) is addressed 56 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Water conservation interventions Installation Automated Provisions to Air cooling of air cooled float valve avoid water instead of condensers overflow from water cooling in the captive tanks of gas power plants FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 1.91 mn m3 1.98 mn m3 0.65 mn m3 0.92 mn m3 Water withdrawal Water recycled (Excluding consumption from water harvested within plant and mines) A water-positive company A few years ago, Dalmia level, Dalmia Bharat’s aim is water consumption at our or captive power plants or Bharat embarked on a to make each plant watercement plants, captive power consumption in its residential mission to attain waterpositive. This would help plants and domestic water colonies. Dalmia Bharat’s CSR positive operations across each plant provide additional consumption in our colonies. wing undertook various water every single integrated Dalmia water to local communities, conservation projects that The rainwater harvested in Bharat cement plant. The reducing water stress for local enhanced water security. the plants was channelised result is that Dalmia Bharat businesses and communities. towards community emerged as a water-positive The rain water harvesting initiatives, this being more company in FY17. Even potential in our plants, mines than the annual water though it attained waterand community initiatives consumption at the cement positive status at the Groupis more than the annual 11.1 3.2 Number of Cumulative water Aggregate rainwater 08 water-positive plants million m3 harvesting and conservation potential million m3 harvesting potential developed (plant and (CSR) mines) Commitment to minimising the impact of climate change Dalmia Bharat’s long-term Group-level carbon footprint plants, captive power Dalmia Bharat also estimated plan addresses climate was 546 kilograms of plants and mines under carbon dioxide emissions change. It is determined to carbon dioxide per tonne of Scope-1 and Scope-2 across nine categories of convert this challenge into cementitious product in FY19. emissions;greenhouse gas Scope 3, reporting them an opportunity, setting it Its Eastern India operations emissions associated with annually to CDP. The Scope firmly towards sustainability regularly achieved one of purchased clinker were 3 carbon dioxide emissions while enhancing stakeholder the lowest carbon footprints counted under indirect reported for nine categories respect. across all the Group’s plants. emissions based on the for Dalmia Bharat stood at cement CO2 and Energy 1.4 MT for FY19. Dalmia Bharat emerged as a Dalmia Bharat captured Protocol of the Cement global benchmark in carbon and monitored emissions Sustainability Initiative (CSI). footprint moderation. The data from all cement Annual Report 2018-19 | 57 GHG Emission Unit FY18 FY19 Scope I Emission million tCO2/year 10.31 11.21 Scope II Emission million tCO2/year 0.44 0.51 Dalmia Bharat was recognised by CDP as one Dalmia Bharat at COP24 of the most futuristic cement groups globally The CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is a Dalmia Bharat and ING non-profit organisation running a global disclosure Bank were invited by the system that enables companies, cities, states and regions United Nations as nonto measure and manage their environmental impact. The party stakeholders to share CDP has built the most comprehensive collection of selfclimate actions before 195 reported environmental data in the world. national representatives Dalmia Bharat was ranked #1 in FY18 in the global in the opening of cement sector by CDP for our low carbon footprint Global Climate Action. cement production and business readiness for low Our presence at COP24 and taking up the sustainability carbon transition. The Global Cement Sector Report of challenges at the global platform reflects on the Group’s CDP stated: “Dalmia Bharat comes first by a distance, vision of laying the foundation for a cleaner and greener performing well on a number of metrics. It scores best on future. In line with the commitment to environment and Scope 1 emissions intensity with both the lowest current climate change, the Group has have taken a bold ambition level and the steepest decline since 2012. It makes most to become a carbon-negative cement group by 2040. use of alternative materials and has the best emission “If you can imagine it, you can achieve it” profile against International Energy Agency’s (IEA) Mr. Mahendra Singhi MD and CEO, DCBL at COP24 2-degree targets out to 2030”. Minimising air emissions Dalmia Bharat has equipped Standards (NAAQMS) by absorbed in the lime shower controls such as electrostatic all its plants with Continuous external accredited labs. in the pyro-processing. It also precipitators (ESPs) and bag Emission Monitoring Systems reduces the gypsum use in filters Controlling NOx emissions the blending process to make (CEMS) across process stacks. Controlling fugitive dust • Optimisation of pyrocement These CEMS provided realprocessing • Used silos for raw and time emission statuses. Other Controlling particulate finished products • Control of burning zone than CEMS, it installed Air matter (dust) • Concretised hauling roads temperature Quality Monitoring Systems • Covered conveyer belts at • Homogenisation of raw • Swept machines and (AAQMS) within the plant all plants material and fuel mix crushing ramps with tyre premises. Regular ambient • Closed sheds for limestone washers and cattle traps to • Using low-NOx burners stacking and other raw avoid fugitive emissions air quality monitoring was done at the plants as per the Controlling SOx emissions material storage National Ambient Air Quality • SOx emissions get • Used pollutant emission Meghalaya: Enhancement of ESP cooler efficiency and saving cost: Dalmia Bharat’s plant at Meghalaya explored the possibility of enhancing the performance of ESPs. It installed three phase transformers instead of two phase transformers, which proved to be economical and effective in improving ESP performance. The result was that emissions moderated from 47 milligrams per cubic metre to 17 milligrams per cubic metre and translated into attractive cost savings. 58 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Preserving land and biodiversity Dalmia Bharat acknowledges save the environment and • Planted and adopted 100 that as a global corporate leave the world greener world trees in Delhi-NCR citizen, its responsibility is In memory of the late for succeeding generations. • Deployed 20 talents for to implement practices that Mr. Jaidayal Dalmia, Dalmia It associated with the Give collecting seeds and seedlings lead to the preservation of Bharat celebrates 11th Me Trees Trust to adopt tree of native Indian plant species land and biodiversity. None clusters across Delhi-NCR to be planted across the December each year as the of its current operations were under the #Breathe Green country ‘Day of Giving’ across the located near areas of high campaign. As a part of this • Conducted a session on Group. On this day, talents biodiversity value. campaign, Dalmia Bharat: kitchen waste composting at pledge their commitment to the head office Creation of bird habitats Dalmia Bharat embarked habitat that can host and Ariyalur and can enhance biodiversity and ecosystems, on a project that envisions propagate biodiversity across neighbourhood value not but also by providing rich development of an a region in a natural way. only by hosting diverse forest produce for the benefit ecologically vibrant bird This initiative was started in bird species and associated of local communities. Benefits of Dalmia Bharat’s bird habitat in Ariyalur and Rajgangpur • The economic benefits surface and sub-surface water • The cost of degradation mitigation and adaptation, resulting from the restoration can improve substantially avoidance is lower than helping reduce the risk of of degraded ecosystems can • Increased food and water spending on ecosystem extreme events potentially be several times security could result in the restoration (when species • Health improvement of the more than the costs, as development of the local and their assemblages and local community and multiple nature provides ecological community and environment functions cannot be fully co-benefits to society, ranging services at almost no cost recovered) from improved livelihoods • Enhanced carbon sinks and with respect to man-made or • Protecting and restoring and employment generation socio-ecological resilience can analogue systems natural capital plays an help mitigate climate change • Quality and quantity of important role in disaster Holistic biodiversity conservation approach Soil & slope management • Soil erosion control measures • Soil health & nutrition development • Bench slope stabilisation • Top soil development • Mitigate dust pollution Water management • Watershed management • Water retention structures like gabion walls, etc. • Preventing contamination of ground water • Increase ground water infiltration Vegetation management • Increase land productivity • Enhance microclimate and biodiversity • Endemic vegetation establishment • Establish native habitats • Carbon sequestration Annual Report 2018-19 | 59 Human capital 60 | Dalmia Bharat Limited The management’s approach Throughout our eight decades of operations, we pride ourselves as being an organisation with a combination of Indian tradition, values, state-ofthe-art technology, systems and processes. Dalmia is a recognised brand on national and international platforms for its ‘New Think’ philosophy. It believes that technology represents the catalyst for achieving our vision. Technology is not just a tool for increasing productivity or efficiency but for driving the organisational culture and value system. The Dalmia Bharat culture promotes sustained excellence and innovation through the use of ‘next generation’ technology. It is progressing towards a system where technology will drive the four values of Integrity, Trust & Respect, Humility and Commitment. Dalmia Bharat’s vision is to use technology to improve the overall talent experience. This has changed the way we acquire and enable our talents while almost doubling the speed of HR service delivery. Talent relations is motivated towards building culture and nurturing talent. We foster learning and change to create leaders who will be willingly followed and not leaders who just command and lead. We support talent around holistic development. Our talent acquisitions are planned on the basis of existing and emerging role requirements. We believe effective communication can increase talent engagement, drive business growth and productivity. We foster a dynamic high-performing setting in which open discussions form the basis of communication. We inculcate values to align individuals and corporate growth. We nurture individual development through challenging, connecting and coaching. We provide a safe and healthy working environment for our talents. Annual Report 2018-19 | 61 Objectives Short Medium Long Term Term Term • Reduce safety incidents (fatalities, • Enhance talent engagement • Emerge as a preferred employer loss time injury frequency rate interventions to promote well• Unleash and harness complete (LTIFR) etc.) being and satisfaction potential of talent • Increase intervention hours • Provide talents with a zero• Create leaders of the future per talent pertaining to safety, harm environment technical, behavioural, leadership • Reduce attrition and human rights Risks and Opportunities Risk Mitigation strategy Opportunity Occupational Health and Safety Occupational health and safety Developing a tech savvy, dynamic • Fatalities and LTIFR in the cement Implementing regular intervention and change-ready organisation plants and across the value chain. and awareness programs to ensure with a strong value system employee health and well-being. Human rights Utilisation strategy • Implementation of human rights Human rights Employee engagement and across the business value chain Implementing regular awareness intervention programs targeted at including third party contractors, the needs and aspirations of the programs to align with universal suppliers and other vendors talents and the organisation labour norms. Safety Dalmia Bharat believes that every single day. The two enhance safety across the deployment of a line the most significant indicator fatalities of contractuals in business units. A Safety manager responsible for of operational success is FY19 were comprehensively Committee, headed by the safety, driver and contractor safety. It invests continuous investigated and corrective senior management, was safety initiatives along with efforts in the safe and actions implemented to created to review safety the implementation of the responsible manufacturing prevent recurrence. The safety action plans each month. It DuPont Model across plants. of products. It is committed of its human capital remained periodically monitored health, It sought to introduce more to a target of zero harm. The its paramount priority. safety and environment interventions in line with Group ensures that every performance. Dalmia evolving requirements. Dalmia Bharat outlined individual is returned home Bharat instituted best-ina multi-year roadmap to safely from the workplace class practices comprising FY18 FY19 0.30 1 68 0.38 2 80 LTIFR Fatality Safety intervention LTIFR Fatality Safety intervention hours per talent hours per talent The above figures correspond to regular and contractual talents 62 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat instituted an Incident Management System focused on continuous monitoring and the reporting of unforeseen incidents coupled with documentation and their prospective incorporation. Dalmia Bharat believes knowledge, skills and experience enhance safety. It implemented 68 and 80 hours of safety interventions per talent in FY18 and FY19 respectively across manufacturing units and the corporate office. During both years, safety and skill upgradation intervention was imparted to around 100% of the permanent and contract talents. It shared best practices of business partners, suppliers, contractors and vendors with the objective to achieve zero fatalities. Standardisation of Personal Truck yard Logistics Improved Protective development safety maintenance Equipment (PPE) Focus areas of safety Quality of life at Dalmia Bharat Dalmia Bharat believes that Superannuation Fund and contributed towards gratuity Dalmia Bharat did not provide strengthening the quality Employees’ State Insurance. and provident funds. Women the same employment of life enhances talent talents were provided six benefits to contractual The entire Dalmia Bharat motivation, engagement months of maternity leave; talents as it did to permanent workforce was covered by and retention. It provides male talents were eligible for talents. However, the benefits health and life insurance talents with competitive five days of paternity leave. provided to contractual benefits. The contract talents compensation and benefits Leave encashment including talents remained competitive were covered under the comprising contribution compensated absences were with local and sectoral Workers’ Compensation towards a Pension provided based on valuation realities. Policy. Dalmia Cement Fund, Provident Fund, at the year-end. Provident Fund Trust Human relations guidelines and management Dalmia Bharat is committed to a ‘New Think’ philosophy in all walks of its business. It put in place an effective and cyclical human resource management process with predefined benefits and outcomes. Dalmia Bharat supported talents in coordination with superiors. It used its performance evaluation mechanism in setting objectives and aligning them with overall organisational targets and outcomes. Partnering in Transformation: Focus on New Think Joning On Boarding Identity Learning Shift from Shift from hire Shift from job Shift from formalities to & recruit to description to training to experience acquiring talent job role change for a role Policies HQ Reward Bell curve Processes Shift from rules Shift from Shift from Shift from Shift from to guidelines satisfaction compensation forced ranking manual to to employee survey to to rating automated passion benchmarking for actual online processes performance Communication with talents Dalmia Bharat ensured that all communications with talents was conducted through transparent and appropriate channels. A talent interaction forum helped all senior executives, including the Managing Director, communicate on various issues with the talents. Various awards were instituted for rewarding teams for outstanding performance. Regular surveys were conducted by international agencies to assess the working environment and comfort level of the talents. A 360˚ programme encouraged subordinates to express views about their managers. A minimum notice period of 21 days was typically provided to talents prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. Annual Report 2018-19 | 63 Digital interventions Talent Talent Learning Talent Development Management Talent Talent Acquisition Rewards WE ARE A DIGITALLY Performance Talent Measurement Culture TRANSFORMED HR FUNCTION While talent management to be a key focus area for Dalmia Bharat’s efforts in ease of working in homes systems in most of Dalmia Bharat. It shifted to leveraging social media and on-field. Dalmia Bharat manufacturing industries an Oracle-based platform for talent acquisition revamped 36 sales offices experienced incremental and linked it to SAP to moderated costs. This through its technology-driven progress, Dalmia Bharat get individual reports for tectonic shift helped Dalmia culture, which accelerated moved towards the each talent regarding their Bharat reduce overheads resolutions of talent issues implementation of an AIperformance and needs. and infrastructure costs. By in a transparent, speedy and driven solution platform. Dalmia Bharat aspired to drive equipping the sales force accurate manner. Digital HR systems and seamless talent engagement with technology-enabled processes will continue with minimal complexity. tools, it enhanced their Respecting human rights Enhancing talent development Dalmia Bharat respects the functions, ensured that all Dalmia Bharat believes that human capital is a strategic, rights of talents across its basic human rights were competitive and unique advantage. It selected to build leaders value chain, community upheld across operations. through its Leadership, Learning & Change (LLC) intervention members and other program. Dalmia Bharat did not engage individuals impacted by its individuals below 18 years operations. It conducted 5 at any of its units. No talent its business in a sociallyIntervention was made to work against operations responsible manner. It her or his will or work as a remained committed to bonded labourer. The terms the facilitation of human 4 6 and conditions relating to rights as an essential Performance talent engagement were Intervention principle in engagements delivery management communicated before along the supply chain recruitment. Contractual through intervention and personnel were screened the application of standard to protect their rights while policies and practices. The suppliers were encouraged to team ensured that human not hire child labourers. 3 1 rights were periodically Intervention Curriculum advocated and strengthened. planning on need identification Dalmia Bharat’s Human Relations and Legal & 2 Compliance departments, Intervention on solution in partnership with other planning 64 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat launched Nalanda, Dalmia School of Leadership, Learning, and Change (LLC) in August 2014. This institution developed influential Group leaders NALANDA Leadership, Learning & Change by instilling a learning culture and motivating them to become transformative agents. The curriculum comprised external focus, strategic thinking, innovation, creativity, inclusiveness, sales strategy, production skills, P&L-focused leadership and performance through ownership. The LLC rolled out regular initiatives across business units and locations. Lakshya Advanced Shikhar Accelerated DTTI Dalmia Technical Leadership Program for star Development Program for Training Institute performers manufacturing talent An exciting journey to become high Shikhar is an accelerated career The goal of this training institute is impact leaders was launched in 2014, development journey for highto impart skills training for Dalmia a 15-month intensive leadership potential technical talents in Dalmia Bharat’s talents at the plant-level. journey wherein star performers – Bharat’s cement plants. The objective This ongoing programme comprised handpicked from across the group is to create a pool of internal leaders, training drills conducted by in-house through due processes – were made who can move to manufacturing specialists, external veterans and to go through a rigorous intervention leadership roles in 2-3 years. The domain experts. program facilitated by renowned program focused on behavioural and external agencies at Nalanda LLC. This technical competencies, including program acted as a ‘finishing school’ specialised courses at National Council for our top performers and created for Cement and Building Materials, a pipeline of leaders who filled slots Faridabad. in the Critical To Business succession plan. Prarambh Dalmia summer internship programme Helping students gain practical experience through live projects and mentoring Dalmia Bharat offered students an opportunity to apply their knowledge through live business projects and gain invaluable experience. Prarambh’s two-month programme requires interns to work on a live business project under the guidance of an assigned project mentor. The programme comprised the following components: • Two in-person sessions • Two-month live project under the guidance of the assigned project mentor • Plant/market visits • Interim reviews • Virtual learning sessions Interns, on the successful completion of their projects, could be considered for pre-placement interviews based on the feedback from their project mentors. FY18 FY19 12 13.2 16.4 14.3 Intervention Intervention Intervention Intervention hours/ hours/ contract hours/ hours/ contract permanent talent permanent talent talent talent Annual Report 2018-19 | 65 Engaging with talents Dalmia Bharat’s human resource management strategy fostered the ‘Dalmia way of life’ across business units and corporate offices. Through multiple interventions, the unique culture was periodically reinforced among talents. It engaged periodically with its workforce through open and transparent communication channels to address needs . Relations with trade Dalmia Cement National functioned at the Rajgangpur such association(s). In the unions Workers Union (affiliated facility. 58% and 55% of units, where there is no Dalmia Bharat respects the to the INTUC-Congress the permanent talents were formal union, the Works right of its talents to form Party) is the recognised members of these recognised Committee ensured periodic and participate in a union. Its union at Dalmiapuram. Two unions at Dalmiapuram and communication with the Dalmiapuram and Rajgangpur recognised unions the Rajgangpur, respectively. talents. Dalmia Bharat did units comprised trade unions Gangpur Shramika Sangha Around 21% of the not receive any complaints to resolve talent issues (BMS) and the Lanjiberna permanent employees of regarding labour practices through collective bargaining. Shramik Sangh (INTUC) the Group are members of during the reporting period. Diversity and inclusion Dalmia Bharat encourages diversity through the recruitment of women, individuals from underprivileged sections and the specially-abled. As on 31st March 2019, it employed 5,634 people, of which 224 were women. Among newly-hired talents, 4.6% were women. As on March 31, 2019, there were 9,734 contract talents working for Dalmia Bharat. Dalmia Bharat ensured there was no discrimination in remuneration between male and female talents across locations. As on March 31, 2019, there were two permanent talents with disabilities working for Dalmia Bharat and 11 for the Group FY18 FY19 5,583 214 5,410 224 Male Female Male Female *The above figures correspond to only regular talents (contractual not included) Total workforce by age group (FY19) <30 YEARS 30-50 YEARS >50 YEARS 1854 870 653 681 723 202 190 125 114 3 47 85 19 35 33 SENIOR MIDDLE JUNIOR STAFF WORKERS MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT 66 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Attracting and retaining talent Dalmia Bharat’s existence is focused on a priority ‘to help unleash the potential of everyone we touch’. Dalmia Bharat played a vital role in talent development through multiple interventions comprising assessment, coaching, classroom programmes and action learning projects. It conducted multiple wellness programmes to improve physical, mental and spiritual well-being. An essential step towards talent retention comprised periodic performance evaluation and appraisal. Dalmia Bharat strengthened its performance appraisal review system, where talents agreed to year-start objectives and were assigned managers to review their performance. During FY18, 4,256 talents were covered by the annual performance review; during FY19, 4,378 talents were similarly covered. 11.86 % New hires by age New hires by age FY18 Talent Group FY19 Group FY18 turnover rate 257 239 229 234 11.50 % 22 21 FY19 Talent turnover rate <30 YEARS 30-50 YEARS >50 YEARS <30 YEARS 30-50 YEARS >50 YEARS Celebrations and activities Annual Report 2018-19 | 67 Intellectual capital 68 | Dalmia Bharat Limited The management’s approach Innovation represents the cornerstone of Dalmia Bharat. Over the years, Dalmia Bharat aspired to delight consumers with best-in-class cement. The solutions enabled the Group to capture new markets, command higher margins and minimise carbon-footprint. Dalmia Bharat’s team comprised members handpicked from different industrial sectors. Periodic collaborations with industrial and academic institutions as well as attendance in recognised forums, technical seminars and customer outreach programmes, among others, empowered the Group to respond to latest developments, comprehend trends and deliver relevant solutions quicker. Academic partnerships • IIT Chennai • IIT Delhi • CBRI, Roorkee • EPFL, Switzerland Professional tie-ups • Bureau Veritas Construction Services, Mumbai • Shriram Institute of Industrial Research, Delhi • Spectro Analytical lab, Delhi and Mumbai Dalmia Bharat expects to stay ahead of the curve through proactive investments. During the reporting period, it invested H7 Cr. to promote R&D activities across three research centres, three robotic labs and 14 labs. Annual Report 2018-19 | 69 Objectives Short Medium Long Term Term Term • Increase market share for value• Foster academic and industrial • Strengthen R&D team to added products like Dalmia DSP partnerships to transition to a reduce gestation time for the and Dalmla Infra Green sustainable portfolio of products introduction of value-added and services products • Digitalise the Dalmia Bharat value chain through applications • Introduce products to address • lntroduce high-performance like Suvidha emerging sectoral needs building materials • Strengthen the value chain for Craft Beton Risks and Opportunities Risk: Commoditisation of Risk: Quaility beyond Opportunity: New consumer traditional products compliance segments and higher The fiercely competitive nature of It has become imperative to deliver resource utilisation through the industry eroded margins for relevant solutions marked by value-added products traditional cement products qualitative consistency Sectoral peers are transitoning to value-added products uniquely suited to their interests Mitigation strategy Mitigation strategy Utilisation strategy • Introduced value-added products • Operationalised internal quality • Offer products around like Dalmia DSP, Dalmia Infra monitoring parameters (IQMP) at international standards, ensure Green, and Dalmia Skim Coat each plant for defining raw mix minimal ecological impact and designs, kiln feeds and clinker ensure consistency under the • Strengthened the R&D team quality, replicating a reliable output product suite of Dalmia InnoBuild to reduce gestation time for the introduction of value-added in every cycle • Leverage day-to-day experiences products and the intermingling of • Ensured improved control over professional expertise from a variety the process and product quality of industrial backgrounds to enable through an investment in robotic incremental and path-breaking laboratories, online analysers and improvements clinkerisation facilities 70 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Strengthening Intellectual Capital Dalmia Bharat endeavoured coupled with participation teams and experience of the Dalmia Bharat’s state-of-theto strengthen its in-house in industry forums and manufacturing, technical and art robotics lab enabled to capability through internal technical seminars. To R&D teams from different optimise quality and process intervention programmes facilitate effective knowledgeorganisational levels. control through minimal and adding experienced sharing, the functional Interactions with different manual intervention. The lab scientists and technologists heads were mobilised across customers and suppliers was equipped with online from different industrial sites at regular intervals, provided deeper insights into sampling and particle analysis backgrounds to conduct facilitating best-in-class emerging needs. facilities, which automatically R&D activities. It encouraged practices. Ideas were calibrated the equipment to interactions with crossgenerated based on inputs desired performance metrics. functional peer groups, from sales and marketing Research centres Robotic labs Research labs H7 Cr. R&D expenditure Impermeable cement development Special cement having low permeability value to impart superior water ingress resistance for different grades of concrete. Also providing enhanced longer term durability against atmospheric carbonation or ingress of harmful chlorides and sulphates from ground water or marine fronts. Exterior skim coat Value-added skim coat to withstand the harsh environment and ease of application i.e. through a roller Low cost binder for plastering application Low cost binder compared to cement, primarily focusing on plastering applications New grouting materials Waterproof membrane Clinker chemistry Fig: New Developments / Future focus areas Utilisation of High MgO containing limestone for the production of clinker Value-added products Dalmia Bharat possesses more Dalmia Magic and certified by Housing creation. Outperforms any than seven decades of cement Unique, versatile and long& Development Board of grade of OPC cement (52.5 manufacturing experience. lasting finishing solution. Singapore’s accredited testing N category cement by seven It aspired to revolutionise Provides smooth and natural lab. Complies with European days). Needs minimal water, the building materials sector tone glossy/matte finish. (EN) standards. Ensures zeroheat of hydration, drying with a wide range of surface Can be directly applied onto chalking after drying with a shrinkage and ultra-low finishing products accredited any type of cement surface higher surface coverage than water permeability. Tested by international quality (plaster, concrete, bricks, alternatives and enhanced and verified by third-party certification bodies. Dalmia AAC blocks and fly ash cost-effectiveness. accredited laboratories Bharat’s Innobuild portfolio bricks, among others). Can (Bureau Veritas) and IIT Delhi. Dalmia Infra Green represented a culmination be applied internally and Achieves over 70 Megapascal Among the ‘greenest’ of decades of sectoral externally (wall and ceiling). Pressure Units of strength cement varieties in the world. experience and rigorous R&D Natural tone allows customers over 28 days. Consumes Proprietary heavy-duty and in high-end research centres to not paint (if desired). The curing time of 72 hours, high-performing cement and labs. only product in India tested compared to regular ones suited for infrastructure Annual Report 2018-19 | 71 that take three or four weeks. from high-grade Portland making it a preferred choice. Products used to construct cement clinker, imported Packed in Biaxially Oriented the Chennai Airport taxiway. gypsum and superior ground Polypropylene(BOPP) bags granulated blast furnace with nano-pores (compared Dalmia DSP 4 patents applied for silica rich slag (GGBS) from to micro-pores or macroCrown jewel in Dalmia Dalmia Magic Premium the most reputed steel pores), which ensure shower Bharat’s product bouquet. Skim Coat manufacturers. Quality raw resistance, minimal seepage Specialised best-in-class Dalmia Infra Green (PPC) materials ensure optimal and extended freshness. offering in slag-based and fly Dalmia Infra Green (PSC) particle size (fineness), ease ash-based variants. Premium Cemenite of working, best setting quality cement produced time and highest strength, THE CONCRETE EXPERT OPTIMISED SETTING TIME Specially formulated for best quality Allows for optimum preparation, use, and concrete setting of concrete BOPP PACKAGING OPTIMUM WORKABILITY Factory fresh cement in revolutionary Ensures ‘cohesive’ mixing at a low water-cement tamper-proof and water-resistant packaging ratio, resulting in higher overall strength ON-SITE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE MORE VOLUME PER BAG Free on-call and on-site technical assistance Better coverage and high yield of concrete, helps from Dalmia tecExpert professionals you get more concrete per bag of cement Climate Jamboree: A youth movement jointly launched by Dalmia Bharat and TERI School of advance studies With a mission to empower desirable outcomes. social sciences, media and stakeholders to ideate, learn, youth to take ownership A medley of diverse ‘lead-up’ communications, among innovate and collaborate on of creating a sustainable events exposing youth to many others, this programme sustainability solutions. At the future for themselves, Dalmia the diversity of sustainability also created communities of finale, youth had a chance Cement and the TERI School solutions, culminating in a action in different geographies to interact with national of Advanced Studies (TERI finale that stitched together networked together for and global experts and SAS) have jointly launched a various elements in an maximum impact. Open to express their concerns/ideas programme of engagement engaging manner. The Climate youth across the country and via interactive workshops, – the ‘Climate Jamboree’. Jamboree aims to carry the beyond, most of the lead-up performing arts, exhibitions, The Programme aims to help voice of youth to decision events were undertaken on an technical sessions, live youth engaged in different makers and opinion leaders. online mode but the finale, demonstrations, competitions, streams of study, and With activities designed for scheduled between November exciting innovations and more aspiring for diverse careers, students/young professionals 1 – 3, 2018 at the Thyagaraj outlets. to recognise the common as of management, law, Stadium in New Delhi, well as unique opportunities urban studies, natural and engaged well over 10,000 they have to influence more youth and other relevant 72 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Cemenite: A unique polymer cement composite Conventionally, cement is products fail to perform. Advantages of Cemenite properties mixed with sand to produce • Higher compressive / On the other hand, if opted While the technology mortar and with sand and tensile strength and abrasion for aesthetics, granite, marble resistance than conventional can generate a variety of larger aggregates to produce and other building stones applications (since it is a cement, ceramic and concrete, along with a few may provide a great design compound that can be porcelain other chemical and mineral finish and durability but their moulded into almost any • Suitable for heavy duty use admixtures as performance quality and performance form or shape), its primary where conventionally natural enhancers. Physically depend on factors like application can be found stones are preferred for cement performs well across the quality of rock quarry, their strength and abrasion (but not limited to) in the compression; the strength quality of transportation resistance construction industry for floor may range from 20 MPa to etc. Being hard and unpliant coverings, wall coverings • Man-made; colour and >150 MPa. Being brittle, its surfaces, they do not provide appearance reproducible and counter-tops. Other tensile performance is a tenth the best possible walking unlike natural stones applications could include of its compressive strength. comfort when laid on floors. decorative and shielding • More superior cushioning Hence, any project where Being natural makes their than natural stones elements, advertising boards bending, warping, buckling, appealing designs mostly and paver blocks etc. • Can be formed into thinner twisting etc. are involved, unreproducible. sections than natural stones conventional cement-based without breaking, retaining Landmark projects Kudankulam Nuclear Power, Tamil Nadu Kannur International Airport, Kerala Dhola-Sadiya Bridge, Arunachal Pradesh Kochi Metro Annual Report 2018-19 | 73 Digitalisation at Dalmia Bharat Salient features of Strategic Future focus Information Management initiatives areas System at Dalmia Bharat • Centralised IM system • More automated processes, • Enhanced mobility • Outsourced end-user support reduces complexity and creates agile • Value-added reporting operations • Cloud-based services of Google • Innovation RPA robotic process & HRIS • Mobile applications connecting • SAP S4 Hana migration customers, employees, sales force • Cloud-based video conferencing • HRIS migration to Oracle HCM on and logistics system cloud • Analytics to strengthen business processes • Information security • Integrated in-plant dispatch system Dalmia Bharat’s information and delivery competitiveness. and optimising costs. grievance management. management system enabled Real-time value-added reports It channelised data from Dalmia Bharat rolled out real-time data management facilitated efficient decisionmultiple applications into an Android apps,facilitating and efficient decision-making. making and prudent resource integrated solution through a continuous engagement The centralised information allocation. The business process automation and with stakeholders from management system functions were integrated business analytics. order placement, invoicing, harmonised its business into a Cloud platform, credit requesting and processes, product quality strengthening data security The entire supply chain Convergence of the Group’s To bring in business agility and Implemented analytical Successfully implemented mobilecement businesses processes in cost efficiency, infrastructure capabilities that generated value based application platform that SAP under a common umbrella, services were migrated to cloud addition for the business (market caters to Dalmia customer echo harmonising process controls and platform. This ensured business analysis, scenario analysis, systems. (external and internal). This streamlining knowledge sharing continuity and disaster recovery. estimation of logistics and enables end-to-end customer life among group entities. distribution costs, profitability cycle management and connect. analysis etc.). Raw material procurement Manufacturing, storage and packaging Distribution to customers Strategic roadmap has been Successfully deployed best The Group’s cadre of young Application services: Deployed developed with current and of breed communication data scientists developed and mobile-based application services, future state for various security & collaboration tools on customised a number of graphical revolutionising our order to cash domains. IT risk management Google and cloud-based AV tools from the Google suite to process effectiveness. Provided programs have been made platforms that led to enhanced work with legacy delivery data the logistics force with real-time integral part of the strategic collaboration, productivity to identify sales intensity maps information. business planning. Yearly enhancement and cost and suggest alternative delivery projects on security postures are effectiveness. models, redefining depot linkages driven by known threats and risk with customer delivery points. impact. 74 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Capacity building programme Influencers comprise masons, contractors, engineers and architects that play a major role in Influencers promoting and recommending a brand. Masons and • Meets Contractors • Training at government institutes (like ITI) • Mason Certification program • Annual technocrat conference and lecture series Engineers and • Plant visit and R&D center visit Architects • Participation in exhibitions and conferences held by Indian Institute of Architects and Institution of Engineers Institutional customers contribute to almost 40% of our sales volume. We provide assistance to the customers on aspects such as: • Product delivery Institutional • Pricing and credit facility Customers • Third party testing • Concrete mix design The initiatives are so designed to instil confidence about our capability to shoulder responsibility in big projects across the country. The channel network contributes to almost 60% of our sales volume. We introduced a range of interventions to make them aware of our schemes, discount policies, loyalty programs and financial benefits in being associated with Dalmia Bharat. Support material: Product brochures, literatures, testimonials, dealer signage, shop painting, in-shop branding and POP items Dealers Business meets: To educate dealers on important business aspects Factory visits: To understand the manufacturing process and salient features of the product. Sales support: Counter meets at the dealer outlets with participation from masons and contractors. CRM program: Regular engagement programs consisting of festival gifts, celebration on occasions, diaries/calendars, educational excellence for children of dealers, reward and tour program, among others. The end consumers (typically an individual house builder) are enabled by our Technical Services team on knowledge about the product and services that can be offered by the Group. Product brochures and leaflets are developed for the end consumer highlighting product benefits. There has been only 1% unresolved consumer complaints during the year under review. Consumer camps and training • Construction practices • Safety measures Consumers • Usage of right materials • Vaastu guidelines Cover blocks are provided at concreting sites for certain Dalmia DSP customers. Casting supervision and site inspection services are provided with the help of Tech Services team and Dhalai Applicators. Dalmia Construction Knowledge Center was established in Guwahati (North East), to provide solutions for building one’s dream home. The marketing team encourages our customers to give feedback as and when necessary on product quality or service. While there was no formal customer survey conducted during the reporting period, our team regularly interacts with our customers to gauge their satisfaction level to improve overall product delivery encompassing sales team interaction, public relations, trade engagement and technical services. The concerns, feedbacks and recommendations enable us to tune our business model towards better delivery and exceptional service. Annual Report 2018-19 | 75 Mason’s master programme Dalmia Bharat collaborated The program was divided into of structure, storage and estimating and costing, with NCCBM to introduce two phases. In the first phase, handling, among others. layout and excavation, brick Mason’s Certification employees were trained by work, plaster, shuttering, In the second phase, a Program, aimed at increasing NCCBM engineers over a reinforcement, water-cement group of 26 masons were a mason’s technical skill four-day period on a range of ratio, concrete batching, trained by Dalmia Bharat in construction practices. topics such as quality aspects mixing and placing, slump employees on multiple All head masons and petty of concrete and building test with and without aspects such as evaluation contractors with at-least two materials, best practices in admixtures, earthquakeof safety at construction years of experience were construction, concrete mixing, resistant structures and sites, masonry tools, eligible to be enrolled . foundation works, evaluation problem resolution. building materials, cement, Young Achiever’s Award With a vision to appreciate and encourage the youth, Dalmia Bharat initiated the Young Achiever’s Award, wherein young performers from varied fields like sports, journalism, art & culture, film, ecology & environment, agriculture and bravery, amongst others, were recognised and felicitated. It seeks to promote youth as a mark of respect towards the region where it operates. It endeavours to nurture young performers and project them as role models. Cricket India is passionate about cricket and the Group recognises in it an opportunity to touch the minds of consumers by building awareness through the use of high visibility media. Our association with cricket began in 2016 and since then we have sponsored events to build awareness and strengthen our position as a progressive/dynamic company. In 2018, we sponsored two major cricket eventsEngland-Ireland series and Asia Cup. Both these events yielded a high impact according to Nielsen Sports, an independent globally reputed organisation for sports impact measurement. In both the series, the Group also leveraged our investment through experiential activation. The activations with channel partners helped the Group maximise the potential of the association program. Key focus areas Influence a Accelerate brand Strengthen Create an positive change awareness; build relationships with emotional in youth brand equity the construction connect with the sector target group 76 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Craft Béton (Béton is the French word for concrete) encapsulates the essence of cement beauty and versatility. It represents a paradigm shift in the way cement is perceived as a building material. Dalmia Bharat engaged internationallyacclaimed designers to redefine cement, making it more contemporary, aesthetic and elegant. It created a range of lifestyle and architectural masterpieces for homes comprising home accents, wall coverings and bathroom basins. The Collection of over 100 designs was developed by Iti Tyagi (India), Somesh Singh (India), Cynthia Mijres Rodrigues (Mexico), Alan Saga (Mexico), Miroslaw Baca (Poland), Lora Dimova (Bulgaria), David Shatz (Israel) and Anna Kraus (Germany), featuring products ranging from bookends, lamps, tables and mirrors to tiles, speakers and candle holders, and sculptural basins made from Dalmia Bharat’s cement (one of the world’ greenest cement varieties). Annual Report 2018-19 | 77 Manufactured capital 78 | Dalmia Bharat Limited The management’s approach The per capita cement consumption in India is on the lower side compared to the global average and emerging economies. A series of infrastructural and housing projects initiated by the Government of India and other private players over the upcoming years presents a bright long-term outlook for the sector. Through a series of brownfield expansions, acquisitions and productivity enhancement initiatives, Dalmia Bharat is set to capitalise on the opportunity and deliver superior stakeholder value. Dalmia Bharat’s competitiveness is derived from a superior manufacturing discipline reflected in low operational costs, high resource and asset productivity. Dalmia Bharat believes in leveraging technology interventions, execution excellence, cost optimisation and continuous improvement. Internal benchmarking and performance dashboard provide plant-specific and aggregated Group-level data related to energy consumption, alternative fuel consumption, cement carbon footprint metrics and other operational performance indicators. These analytics form the basis of informed decisions and new initiatives. Dalmia Bharat incorporated several standardised reports to facilitate comparability, undertake cross-functional review meetings and share knowledge. Dalmia Bharat’s best-performing plants consume ~64 kilowatt-hours per tonne of cement, ~38% lower than the global average. Similarly, its specific thermal energy consumption (kilocalories per kilogram of clinker) is ~12-15% lower than the global average. Annual Report 2018-19 | 79 Objectives Short Medium Long Term Term Term • Integrate new operational • Pan-India presence through • Creating a net positive impact from sites into a coherent entity inorganic and organic expansions our manufactured capital • Enhance capacity • Low carbon technology adoption at utilisation existing and new plants • Increase the use of alternate fuel Risks and Opportunities Risk: Preparedness for Risk: Ability to track and Opportunity: Maintaining / capacity expansion to grow acquire cement plants at growing market share with the market theright valuations Mitigation strategy Mitigation strategy Utilisation strategy • Regular tracking and liaison for • Regular monitoring and tracking • Regular market assessment for securing raw material for future acquisition opportunities through tracking growth, sales and market projects market intelligence share • Cultural integration of newly • Leveraging expert guidance • Strategic capacity expansion in acquired sites from professionals like investment the regions of high and sustained bankers and advisors demand Strengthening Manufactured Capital Dalmia Bharat plans to increase installed capacity by around 40% to ~37 MT by FY21 through brownfield expansion (~7.8 MT) and acquisition projects (~3 MT). Existing installed capacity (MT) 12.1 10.4 4.0 South India East India North East India Fig: Strengthening geographical footprint 80 | Dalmia Bharat Limited With a high capacity the region from 10.4 MT to five months; commercial Industries (Maharashtra), utilisation of ~90% at its 18 MT at an investment of production commenced in when completed, will Eastern plants and healthily ~H3200 Cr. March 2019. The integrated reinforce Dalmia Bharat’s growing cement demand plant enabled it to strengthen presence in Western India. Dalmia Bharat commenced in Eastern India, Dalmia its Eastern India market share trial production at its Bharat is enhancing cement while reducing lead distances. Kalyanpur plant at Rohtas manufacturing capacity in The acquisition of Murli (Bihar) unit in a record Project Pride at Rajgangpur As a committed global transitioning this facility for radiation heat loss logic and installation of a corporate citizen, we have to an even lower carbon minimisation robotics lab for stable plant taken utmost care in the footprint manufacturing • Green fuel processing operations identification and selection unit. Various intervention and feeding system for • LED lighting for complete of the plant technology points include but not alternative fuels plant compound while increasing installed limited to: • Aluminising and heat • Solar PV to maximise capacity at our Rajgangpur • Unique kiln slope resistance painting on the space utilisation and green site. We leveraged our • Use of Counter Current inners sides of bottom 3 power generation potential experience of over seven cyclone cyclones to improve design These interventions have decades in cement • Bigger size preheater life and energy efficiency enabled line-3 at the manufacture to introduce a series of systemic and and pre-calciner for higher • Latest technology Jet flex Rajgangpur site to emerge process interventions across alternative fuel utilisation burner to offer maximum as one of the most energy this plant design. These and reduced pressure drop flexibility for solid pulverised and ecologically-efficient initiatives have enabled us • Hysil insulations in preand alternative fuel firing state-of-the-art cement to take a step closer towards heater cyclones and calciner • Expert system fuzzy manufacturing facilities Ariyalur: Strengthening installed capacity RFID-based integrated Plant and Logistic through process innovation Management System (PLMS) at Bengal Cement Works, Medinipur, West Bengal The Ariyalur unit of Dalmia Bharat comprises a cement The road dispatch at Medinipur site was managed by mill with a designed capacity of 330 TPH in a PPC grinding the SAP SD module. This operation resulted in a high mode. It took a series of process measures to increase turnaround time. The plant team implemented RFID (Radiogrinding capacity to 365 TPH. Frequency Identification)-based logistic management system. This new system comprised advanced features like This breakthrough comprised a cross-functional team weigh bridge automation, reduction in pilferage, realworking out an innovative idea to maintain the uniform time SAP SD module integration for data upgradation, material flow from the bag house to silo feed elevator by improvement in packer efficiency, additional controls and changing the purging sequence. This modification required checks around logistics operations. no additional capex investment. Following incorporation of the solution, the cement mill PPC output increased from The implementation led to the reduction in plant 330 to 365 TPH, CVRM availability increased from 94% to turnaround time by 25%. This successful intervention 97% and specific power consumption reduced from 24.2 paved the way for interventions like forward and backward to 22.5 kWh/MT. A similar modification was implemented integration of PLMS system with solutions like Customers horizontally across the other business units that helped Sales Order management, tracking of material delivery , realise a higher output. Automatic Transporters Bill payment system, GPS tracking of vehicle in real time etc., towards a centralised logistic solution. Annual Report 2018-19 | 81 Towards cleaner operations In line with the renewable energy commitment towards RE100, Dalmia Bharat does not intend to add thermal capacity. It intends to diversify its power portfolio towards fossil-free alternatives by setting up green-power projects based on waste heat recovery and solar photovoltaic modules. Several projects under feasibility assessment are under consideration and stages of implementation. We witnessed higher auxiliary power consumption in FY19 compared to FY18. This was mainly due to the use of cost-effective low-grade and high-moisture fuels (mostly in Ariyalur, Dalmiapuram and Rajgangpur captive power plants). Dalmia Bharat optimised generation costs through power wheeling from captive units to grinding and clinkerisation units. The Rajgangpur captive power plant wheeled power to plants at Kapilas while the Ariyalur and Belgaum captive power plants catered to plants at Kadappa. The plants at Umrangshu and Lanka procured power from Indian Energy Exchange (IEX) through the Day Ahead arrangement. Installed capacity 178 MW 8 MW 9.2 MW Waste 30 MW Waste Thermal Solar Heat Recovery Heat Recovery capacity capacity under implemented execution Fig: The installed power generation capacity to meet our energy requirements Auxiliary power consumption Water consumption in Group CPPs 0.27 KL/kWh 9.3% 8.6% 0.22 KL/kWh FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 Fig: Performance at our Captive Power Plants on power and water consumption 82 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Key initiatives taken to improve resources and energy efficiency • Commissioned dumping system • Optimised soot-blowing system Water • Overhauled/Maintained/ Replaced drain valves/start-up vent passing consumption • Reused sample cooler drain water • Reused MGF/UF/RO sack wash water • Reduced venting loss during load throw by optimising steam pressure • Reused cooling tower blow down Operational efficiency • Optimised ACC blade angles,fan speed control with vaccum, and practice of nonstopping ACC fans • Ensured timely cleaning of ACC to improve ACC efficiencies • Planted trees in nearby areas and removed obstructions in airflow to ACC • Optimised pressure drop across feed control valves in BFP VFD operations with drum level Auxiliary power • Optimised compressed air consumption and running hours consumption • Minimised idle running hours of CHP and ash conveying system • Ensured closed loop operations and PID control for all VFD-driven motors • Optimised excess air in furnace • Reduced air ingress in flue gas path Equipment efficiency • Installed VFOs in centrifugal pumps and fans • Installed high heat transfer area heater • Installed drip transfer pump to reduce ACC loading • Installed high-efficiency boiler feed water • Installed high-efficiency CEP • Installed high-efficiency MCWP Optimising finish mode grinding at the Belgaum plant of Dalmia Bharat The Indian cement industry optimum specific power material re-circulation and air reduction, providing predominantly uses Ball Mill consumption obtained under silo feeding as well as a bag training to the operators and or Vertical Roller Mills for this mode was 10.5 kWh/MT. house to collect dust from a larger team involvement grinding raw materials. the Raw Mill and pyro return in the project activity. As a The Roller Press at Belgaum dust. result, the Belgaum Roller However, at the Belgaum was designed to perform at Press proved to be unique unit, the Roller Press is a rated output of 390 TPH The lower specific power in terms of specific power in use for the same. This on a dry basis. However, consumption from about consumption. equipment proved to be process optimisation resulted 13.5-14.0 kWh/MT to 10.5more energy-efficient in the Roller Press delivering 11.50 kWh/MT with higher The next target is to achieve without support from a about 427 TPH (monthly productivity was achieved single-digit specific power secondary crusher or Ball Mill average). The total circuit through a series of activities consumption for grinding limestone and comprised a Roller Press, like improving reliability (i.e. <10.0 kWh/MT) while other additives. This type of belt conveyors, dynamic and process optimisation maintaining productivity and grinding (with Single Roller separator, 6-cyclone including major breakdown quality. Press) is also called Finish separators, V-separator, ID and troubleshooting, Mode grinding. The most fan and bucket elevator for residue optimisation, false Annual Report 2018-19 | 83 Green initiatives at our mines Dalmia Bharat believes that its journey towards sustainability starts at its captive limestone mines. Improvement in the process or equipment that reduced limestone consumption increased the life of the limestone mines, reducing risks pertaining to the availability of quality raw material. Dalmia Bharat adopted several eco-friendly technologies including the use of large excavators to minimise blasting, elimination of secondary blasting through the deployment of rock breakers, operationalisation of drillers with in-built dust collection, mist systems and dry fog dust controlling systems, among others. Other initiatives implemented by the Group comprised planting trees, suppressing dust emissions and harvesting rainwater in catchment areas. Fig: Eco-friendly practices implemented in DBL mines 84 | Dalmia Bharat Limited ‘Green’ manufacturing sites Ariyalur plant Dalmiapuram plant Kadappa plant Workplace interventions Dalmia Bharat believes that Swachh sankalp se swachh Creating plastic-free wasted and how many people the workplace is like a second siddhi campaign workspace it could have served home, as people spend a • Cleaner workspace by • Replacement of plastic • Education: Educated major portion of their day removing unnecessary paper, garbage bags with talents through signages sent for recycling/reuse compostable garbage in cafeterias, e-mailers and here. By incorporating the • Introduced eco-pens and bags (degradation time of previous-day food wastage concept of ‘go green’, Dalmia notepads compositable products is 60 updates, among others Bharat transformed its office to 180 days) space through a series of • Distributed basil seeds for • Training of baseline staff: plantation • Replaced plastic water Trained the baseline staff interventions to improve bottles with glass water through IHM (Institute of talent well-being while LED lighting bottles reducing ecological impact. • Existing CFLs were replaced Hotel Management) with LED lights donated to an • Replaced plastic cutlery with • No bin day: Held on the Bio-green wall NGO working in collaboration stainless steel cutlery 11th day of every month • Removed volatile organic with the CSR team • Replaced ceramic crockery when talents are mandated compounds with vegan crockery (bone to finish what was on their • Installed bird-feeding bowls • More healthy workspace for with food outside windows ash-free) plates talents Tracking food wastage • Reduced energy • Emotional appeal: Published consumption total kilograms of food Annual Report 2018-19 | 85 Social and Relationship capital 86 | Dalmia Bharat Limited The management’s approach Dalmia Bharat is committed to develop, improve and invest in creating shared value for its stakeholders viz. customers, talent, suppliers, communities, investors and government or regulatory agencies. An important stakeholder group for Dalmia Bharat is the future generation, which is often unrepresented. It believes that incorporating the needs and interests of the community members creates positive outcomes for all stakeholder groups, strengthening an organisation’s ‘social license to operate’. Strengthening Social and Relationship Capital Dalmia Bharat intents to create a meaningful difference in the lives of its stakeholders, implementing a series of intervention programs through its not-for-profit arm, Dalmia Bharat Foundation (DBF). In FY19, Dalmia Bharat’s CSR activities were concentrated in 11 States (Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Meghalaya, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Bengal) encompassing 1,200 villages in the vicinity of its manufacturing plants. Its efforts are centred around four focus areas – (1) soil and water conservation (2) access to clean energy (3) livelihood skill training (4) social development Dalmia Bharat invested H8 Cr. in the reporting period on various CSR interventions. Annual Report 2018-19 | 87 More than 8.5 lakh outreach population and counting Dalmia Bharat Fig: Geographic footprint of CSR interventions 88 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Objectives Mid Long Term Term • Harvesting and conserving 14 million m3 • Harvesting and conserving 50 million m3 of water for productive use of water for productive use • Ensuring access to clean cooking and • Ensuring access to clean cooking and solar lighting for 500 villages solar lighting for 5,000 villages • Transforming 17,600 unemployed youth • Transforming 1,00,000 unemployed into a skilled workforce, enhancing the youth into a skilled workforce enhancing income of 40,000 households the incomes of 2,00,000 households • Addressing basic health, education and • Addressing basic health, education and rural infrastructural needs in 900 villages rural infrastructural needs of 5,000 villages Risks and opportunities Risk: Environmental Risk:Demand for Opportunities: Strengthen concerns of community employment by the local outreach programs pertaining to water and air community pollution Mitigation strategy Mitigation strategy Utilisation strategy • Soil and water conservation • Skill training programmes • Forging partnerships with interventions through DIKSHa corporates, Government and NGOs • Enabling access to clean energy • Training and capacity building to leverage resources, skills and solutions of local community to leverage expertise, strengthening outreach alternative livelihood opportunities programs First global cement company to have its CSR processes assured by BSI for following ISO 26000 guidance Dalmia Bharat was reviewed standards. BSI assured ISO 26000 guidelines. benchmark for the industry by British Standards its CSR processes on ISO “Institutionalising standards from a corporate social Institution (BSI) to gain 26000 standards on social such as ISO 26000 is responsibility perspective, a fresh perspective on its responsibility. BSI provided an praiseworthy as adopting which is a mark of a true performance regarding assurance/opinion statement them not only makes DBL leader.” indicated BSI. the ISO 26000 guidance on the CSR report based on robust but also sets another Annual Report 2018-19 | 89 Soil and water conservation NO POVERTY ZERO SUSTAINABLE CLIMATE LIFE ON HUNGER CITIES AND ACTION LAND COMMUNITIES Conservation of soil and lead to a significant loss of for farmers. to increase water efficiency. water resources is essential agricultural productivity. The integrated water Dalmia Bharat’s panfor India’s agrarian economy. Dalmia Bharat, through its conservation initiative India ‘synergistic water Due to ever-increasing initiatives on soil and water positively impacted the conservation approach’ anthropogenic activities,the conservation, contributed livelihoods of over 30,000 revolves around three quality of soil and water is towards groundwater people across six states (Tamil different interrelated and deteriorating. Soil erosion, recharge, enhancing access to Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, multi-faceted components soil compaction and rise in irrigation and controlling soil Karnataka, Odisha, Assam based on water conservation, salinity are some of the major erosion. The Group’s projects and Rajasthan). integrated development of impacts degrading soil and contributed to secure watersheds and communities, water quality. These processes livelihoods and increased yield and application of measures Objectives • To undertake an integrated watershed management project for the effective management of soil and water Intent 2020 Intent 2030 • To create structures for effective water harvesting and 14 million m of water 3 50 million m3 of water management harvesting potential. harvesting potential. • To promote micro-irrigation techniques for the optimal utilisation of water for productive purposes Outcome and impact (Consolidated figures for FY18 and FY19) 900 181 43 6 Acres of land brought Farm ponds Village ponds Check dams under drip irrigation Dalmia Bharat’s Social harvesting efforts have added conservation approach’ The integrated water Return on Impact (SROI) potential for a water credit revolves around three conservation initiative assessment suggests that of up to 11.1 million m3 till different interrelated and positively impacted the its interventions in soil and date, enabling groundwater multi-faceted components livelihoods of over 30,000 water conservation has recharge and higher crop based on water conservation, people across six states (Tamil generated value of *4.0x in yield. integrated development of Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, the lives of its stakeholders. watersheds and communities, Karnataka, Odisha, Assam Dalmia Bharat’s panand application of measures and Rajasthan). Water conservation and India ‘synergistic water to increase water efficiency. Water harvesting Watershed development Optimal water utilisation Construction and rejuvenation of water Watershed projects in partnership with Optimum water utilisation: Use of drip harvesting structures: Check dams, NABARD: Construction of brownfield irrigation and sprinkler system for using village ponds and farm ponds. bunds, farm ponds, livelihood support the available water efficiently. and afforestation. 90 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Access to clean energy GOOD HEALTH AFFORDABLE SUSTAINABLE CLIMATE AND WELLAND CLEAN CITIES AND ACTION BEING ENERGY COMMUNITIES India is a fast-growing 7.3% of urban population) Fuel-efficient cooking stoves distributed product samples economy and needs energy to do not have access to were promoted and LPG and subsidised products achieve its true potential. Due electricity and 592 million connections facilitated. to communities while to power-cuts or unavailability people (rural: 62.5%; urban: highlighting their health Dalmia Bharat Foundation of power from the central 20.1%) still use firewood and economic benefits in organised multiple behaviourgrid, communities are for cooking. These fuels are comparison with kerosene change campaigns aimed deprived of the opportunity polluting and harmful. Dalmia lamps. Dalmia Bharat also at sensitising communities to contribute effectively to Bharat facilitates access to assisted communities to regarding the harmful effects the nation’s growth. More renewable and other clean gain access to a reliable and of kerosene, importance than 396 million people energy solutions to help cleaner source of illumination of energy access for (44.7% of the total rural communities reduce their through the distribution of holistic development and population compared to environmental footprint. solar lighting systems. clean energy benefits. It Objectives • Creating awareness among communities about renewable energy and its importance by facilitating access to solar energy Intent 2020 Intent 2030 solutions and clean cooking practices Ensuring access to clean Ensuring access to • Promoting access to and use of fuel-efficient cooking stoves, clean cooking and solar cooking and solar lighting LPG connections and solar lighting solutions lighting in 500 villages. in 5,000 villages. Outcome and impact (Consolidated figures for FY18 and FY19) 702 3244 6,256 183 622 13 1,032 Fuel efficient LPG Solar lanterns Solar street Solar home Solar powered LED lights cooking stoves connections and study sights lighting e-shala lamps systems • Reduction in the expenses and empowered • 25,723 tonnes of CO2 climate change mitigation consumption of wood, coal community emissions were avoided generated a value of *3.05x and kerosene, increase in • 118 clean cooking villages • Dalmia Bharat’s Social in the life of its stakeholders hours of electricity availability, and 135 clean lighting Return on Impact assessment clean and safer environment, villages suggests that interventions reduction in fuel and health in energy conservation and Clean cooking Clean housing lighting solutions Clean lighting solutions for streets Clean solutions like fuel efficient Solar lights (solar lanterns, study lamps) Solar street lights are installed on cook stoves, biogas plants and LPG home lighting, system and micro grids are streets. connections were promoted. provided to households. Annual Report 2018-19 | 91 Livelihood skill training NO GENDER DECENT POVERTY EQUALITY WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Employment from any adequate intervention capital. These comprise Self through its Dalmia Institute industrial set-up in the programs for the community. Help Groups and Farmer of Knowledge and Skill neighbourhood is a usual Producer Organisations, Harnessing (DIKSHa) centres The livelihood skill community aspiration even facilitating backward and in Odisha, Tamil Nadu, training initiatives include as the number of people that forward market linkages while Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Government-approved short can be directly employed enhancing access to finance, It provides short duration duration courses through is limited. Dalmia Bharat leading to poverty reduction. certified courses to youth DIKSHa, small skill training conducts a ‘need’ assessment to empower beneficiaries for women, youth and Dalmia Institute of considering factors such towards respectable living farmers based on local needs Knowledge and Skill as potential livelihood and community change. and interests and enabling Harnessing (DIKSHa) possibilities, social norms and livelihood opportunities Dalmia Bharat imparts market outlook to determine through building social livelihood skill training Objectives • Enhancing employability by imparting skill development/ Intent 2020 Intent 2030 vocational training to youth Transforming 40,000 Transforming 2,00,000 • Facilitating the development of micro-enterprises households and adding households and adding • Facilitating women’s SHGs 17,600 unemployed youth 1,00,000 unemployed youth to the skilled workforce. to the skilled workforce. Outcome and impact (Consolidated figures for FY18 and FY19) 9 1,127 6 108 800 DIKSHA Centres Trainees passed Farmer Producer Training sessions Self Help Groups operational from DIKSHA Companies and of SHG women floated 2,598 shares members & youth Increased income generation of people by improving market linkages, supporting entrepreneurial ambitions and economic development. Our Social Return on Impact assessment suggests that our interventions in livelihood and skills training has generated value of *7.67x in the life our stakeholders. Skill training Income enhancement project Facilitating community-based Livelihood-based training: These training Promoting linkages to government organisations initiatives are directed towards youth schemes and training communities to Empowering communities: Economically (including both men and women). increase income. empowering communities through community-based organisations, for e.g. FPOs and SHGs. 92 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Mushroom cultivation at Sunsabitridargarh A tribal woman of Instead of getting frustrated, investment. Initially, she of mushrooms Dhingri and Rajgangpur block in she thought of taking up purchased seeds for 10 bags Pala has been able to earn Sunsabitridargarh district set income-generating activities of mushroom and produced H50,00060,000 annually. an example in mushroom with the help of Dalmia 40 kg of mushroom in FY15. Sabitri has now taken up farming. The successful Bharat. She was 35 and She invested H1,000 and grooming 100 women in farmer, Patra, a resident of started mushroom cultivation earned H1,800 in a month. mushroom cultivation. She Dhaurada, made over 100 after receiving training from Since then, Sabitri has not has been felicitated by Dalmia women self-sufficient with Dalmia Bharat Foundation looked back. Enthused by Bharat for her achievement mushroom cultivation. After near Lanjiberna Mines. As her success, her husband in promoting mushroom marriage, Sabitri found ‘Dhingri’ mushroom is tasty, joined her in this cultivation, cultivation and enterprise. it difficult to meet family it enjoys good demand. helping maintain their family expenses with the meagre Sabitri started mushroom needs for four years. Every income of her husband. cultivation with a small year, she grows two types Lighting lives at Kovandakurichy Village DIKSHa: Empowering lives C. Mala is a resident of Kovandakurichy village, who Matriculate Aradhana Sahoo is school drop out. During supports her specially-abled husband and a job-seeking mobilisation, she came to know about DIKSHa and its graduate son, joined the Kungumam Women Self Help bed-side Assistant Course under OSDA at Dalmia Institute Group, which helped her avail a loan of H10,000 from and enrolled in it. She excelled at her final OSDA exam and Kovandakurichy Watershed Women Self Help Groups successfully completed the assessment. Following this, she Federation. With this support, she purchased a candle got a placement at New Dibdhyam, Rourkela, as a home making machine, which helped increase the operational nurse. Today, her take home salary of H15,000 per month, efficiency of her business.Today she is able to make 90 kgs that aids her in supporting her family. of candles annually. Her total production cost is H140/kg and Rakshi Lakra is a retail sales associate. She has no father average selling price H300/kg, helping her generate H14,400 and no mother and lives with her grand mother in Mahul annually as income from this business. Pada Basti, Rourkela. She discontinued her education after clearing class X. She enrolled in DIKSHa and its retail sales associate course at Dalmia Institute. She successfully Success story in Mudhuvatur Village completed the assessment and clinched a placement at Vishal Mega Mart, Rourkela. Her take home salary is now Thirumathi Chithra is a resident of Mudhuvatur village H10,500 per month, improving her financial condition. where she lives with her husband and two kids. She is an active member of Indira Gandhi Self Help Group. She had been running a small confectionery shop without a fridge, generating a turnover of H300 to H500 per day. She became a member of Melarasur Watershed Women Self Help Group Federation, which helped her avail a loan of H15,000 for a new refrigerator. With this support, she is able to generate additional sales of H1500 per day with profits ranging from H80 to H250. Annual Report 2018-19 | 93 Social development GOOD HEALTH AND QUALITY CLEAN WATER SUSTAINABLE CITIES WELL-BEING EDUCATION AND SANITATION AND COMMUNITIES The need assessment penetration of this program Dalmia Bharat promotes sporting events. Dalmia activity performed by to far-flung villages and construction and the use of Bharat conducted several Dalmia Bharat identified the improve resource availability toilets that led to villages awareness programmes on limited availability of basic for the community. During achieve Open Defecation social interests and issues, infrastructure facilities as the reporting period, the Free (ODF) status. Through supported sporting events the principal hindrance to Group implemented several its education programs, it and cultural activities in community development. camps related to building reached several children schools and villages and built It implemented several awareness on preventive across communities around community infrastructure initiatives across areas such healthcare, immunisation, sites and engaged them in such as roads, wells, ring well as health and sanitation, rural eye care, maternal health, value-based educational sheds, drains, community infrastructure and education, child care and healthcare programs (ethical values, centres, schools and among others. Dalmia for differently-abled, among leadership, gender anganwadi buildings. Bharat aspires to increase others. equality) to academic and Objectives • To provide basic and primary healthcare services for the Intent 2020 Intent 2030 community at large Addressing basic health, Addressing basic health, education and rural education and rural infrastructural needs of infrastructural needs of communities up to 900 communities up to 5,000 villages. villages. Outcome and impact (Consolidated figures for FY18 and FY19) 19 897 1,87,454 15 1,081 School sanitation Individual sanitary Beneficiaries of Open defecation-free Beneficiaries to HP blocks latrines health camps villages World on Wheels Initiative Increase in awareness towards sanitation and hygiene, improvement in the quality of education and empowered community. Our Social Return on Impact assessment suggests that our interventions in Livelihood and Skills Training generated value of *1.98x in the life our stakeholders. Health and sanitation Education Rural infrastructure and community Health camps and awareness camps are Improving educational facilities development organised; individual toilets and school through 'Dalmia Happy School Project' Rural infrastructure like roads, drinking sanitation blocks are constructed. infrastructure, TLMs and BALA Art. water, community halls, veterinary camps and awareness camps. 94 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Digital inclusion and Learning Labs – HP World on Wheels (WOW) Chandrika at Verapala village, feels deeply motivated with her learnings of e-mail writing and MS Office like Word, PowerPoint and Excel. This initiative, implemented by Dalmia Bharat, aims at providing computer and digital literacy to students in remote villages and strengthening awareness on agriculture, health and government programs at the ground level. Strengthening infrastructure at Peddakomerla Village Swathi, a resident of Peddakomerla village, studies in ZPH School. She is exhilarated with the presence of Dalmia Bharat in her village. She, along with her classmates, has benefitted through improved teaching class experience, English speaking sessions and yoga classes through the organisation’s intervention programs. Her school was also facilitated with an upgraded water system, a bio-toilet complex and a playground. Annual Report 2018-19 | 95 Corporate information Board of Directors Company Secretary Registered Office Pradip Kumar Khaitan Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Dalmia Bharat Limited Chairman Executive Director (Legal) and Group (formerly known as Odisha Cement Company Secretary Jai Hari Dalmia Limited) Dalmiapuram 621651 Yadu Hari Dalmia Auditors District: Tiruchirapalli Gautam Dalmia S.S. Kothari Metha & Company Tamil Nadu Managing Director Bankers Corporate Office Puneet Yadu Dalmia State Bank of India Hansalaya Building, Managing Director Yes Bank Limited 11th & 12th floors Nagarajan Gopalaswamy 15, Barakhamba Road HDFC Bank Limited New Delhi – 110001 Virendra Singh Jain Axis Bank Limited Dharmendar Nath Davar Punjab National Bank Registrar and Share Sudha Pillai International Finance Corporation (IFC) Transfer Agent IndusInd Bank Limited Karvy Fintech Private Limited Jayesh Doshi Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32 Whole Time Director & Export Import Bank of India Gachibowli, Financial District, Chief Financial Officer Canara Bank Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032 Landesbank, Germany Management Team Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Mahendra Singhi Ujjwal Batria Jayesh Doshi 96 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Directors’ Report Dear Members, Your Directors have pleasure in presenting their 6th Report alongwith the financial statements of the Company and the highlights of the performance of subsidiaries, associates and joint venture Companies (collectively referred to as “the Group”) and their contribution to the overall performance of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2019. Financial Highlights (H Crore) Particulars Standalone Consolidated FY–2018-19 FY–2017-18 FY–2018-19 FY–2017-18 Revenue from operations 164 125 9484 8827 Profit before interest, depreciation and tax 125 102 2186 2295 Less: Interest and Financial Charges 2 4 551 693 Profit before depreciation and tax 123 98 1635 1602 Less: Depreciation 4 4 1296 1213 Profit before tax 119 94 339 389 Provision for current tax 29 21 112 108 Provision for deferred tax 3 1 (119) 17 Prior year tax charge (14) (5) (28) Deferred tax for earlier years 2 1 Profit / (Loss) after tax before share of profit in associates/ 101 72 349 291 joint ventures Add: Share of Profit/ (Loss) in associates /joint ventures 0 0 0 0 Profit / (Loss) for the year after share of Profit / (Loss) in 101 72 349 291 associates / joint ventures Less: Share of minority interest 41 (1) Profit / (Loss) after tax 101 72 308 292 Other Comprehensive Income (11) 2 27 448 Total Comprehensive Income 90 74 376 739 Add: Surplus brought forward 123 82 2042 1242 Add: Amount transferred from debenture redemption reserve 62 131 Profit available for appropriation 213 156 2480 2112 Annual Report 2018-19 | 97 State of the Company’s affairs cancellation of cross holding of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited. The said Shares of the Company post reduction (a) Status of Group restructuring got listed and trading commenced with effect from Your Directors have pleasure to report that the Group January 22, 2019. restructuring activities have been completed and the Company is now the ultimate listed holding Company Further, on January 09, 2019 the Company had issued of the Group and the manufacturing undertaking(s) and allotted 17,83,06,606 equity shares of H2/each to inter-alia pertaining to cement, refractory and power the shareholders of erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited and have been consolidated into one operating Company, the same got listed and trading commenced with effect namely Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited, wholly-owned from January 25, 2019. subsidiary of the Company. (c) Change of name of the Company National Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”) and The name of the Company has been changed from BSE Limited (“BSE”) have issued permission for listing Odisha Cement Limited to Dalmia Bharat Limited with and trading of equity shares of the Company with effect effect from April 15, 2019. from December 21, 2018. The shares issued to the (d) Impact on profitability shareholders of erstwhile OCL India Limited started As a result of amortisation of intangible assets and trading with effect from that date. Subsequently on issue goodwill pursuant to the Schemes the profit/ (loss) before and allotment of shares to the shareholders of erstwhile tax is lower/ (higher) by as under: Dalmia Bharat Limited, NSE and BSE issued listing and (H in Crore) trading permission for these shares with effect from Particulars Year ended January 25, 2019. 31-03-2019 31-03-2018 (b) Changes in the capital structure Goodwill 420 417 Pursuant to the restructuring, the following changes have Intangible assets 134 146 taken place in the capital structure of the Company: Total 554 563 S. Capital Before After (e) Material events related to Subsidiary Companies No. restructuring restructuring 1. During the financial year 2018-19, the Company’s material (in H) (in H) subsidiary, namely Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited 1 Authorized share 10,00,000/370,10,00,000/(“DCBL”), has given a bank guarantee of H50 Crore to the capital Resolution Professional appointed for revival of Murli 2 Issued share 5,00,000/38,59,17,106/Industries Limited (MIL) as per the Resolution Plan filed capital pursuant to the provisions of Insolvency and Bankruptcy 3 Subscribed share 5,00,000/38,59,17,106/Code and recommended by the Committee of Creditors capital to the National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench 4 Paid up share 5,00,000/38,59,17,106/for its approval. Following receipt of requisite approvals, capital the Resolution Plan provides for payment of H402 Crore Pursuant to the Scheme(s) of Arrangement and to the creditors of MIL. The matter is currently pending Amalgamation (“Scheme”), the Company had, on October disposal at the NCLT, Mumbai Bench. 27, 2018, issued and allotted 5,69,00,220 equity shares of H10/each to the shareholders of erstwhile OCL India 2. During the financial year ended 31st March, 2019, certain Limited and the Company got listed and started trading mutual fund units (“Securities”) valued at H344 Crore on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India (value as on 31st December, 2018 and carried at same Limited with effect from December 21, 2018. Out of value) were illegally and fraudulently transferred by one of said 5,69,00,220 equity shares, 2,65,428 equity shares the Depository Participant (“DP”), from demat accounts were allotted to the Investor Education and Protection of its subsidiary company namely DCBL. Based on the Fund and the dividend accrued on the said shares complaint filed by DCBL and after preliminary enquiry, amounting to H4,51,227.67 (@ H1.70 per share declared the Economic Offences Wing, Delhi (EOW) directed by the Company at its Annual General Meeting held on the Clearing Agent of DP (i.e. ISSL) not to deal with the December 31, 2018) has also been transferred to Investor Securities and also froze such Securities till further Education and Protection Fund. orders. Further Pursuant to the Scheme, the share capital of Likewise, SEBI also directed the DP, its promoters/ the Company was then reduced on January 09, 2019 to directors, its related associates and other noticees 1,44,20,947 equity shares of H2/each by reduction of mentioned in the order, not to dispose of, alienate or face value of shares from H10/each to H2/each and encumber any assets, except with the prior permission of SEBI / National Stock Exchange. 98 | Dalmia Bharat Limited The matter is currently under investigation by SEBI and risks, decisions and outcomes in the short, medium and long EOW and also by DCBL through an independent firm of term. Chartered Accountants. The performance of the Group during financial year 2018-19 DCBL is confident of recovering its Securities based on is presented in the consolidated financial statements. The the legal opinion obtained in the matter to the effect that gross revenue of the Group for the financial year 2018-19 has there is a strong chance of getting its Securities returned. increased by 7.44 % which is H9484 crores as compared to Hence, no provision is considered necessary to be made H8827 crores in financial year 2017-18 and the profit before in the books of accounts currently. tax for financial year 2018-19 has decreased by 12.85% which is H339 crores as compared to H389 crores in financial year 3. The Government of Assam has granted Mega Project 2017-18 owing to increase in fuel, slag and other input costs. status to one of the step down Subsidiary namely Calcom Cement India Limited (“CCIL”), under the Management Discussion and Analysis for the year under Industrial and Investment Policy of Assam 2014 for the review, as stipulated in the Securities and Exchange Board investment done for establishment of clinkerisation unit of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) at Umrangshu (Assam). The said unit will be entitled to Regulations, 2015, giving detailed analysis of the performance 100% reimbursement of net State Goods and Services of the Company and the Group is presented in a separate Tax (“SGST”) paid for a period of 15 years from the date section forming part of this Annual Report. of commercial production. Accordingly, 100% remission The Company continues to be engaged inter-alia in the of SGST for the period from July 01, 2017 to March 31, business of providing management services. There have been 2019 of H51 crores has been recognized as income on no material changes and commitments affecting the financial reasonable assurance during the year under review. position of the Company between the end of the financial year 4. During the year under review, the profitability of CCIL and the date of this report. has improved on account of better utilization of installed capacity, increase in demand of cement and also Dividend recognition of remission of SGST. The management Your Directors have recommended a dividend of H2/(100%) based on the future profitability projections and also per equity share of face value of H2/each for the financial profits earned during the financial year 2018-19 and the year ended on March 31, 2019 as against dividend of H1.70/previous year is confident that there would be sufficient (85%) per equity share paid in the immediately preceding profit in future to utilize the unabsorbed amount of financial year. The proposed dividend is based on the financial depreciation and business losses etc. Accordingly, CCIL and non-financial factors prevailing during the year under has recognised deferred tax assets of H51 crores during review in terms of the Dividend Distribution Policy of the the current year under review. Company and the same is posted on the Company’s website www.dalmiacement.com. 5. The Cement manufacturing facility at one of the step down subsidiary namely, Dalmia DSP Limited, has been The Register of Members and Share Transfer books will commissioned on March 31, 2019. remain closed from August 24, 2019 to August 30, 2019 (both days inclusive) for the purposes of payment of dividend for the Operations and Business Performance financial year ended March 31, 2019 and the Annual General Your Company recorded net revenue of H164 crores for the Meeting. The Annual General Meeting is scheduled to be held financial year 2018-19 registering a growth of 31.20 % as on August 30, 2019. compared to the net revenue of H125 crores in the financial year 2017-18. Earned profit before tax of H119 crore during Transfer to reserves the financial year 2018-19 registering a growth of 26.60 % Your Directors do not propose to transfer any amount to the as compared to H94 crores earned in the last financial year General Reserve. 2017-18. Your Directors have pleasure to announce that the Company Credit rating There are no borrowings in the Company. In connection with has presented the current Annual Report prepared as per Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited, subsidiary of the Company Integrated Reporting framework. The operations and business and operating Company, ICRA has reaffirmed rating of [ICRA] performance of the Group is detailed in the Integrated Report AA and [ICRA]A1+ for the long term and the short term facilities being presented to the members, demonstrating the value respectively availed by Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited. The created by the Group while operating within its economic, said ratings are considered to have high degree of safety social and environmental system being inclusive of all regarding timely servicing of financial obligations. materially relevant capitals, connecting them to business Annual Report 2018-19 | 99 Consolidated Financial Statements Companies as on March 31, 2019. Dalmia Cement (Bharat) In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, Limited is the material unlisted subsidiary of the Company 2013 read with the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS), in terms of Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and of all the subsidiaries and associate companies for the as amended from time to time and the Company’s Policy financial year 2018-19 have been prepared in accordance for determining material subsidiary. The said Policy may be with applicable accounting standards and form part of the accessed at the Company’s website at www.dalmiacement. Integrated Annual Report. com The changes in the subsidiaries, joint venture Companies and Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Venture associate Companies during the financial year 2018-19 are Companies as under: The Company has 30 subsidiaries and 2 joint venture S. Name of Company Status (subsidiary/joint Added/Ceased Effective date No. venture/ associate) as such 1 Dalmia DSP Limited Subsidiary Company Added July 10, 2018 2 Hopco Industries Limited Subsidiary Company Added December 21, 2018 3 Dalmia Renewables Energy Limited Associate Company Ceased May 30, 2018 A statement containing the salient features of the financial of the Board is included in the report on Corporate Governance statement of the Company’s subsidiaries, joint ventures which forms part of this Annual Report. and associate Companies for the financial year ended March 31, 2019 in Form AOC-1 is attached and marked as Directors and Key Managerial Personnel Annexure 1 and forms part of this report. The contribution During the financial year 2018-19, pursuant to the of the Company’s subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates implementation of the Schemes of Arrangement and upon Companies to the overall performance of the Company during increase in the paid up share capital and listing of the the period under report is given under the aforementioned Company on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of financial highlights. India Limited, the Board of Directors has been reconstituted in due compliance with the Companies Act, 2013, SEBI LODR The Financial Statements of the Company/its Subsidiaries Regulations and the Nomination and Remuneration Policy of and the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company the Company. including all other documents required to be attached thereto, are placed on the Company’s website at www.dalmiacement. Mr. Pradip Kumar Khaitan, Mr. Jai Hari Dalmia, Mr. Yadu Hari com. These documents will also be available for inspection Dalmia, Mr. Gautam Dalmia, Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia, Mr. on all working days, during business hours, at the registered Nagarajan Gopalaswamy, Mr. Virendra Singh Jain, Mrs. Sudha office of the Company and any member desirous of obtaining Pillai, Mr. Dharmendar Nath Davar and Mr. Jayesh Doshi were a copy of the same may write to the Company Secretary. appointed as Additional Directors by the Board of Directors with effect from October 15, 2018 and were appointed as Board Meetings Directors by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting The Board meetings are scheduled on quarterly basis and as held on December 31, 2018. Mr. Ganesh Jirkuntwar and and when required. During the year under review, the Board Mr. Amandeep have resigned from the directorship with effect of Directors of the Company met six times, i.e., on May 15, from October 15, 2018; and Mr. Ashwini Kumar Dalmia has 2018, August 09, 2018 October 15, 2018, October 30, 2018, resigned from the directorship with effect from October 16, February 07, 2019 and March 18, 2019 out of which 1 meeting 2018. was held on October 30, 2018 was adjourned and concluded Mr. Gautam Dalmia and Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia have been on October 31, 2018. The Board meetings are conducted in appointed as Managing Director(s) and Mr. Jayesh Doshi has due compliance with and following the procedures prescribed been appointed as Whole Time Director and Chief Financial in the Companies Act, 2013, Securities and Exchange Board Officer of the Company, with effect from October 30, 2018. of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR Regulations”) and applicable In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, Secretarial Standards. Detailed information on the meetings 2013 and the Articles of Association of the Company, 100 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Mr. Jai Hari Dalmia, Mr. Yadu Hari Dalmia, Mr. Dharmendar The policy specifies the manner of effective evaluation of Nath Davar and Mr. Jayesh Doshi are liable to retire by performance of Board, its Committees and individual Directors rotation. Mr. Dharmendar Nath Davar shall retire by rotation to be carried out either by the Board, by the Nomination and at the ensuing Annual General Meeting, he however, has not Remuneration Committee or by an independent external offered himself for re-appointment. agency and review its implementation and compliance. The Nomination and Remuneration policy of the Company can be Mr. Pradip Kumar Khaitan, Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy, accessed at www.dalmiabharat.com Mr. Virendra Singh Jain and Mrs. Sudha Pillai, being the Independent Directors, have given their declaration(s) Performance Evaluation of meeting the criteria of independence laid down in the The annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI LODR Regulations. its committees and individual Directors was carried by the Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat has been acting as the Company Independent Directors, the Nomination and Remuneration Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company with effect Committee and the Board of Directors in compliance with from October 15, 2018. the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI LODR Regulations during financial year 2018-19. Committees of the Board An indicative criteria of evaluation was circulated to the During the financial year 2018-19, pursuant to the Directors to facilitate such evaluation. Based on the feedback implementation of the Schemes of Arrangement and in terms of the Directors and on due deliberations of the views and of the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI LODR Regulations, the counter views, the evaluation was carried out in terms of the following committees of the Board have been constituted: Nomination and Remuneration Policy and such indicative • Audit Committee criterion. • Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee • Nomination and Remuneration Committee Directors’ Responsibility Statement Your Directors state that: • Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (a) In preparation of the annual accounts for the year ended • Risk Management Committee March 31, 2019, the applicable accounting standards • Group Governance Committee. have been followed and there are no material departures The details with respect to the compositions, powers, terms from the same; of reference and other related matters of the committees (b) The Directors have selected such accounting policies are given in detail in the Corporate Governance Report which and applied them consistently and made judgements and forms part of this Annual Report. estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company Nomination and Remuneration Policy at the end of the financial year and of the profit of the The Nomination and Remuneration Policy of the Company Company for that period; lays down the constitution and role of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. The policy has been framed with (c) The Directors have taken proper and sufficient care for the objective – the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding (a) to ensure that appointment of directors, key managerial the assets of the Company and for preventing and personnel and senior managerial personnel and detecting frauds and other irregularities; their removals are in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the SEBI (d) The Directors have prepared the annual accounts on a LODR Regulations; going concern basis; (b) to set out criteria for the evaluation of performance and (e) The Directors have laid down internal financial controls remuneration of directors, key managerial personnel and to be followed by the Company and that such internal senior managerial personnel; financial controls are adequate and were operating effectively; (c) to recommend to the Board, the remuneration payable to senior management; (f) The Directors have devised proper system to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws (d) to adopt best practices to attract and retain talent by the and that such systems were adequate and operating Company; and effectively. (e) to ensure diversity of the Board of the Company. Annual Report 2018-19 | 101 Particulars of Remuneration of Directors, Key enhance the reputation of the Company as a responsible Managerial Personnel and Employees and sustainable company in order to attract as well as retain The details relating to the ratio of the remuneration of talents, customers, suppliers, investors and to maintain each director to the median employee’s remuneration and fulfilling relationships with the communities. other prescribed details in terms of Section 197(12) of the The strong corporate governance and zeal to grow has helped Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies the Group to deliver the best value to the stakeholders. We (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) have always been positively cautious about the near term Rules, 2014 is attached and marked as Annexure – 2 and and optimistic about the medium and long term in view of forms part of this Report. the improved macro indicators for the economy, significant A statement showing the names of the top ten employees in growth in public spending and focused execution plans. terms of remuneration drawn and other employees drawing The Corporate Governance Report for the financial year 2018remuneration in excess of the limits set out in Rules 5(2) 19 as required under SEBI LODR Regulations of the Company and other particulars in terms of Rule 5(3) of the Companies is attached hereto and forms part of this Report. The requisite (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) certificate(s) from the Secretarial Auditor of the Company Rules, 2014 is attached and marked as Annexure – 2A and confirming compliance with the conditions of Corporate forms part of this report. Governance and from Company Secretary in practice that none of the Directors of the Company have been debarred or Employees’ Stock Option Scheme disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors The Board of Directors of the Company has, in its meeting of the Company by Secruities and Exchanged Board of India/ held on October 30, 2018, adopted DBEL ESOP Scheme 2011 Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such authority is attached of erstwhile DBL with a new name “DBL ESOP Scheme 2018” to the Corporate Governance Report. having the same terms and conditions. In terms of and as an integral part of the Scheme of Business Responsibility Report Arrangement, in lieu of every 1 (one) ESOP under DBEL ESOP The Business Responsibility Report, as stipulated under Scheme 2011 the Company has granted 2 (Two) new stock Regulation 34 (2) (f) of SEBI LODR Regulations, describing options, aggregating to 22,72,000 ESOPs, under the DBEL the initiatives taken by the Company from environment, social ESOP Scheme 2018 to the eligible employees and the existing and governance perspective forms part of this Annual Report 11,36,000 ESOPs pending to be allotted / granted under the prepared as per the Integrated Reporting framework. DBEL ESOP Scheme 2011 stand cancelled. The New Options entitle the eligible employees to purchase 1 (one) equity share Extract of Annual Return of the Company for each New Option. In terms of the provisions of Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Management and The BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited Administration) Rules, 2014, the extract of annual return had issued in-principal approval for further listing of 22,72,000 of your Company for the financial year ended March 31, equity shares of H2/each on allotment of ESOPs. 2019 has been uploaded at the Company’s website www. During the year, 2,31,000 stock options were vested into dalmiacement.com. eligible employees against which 2,31,000 equity shares of H2/each were allotted upon exercise of stock options by the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) employees. The Group has been following the concept of giving back and sharing with the under privileged sections of the society for In terms of the provisions of the SEBI (Share Based Employee more than seven decades. The Corporate Social Responsibility Benefits) Regulations, 2014, the details of the Stock Options of the Group is based on the principal of Gandhian Trusteeship. granted under the Scheme are available on the Company’s For over seven decades, the Group has addressed the issues website at www.dalmiacement.com. of health care and sanitation, education, rural development, A certificate from the Statutory Auditors of the Company on women empowerment and other social development issues. implementation of the Company’s Employees Stock Option The prime objective of our Corporate Social Responsibility Scheme will be placed at the ensuing Annual General Meeting policy is to hasten social, economic and environmental for inspection by the members. progress. We remain focused on generating systematic and sustainable improvement for local communities surrounding Corporate Governance Report our plants and project sites. Your Directors are committed to achieving the highest The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the Company standards of ethics, corporate governance and continue may be accessed at the Company’s website www. to comply with the Code of Conduct. The endeavour is to dalmiacement.com. Pursuant to the said Policy, the Company 102 | Dalmia Bharat Limited has spent aggregating to H95 Lakhs towards corporate social required. There are established Cause-Effect-Action (CEA) responsibility activities during the financial year 2018-19. The systems and escalation matrices to ensure that all critical said amount spent was more than 2% of average net profits aspects are addressed well in time. of the Company made during three immediately preceding The Statutory Auditors in their report on Consolidated financial years, post giving effect to the Scheme(s). The annual Financial Statements have made certain observations report on corporate social responsibility activities is attached regarding internal financial controls of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) and marked as Annexure – 3 and forms part of this Report. Limited, subsidiary of the Company in respect of mutual fund investments in demat accounts; and the Company has since Related Party Transaction Policy and attached the issue and taken measures to strengthen the Transactions internal controls. (refer clarifications on statutory auditors Your Company has formulated a policy on related party report mentioned herein below). transactions and dealing with related party transactions duly approved by the Board of Directors and same may be Whistle Blower Policy and Vigil Mechanism accessed at the Company’s website at www.dalmiacement. The Company has in place the Whistle Blower Policy and Vigil com Mechanism for Directors, employees and other stakeholders Prior omnibus approval is obtained for related party which provides a platform to them for raising their voice transactions which are of repetitive nature and entered in the about any breach of code of conduct, financial irregularities, ordinary course of business and at an arms’ length basis. health, safety, environmental issues. Adequate safeguards All related party transactions are placed before the Audit are provided against victimization of stakeholders who use Committee for review and approval. such mechanism and direct access to the Chairman of the All related party transactions entered during the financial year Audit Committee in appropriate cases is provided. The Whistle 2018-19 were the ordinary course of the business and on an Blower Policy and Vigil Mechanism may be accessed on the arms’ length basis. The particulars of material contracts or Company’s website at www.dalmiacement.com. arrangements or transactions entered into with the related parties at arm’s length basis are provided in prescribed Form Disclosure under the Sexual Harassment of AOC-2 which is attached and marked as Annexure – 4 and forms part of this Report. Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 Risk Management Your Company is committed to ensuring that all are treated Your Company has a Risk Management Committee which with dignity and respect. The Human Resource and the Legal monitors and reviews the risk management plan / process of & Secretarial department in collaboration with other functions, your Company. The Company has adequate risk management ensure protection against sexual harassment of women at procedures in place. The major risks are assessed through a workplace and for the prevention and redressal of complaint systemic procedure of risk identification and classification. in this regard. Risks are prioritised according to significance and likelihood. In line with the requirements of the Sexual Harassment of The Risk Management Committee oversees the risk Women at the Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) management process. There are no elements of risk which Act, 2013, an Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy has been put in the opinion of the Board may threaten the existence of the in place and Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) has been Company. set up to redress complaints received regarding sexual harassment. During the financial year 2018-19, no complaint Adequacy of Internal Financial Controls has been received by ICC. Internal financial controls are an integrated part of the risk management process. Your Company has in place adequate Loans, Guarantees, Security and Investments internal control systems commensurate with the size of its Your Company has given loans and guarantees, provided operations and the policies and procedures adopted by your security and made investments within the limits with the Company ensures the orderly and efficient conduct of business, necessary approvals and in terms and accordance with the the safeguarding of assets, the prevention and detection of provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013. The frauds and errors, the adequacy and completeness of the particulars of such loans and guarantees given, securities accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable provided and investments made are provided in the Standalone financial information. The entire system is complemented by Financial Statements at note nos. 6, 7, 9, 10, 40 and 41. external auditing of selected functions such as the SAP – IT ERP system and IT general controls. Energy Conservation, Technology Absorption The internal auditors of the Company conduct regular internal audits as per approved plan and the Audit Committee reviews and Foreign Exchange Transactions The particulars of energy conservation and technology periodically the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control absorption are not applicable to the Company as it is not systems and takes steps for corrective measures whenever engaged in any manufacturing activity. Annual Report 2018-19 | 103 The total foreign exchange earned by the Company during the statements with respect to Report on the Internal Financial financial year 2018-19 is Nil and the total foreign exchange Controls under clause (i) of sub section 3 of section 143 of used by the Company during the financial year 2018-19 is the Companies Act, 2013, reported their qualified opinion H3.93 crores. with regard to the internal control system of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited (“DCBL”), wholly owned subsidiary of the Cost records Company for existence and verification of investments in Your Company is not required to maintain the cost records as Mutual Fund Units maintained in Demat Accounts were not specified by the Central Government under sub section (1) of operating effectively during the current financial year to detect section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013. the lapses on timely basis, which could potentially result in material misstatement of carrying value of such investments. Statutory Auditor and their report In this connection, DCBL has since taken all necessary steps M/s. S. S. Kothari Mehta & Company, the Statutory Auditors of to strengthen the internal controls to plug any further risk in the Company hold office as such till the conclusion of eighth this regard. The Statutory Auditors of DCBL and the Company Annual general Meeting of the Company to be held in 2021. have also verified and confirmed that necessary remedial They have confirmed that they are eligible to continue as the measures have since been taken to strengthen the controls. Statutory Auditors of the Company and that they hold a valid The clarification and explanations mentioned here as well as certificate issued by the Peer Review Board of the Institute of in the note no 49 of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Chartered Accountants of India. Statement are self-explanatory and do not call for any further There is no qualification, reservation or adverse remark in comments and explanation. their report on Standalone Financial Statements. The notes on financial statements referred to in the Auditors’ Report Secretarial Auditor and their Report are self-explanatory and do not call for any comments and The Board of Directors has appointed Mr. R. explanation. The Auditors have not reported any matter under Venkatasubramanian, Practising Company Secretary, as Section 143 (12) of the Act during the year under review. Secretarial Auditors of the Company for the financial year 2018-19. The Report submitted by the Statutory Auditors on the consolidated financial statements of the Company do not The Secretarial Audit report in Form MR 3 for financial year contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark or 2018-19 is attached and marked as Annexure – 5 and forms disclaimer. However, the Statutory Auditors in their report on part of this Report. There is no qualification, reservation or the consolidated financial statements included matters of adverse remark in the Secretarial Audit Report. emphasis regarding (a) dispute between minority shareholders Your Company is in compliance with all the Secretarial of CCIL and DCBL which is under adjudication before the Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of Arbitral Tribunal. Pending final disposal of the disputes, no India and having become effective. adjustments are considered necessary in these financial statements (b) current investments valued at H344 crores as Public Deposits on December 31, 2018 (carried as current investments as on No public deposits are accepted by the Company. March 31, 2019 at same value) appearing in the books of DCBL have been fraudulently and unauthorisedly transferred by the Orders passed by Regulators depository participant. DCBL is fully confident of recovering There are no significant and material orders passed by the its Securities based on the legal opinion obtained in the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern matter to the effect that there is a strong chance of getting its status and Company’s operations in future. Securities returned, hence no provision is made in it’s books of accounts (c) amortisation of goodwill as per the provisions Acknowledgement of Scheme(s) of arrangement and amalgamation. The said The Board of Directors would like to express their sincere Emphasis of Matters have been explained and clarified in note appreciation for the assistance and co-operation received no. 44, note no. 49 and note no. 3(e) of the notes to accounts from the Government authorities, financial institutions, banks, to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company for customers, vendors and members during the year under the year ended March 31, 2019, which are self explanatory review. The Board of Directors also wish to place on record its and do not call for any further comments and explanation. deep sense of appreciation for the committed services by the The Statutory Auditors in their report on consolidated financial Company’s executives, staff and workers. For and on behalf of the Board P.K. Khaitan Place: New Delhi Chairman Dated: May 09, 2019 DIN-0004821 104 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Annexure 1 Dalmia Bharat Limited (formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) AOC-1 Salient features of financial statements of Subsidiary / Associates / Joint Ventures as per Companies Act, 2013 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise Statement pursuant to section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate Companies and Joint Ventures PART A : Subsidiaries (H in Crore) Sl. Name of the subsidiary Reporting Share Reserves Total Total InvestTurnover Profit Provision Profit Proposed % of no. Currency capital & Surplus Assets Liabilities ments before for after Dividend shareholdtaxation taxation taxation ing Subsidiary 1 Dalmia Cement (Bharat) INR 314 8,851 18,177 9,012 984 8,312 98 18 80 100.00% Limited 2 Dalmia Power Limited INR 1 182 1,009 826 1,001 13 (14) (0) (14) 100.00% Step down Subsidiaries 3 D.I. Properties Limited INR 1 1 2 0 (0) (0) 100.00% 4 Shri Rangam Properties INR 1 9 11 0 (0) (0) 100.00% Limited 5 Dalmia Minerals & Properties INR 1 52 52 0 13 (0) (0) 100.00% Limited 6 Sri Shanamugha Mines & INR 1 8 9 0 (0) (0) 100.00% Minerals Limited 7 Sri Subramanya Mines & INR 0 6 6 0 (0) (0) 100.00% Minerals Limited 8 Ishita Properties Limited INR 0 (2) 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 100.00% 9 Hemshila Properties Limited INR 1 6 7 0 0 (0) 0 (0) 100.00% 10 Geetee Estates Limited INR 1 7 7 (1) (0) (0) 100.00% 11 Sri Swaminatha Mines & INR 0 3 4 0 (0) (0) 100.00% Minerals Limited 12 Sri Trivikrama Mines & INR 0 6 7 0 (0) (0) 100.00% Properties Limited 13 Sri Madhusudana Mines & INR 0 7 7 0 (0) (0) 100.00% Properties Limited 14 Sri Dhandauthapani Mines & INR 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 100.00% Minerals Limited 15 Golden Hills Resort Private INR 1 0 2 1 (0) (0) 100.00% Limited 16 Rajputna Properties Private INR 0 (0) 3 3 4 (0) (0) 100.00% Limited 17 Sutnga Mines Private INR 2 0 2 0 2 0 (0) 0 (0) 100.00% Limited 18 Cosmos Cements Limited INR 13 (1) 50 37 0 (0) 0 (0) 100.00% 19 Calcom Cement India INR 409 396 1,530 725 73 882 162 (51) 213 76.00% Limited 20 RCL Cements Limited INR 4 5 38 30 31 1 (4) (4) 100.00% 21 SCL Cement Limited INR 3 45 4 (43) 0 (9) (9) 100.00% 22 Vinay Cement Limited INR 19 (157) 136 274 53 13 (25) (25) 97.21% 23 Bangaru Kamakshi Amman INR 0 4 4 0 (0) (0) 100.00% Agro Farms Private Limited 24 Jayevijay Agro Farms Private INR 0 3 4 0 (0) (0) 100.00% Limited 25 OCL Global Limited USD 0 80 85 4 28 175 22 22 100.00% 26 OCL China Limited RMB 24 22 61 15 145 6 1 5 90.00% 27 Alsthom Industries Limited INR 19 12 180 149 14 216 22 3 19 99.99% 28 Chandrasekara Agro Farms INR 0 2 2 0 (0) (0) 100.00% Private Limited 29 Hopco Industries Limited INR 0 0 0 0 100.00% 30 Dalmia DSP Limited INR 150 (138) 445 433 (0) (0) 100.00% Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operation Hapco Industries Limited Annual Report 2018-19 | 105 PART B : Associates and Joint Ventures Statement pursuant to section 129 (3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to Associate Companies and Joint Ventures Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held by the company at the year end (H in Crore) Sl. Name of Associate/Joint Latest No. of Amount of Extend of Networth Profit / Loss Profit / Description Reason no. Venture audited shares Investment Holding % attributable to for the year Loss for of how there why the Balance in Associate/ Shareholding considered in the year not is significant associate/ Sheet Date Joint Venture as per latest consolidation considered in influence joint venture audited consolidation is not Balance Sheet consolidated Joint Venture 1 Khappa Coal Company Private 31-Mar-19 18,36,500 2 36.73% 1 Limited 2 Radhikapur (West) Coal 31-Mar-19 73,48,000 4 14.70% 4 0 Mining Private Limited Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Managing Director Managing Director DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 106 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Annexure 2 Details pertaining to remuneration as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 for the financial year 2018-19. 1. Details of the ratio of remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the financial year 2018-19 and the percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary during the financial year 2018-19 are as under: Name of the Director/KMP and Remuneration of Ratio of remuneration % increase in the Designation Director/KMP for the of each Director to remuneration in the F.Y. F.Y. 2018-19 median remuneration 2018-19# (H in Crore) of employees of the Company * Mr. P.K. Khaitan, Chairman 0.45 4.5 Not Applicable Non-Executive Independent Mr. Jai Hari Dalmia 0.02 0.2 Not Applicable Non-Executive Mr. Yadu Hari Dalmia 0.02 0.2 Not Applicable Non-Executive Mr. Gautam Dalmia 6.24 62.4 Not Applicable Managing Director Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia 7.78 77.8 Not Applicable Managing Director Mr. N. Gopalaswamy 0.16 1.6 Not Applicable Non-Executive Independent Mr. V.S. Jain 0.27 2.7 Not Applicable Non-Executive Independent Mrs. Sudha Pillai 0.15 1.5 Not Applicable Non-Executive Independent Mr. Dharmendar Nath Davar 0.22 2.2 Not Applicable Non-Executive Mr. Jayesh Doshi 6.13 61.3 Not Applicable Whole-time Director & CFO Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat 1.66 16.6 Not Applicable Company Secretary Note: * The median remuneration of employees of the Company during the financial year 2017-18 was H10,44,159/# The Directors and KMPs were appointed in the Company from October 15, 2019 hence figures of increase in remuneration is not available/ applicable. 1. The Company did not have any permanent employee during the last financial year hence maiden remuneration for last financial year is NIL / not available hence percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year was not available. 2. The number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company at the end of the financial year was 315. 3. The average percentage increase in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel and managerial personnel during the financial year 2018-19 is not available since the Company had nil employee during last financial year 2017-18. 4. It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration paid to Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and senior management personnel is as per the Nomination & Remuneration Policy of the Company. Annual Report 2018-19 | 107 Annexure 2A Dalmia Bharat Limited (formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Statement of Pariculars of Employees pursuant to Rules 5(2) and 5(3) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 for the financial year 2018-19 Sl. Name Age Designation Qualification Experience Date of Date of Name of the Company Designation Remuneration Whether no. (years) Commencement leaving (last employment) (last employment) received related to 108 | Dalmia Bharat Limited of Employment* (H in Crore) a Director A. Employed throughout the year NILthere was no employee in the Company prior to implementation of the Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation on October 30, 2018. B. Employed for part of the Year 1 SANJAY S MITRA 57 SENIOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR B.COM (HONS.), F.C.A. 35 YEARS 12/07/83 – DALMIA BHARAT SUGAR & SR. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 1.03 No INDUSTRIES LIMITED 2 R K AGRAWAL 61 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CA, CS(INTER), B.COM 42 YEARS 01/09/97 – DALMIA INDUSTRIES LIMITED DEPUTY GENERAL # 1.41 No MANAGER 3 SURATH KR. 50 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR A.C.A , A.I.C.W.A 24 YEARS 29/08/08 – DALMIA BHARAT SUGAR & ASSISTANT EXECUTIVE 1.39 No MUKHERJEE INDUSTRIES LIMITED DIRECTOR 4 SAMEER NAGPAL 49 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER BE MECHANICAL, PGDBM 29 YEARS 03/08/15 – SHALIMAR PAINTS MANAGING DIRECTOR 1.63 No REFRACTORY & CEO 5 REENA VERMA 46 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CFA AIMR LONDON 23 YEARS 01/12/16 – ARPWOOD EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 1.66 No BHASIN (MERGERS AND ACQUISITION ) 6 SANJEEV GEMAWAT 49 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR GRADUATE IN LAWS; GRADUATE IN 25 YEARS 01/01/16 – DALMIA CEMENT (BHARAT) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 1.74 No COMMERCE; CS; CA; DOCTORATE LIMITED OF PHILOSOPHY; ICWAI; 7 AMIT GARG 51 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR PGDM MARKETING AND FINANCE 25 YEARS 21/11/16 – HINDUSTAN TIMES EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 1.96 No 8 B B MEHTA 65 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER B.COM (HONS.), A.C.A 42 YEARS 01/02/93 – DALMIA BHARAT SUGAR & SR. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 2.53 No SUGAR BUSINESS INDUSTRIES LIMITED 9 AJIT MENON 54 SENIOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR B.S.C, B.B.A 22 YEARS 31/08/12 – DDB MUDRA PRIVATE LIMITED EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 5.72# No (ORGANIZATION DEVELOPMENT) 10 JAYESH NAGINDAS 54 WHOLE TIME DIRECTOR & CFO B.COM, L.L.B, A.C.A. 27 YEARS 01/02/13 – PANCHSHIL REALTY GROUP DIRECTOR 6.21# No DOSHI STRATEGY & FINANCE 11 HARISH CHANDER 61 GROUP GENERAL COUNCEL B.COM (H), LLB 38 YEARS 10/08/09 – DALMIA BHARAT SUGAR & GROUP GENERAL 3.95 No SEHGAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED COUNSEL 12 PUNEET YADU 46 MANAGING DIRECTOR B. TECH. AND MBA 22 YEARS 31/10/18 – DALMIA CEMENT (BHARAT) MANAGING DIRECTOR 7.81** Yes** DALMIA LIMITED 13 GAUTAM DALMIA 51 MANAGING DIRECTOR B.SC, M.S.IN ELECTRICAL 27 YEARS 31/10/18 – DALMIA CEMENT (BHARAT) MANAGING DIRECTOR 6.3** Yes** ENGINEERING, COLUMBIA LIMITED UNIVERSITY * Date of commencement of employment of all the employees except Mr. Gautam Dalmia and Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia , is in the erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited. All these employees were employees of erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited and became employees of the Company pursuant to the Scheme of Arrnagement and Amalgamation. ** Mr. Gautam Dalmia and Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia are sons of Mr. J.H. Dalmia and Mr. Y.H. Dalmia, respectively. Mr. J.H.Dalmia and Mr. Y.H. Dalmia, are brothers and accordingly all the four Directors are related to each other. # The remuneration includes perquisite value of shares alloted under ESOP scheme of erstwhile DBL. Notes: 1. None of the employees held 2% or more of the equity shares of the Company by himself or alongwith his spouse and dependent children. 2. Mr. Gautam Dalmia and Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia have been appointed as the Managing Director(s) of the Company for a period of five years. Annexure 3 ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018-19 1. A brief outline of the Company’s Corporate Social Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal, and in more than 1,200 Responsibility policy, including overview of projects or villages in 15 districts. programs proposed to be undertaken and a reference to the web-link to the Corporate Social Responsibility PROGRAMME OUTREACH DURING FINANCIAL policy and projects or programs. YEAR 2018-19 Our Key Focus Areas CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 1. Soil and Water Conservation Dalmia Bharat Group was founded in 1935 and has been Depleting water table is a massive problem being following the concept of giving back and sharing with faced across the country. In our neighbouring the under privileged sections of the society for more communities, the water table is as low as 500 feet, than eight decades. The Corporate Social Responsibility creating water scarcity and stress for agriculture and of the Company is based on the Gandhian principle of household use. We are thus working on a systematic, Trusteeship. For over eight decades the Company has integrated and predictive approach for water addressed the issues of health and sanitation, education, management along with the community for water rural infrastructure, women empowerment and other conservation, water management, construction, social development issues. renovation and maintenance of water harvesting The prime objective of our Corporate Social Responsibility structures for improving surface and ground water Policy is to hasten social, economic and environmental availability like check dams, village and farm ponds, progress. We remain focussed on generating systematic ring wells, watershed activities. and sustainable improvement for local communities • Our initiatives have enabled an additional water surrounding our plants and project sites. harvesting and saving of 19.8 lakh m3 this year, In the recent years, Company has realigned its Corporate taking the total water harvested per year to 64 Social Responsibility to focus on issues material to lakh m3. the Company and its stakeholders. The approach is to • Integrated Watershed Management Project make significant and sustainable difference through our programmes in the lives of beneficiaries by working o The watershed projects are being in partnership with our stakeholders. Stakeholder implemented in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh engagements and baseline studies highlighted the issues and Karnataka covering an area of 9,200 of water scarcity, erratic power supply, unemployment Hectares. amongst rural youths and basic rural infrastructure o 7,971 acres of land was treated with 1,42,226 needs in our neighbouring community. The company running metres of bunding work, 8 gabion realized that these issues were more material to their structures, 2 check dams, 3 check walls, 800 Group’s businesses as well as to the communities around trenches, 12 farm ponds, etc enabling water their facilities. Dalmia Bharat Group thus planned their harvesting of 4.29 lakh m3 of water. Corporate Social Responsibility programmes in sectors o 440 women SHG members got a loan of of Soil & water conservation; Energy conservation and H77.04 lakh from the watershed committees climate change mitigation; Skill development & livelihood for exploring small livelihood options like Training and Social Development and started aiming at Milch Animals, Sheep rearing, nursery, creation of shared values for all stakeholders. goatery, etc. o Agroforestry has been promoted in 32 Our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy can be acres of land with plantation of neem, accessed on www.dalmiacement.com tikur and local trees. Horticulture has been Presently, Dalmia Bharat Limited is working in 11 done around the homes of beneficiaries states viz. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, with plantation of 7,190 fruit tree saplings Jharkhand, Karnataka, Meghalaya, Odisha, Rajasthan, like mango, lemon, guava, etc. Also, fodder Annual Report 2018-19 | 109 development was undertaken on 1.8 acres communities is another focus area of Dalmia Bharat of land. Group. Our technology innovation initiatives have helped • Under the Tribal Development Fund project operationalize and decentralize renewable energy initiated in Umrongso, plantation of more than solutions in the rural areas by promoting fuel-efficient 49,920 horticulture plants like litchi, guava, lemon cook stoves, Liquified Petroleum Gas connections, and drumstick undertaken along with plantation bio gas plants, Solar lighting systems like lanterns, street of 45 Metric Tons of turmeric in 300 acres of lights, study lamps and home lighting systems. land. Along with this, 120 contour trenches to • With the cumulative effort of our initiatives in this aid 34,560 m3 of water harvesting. This project is focus area, we were able to convert benefiting 500 households by developing wadis in 500 acres of land and thus creating additional o 46 villages to Clean Cooking Villages, where each livelihood opportunities. household uses a cleaner cooking fuel. Till now, we have converted 115 villages to Clean Cooking • Chirawa Water Conservation Project villages. o 320 rainwater harvesting tanks and 36 o 62 villages to Clean Lighting Villages, where no recharge wells constructed creating water household uses kerosene for lighting. Till now, harvesting capacity of 6,400m3. we have converted 135 villages to Clean Lighting o 204 Vermicompost plants, 32 soak pits and villages. 50 Toilets constructed • 907 households lit up with Clean Lighting Solutions • Drip Irrigation was implemented in 306 acres of – Solar Lanterns. Study lamps and Home lighting land, benefiting 1,500 villagers in south locations solutions and saving 8.9 lakh m3 of water. • 70 Solar Street Lights installed in Kadapa, Lanjiberna • 17 Village Ponds have been constructed or and Cuttack benefitting nearly 10,464 villagers. 655 renovated paving way for conservation of almost LED Street lights were also promoted benefitting 61,200 m3 water, benefiting more than 18,650 11,000 people. 180 LED lights were also promoted. beneficiaries. • This year, we extended the Ujjwala Scheme of • 37 Farm Ponds dug creating an additional water Government of India to promote 2,316 Liquified harvesting capacity of 2.76 lakh m3. Petroleum Gas Connections among beneficiaries. • 6 Check Dams were constructed creating an • Along with that, we also promoted 270 fuel efficient additional water harvesting capacity of 54,000 cook stoves. m3. • 4 solar powered e-shalas were established with a • 2 Causeways were constructed in Kadapa beneficiary reach of over 1,383. benefitting 500 beneficiaries and creating an additional water harvesting capacity of 5,250 m3. • Through our initiatives to promote clean energy solutions, we are helping in reduction 40,102 tons of • Harvesting of rice was done in 166 acres of land CO2 emissions, every year. brought under Systematic Rice Intensification (SRI) process of Rice Cultivation in Lanjiberna, 3. Livelihood Skill Training Lanka and Rajgangpur in collaboration with the Unemployment amongst the rural youth is significantly Agriculture Department. The yield was 60-70% high and substantiate number of them are just employed more than the conventional method. seasonally. Aiming at long term benefits for the youths and their family, the company has started many Skill • Dhaincha (Green Manure) Cultivation promoted Development programmes and provided training in areas in 25 acres of land in Lanjiberna area in like Stitching, Tailoring, Food processing, Computer collaboration with Agriculture Department and education and many other. We have also set up DIKSHa mustard cultivation was promoted in 30 acres of (Dalmia Institute of Knowledge and Skill Harnessing) land. Centres in partnership with National Skill Development 2. Access to Clean Energy Corporation. Energy is another major concern in rural India, with • Our flagship skill training programme of DIKSHa majority of the population being dependent on depleting Dalmia Institute of Knowledge and Skill Harnessing fuel wood and erratic electricity supply. Clean and Centre renewable energy for the poor and vulnerable rural 110 | Dalmia Bharat Limited o Has grown this year with a strength of 9 centres. • 28 Joint Liability Groups were promoted with 190 members. These groups in Kadapa have taken a loan o Through these centres, 761 trainees passed of H1.9 crore and have initiated small businesses for in this year and 671 trainees are undergoing additional livelihood opportunities. Training. • Apart from DIKSHa, we have enabled and supported o Out of the passed trainees, 439 trainees have 3,036 households with trainings, exposure and linkage been placed and others are in process for to government schemes and financial institutions to placement. Our trainees are earning monthly explore additional livelihood opportunities. salary in the range of H6,000 – 18,000. 4. Social Development o We now have collaboration with the 3 State Skill The stakeholder engagement highlighted the issue of poor Development Missions of Odisha, Karnataka and basic infrastructure which hinders the daily life as well as Tamil Nadu and are also partnering with National development of these villages. The company is helping in Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, building the basic infrastructure needs of the community National Scheduled Castes Finance and like School Sanitation blocks, low cost toilets, community Development Corporation and Schneider halls, school buildings etc. Health is another concern Electric. among the community and company has pitched in by • The 6 Farmer Producer Companies in Ariyalur arranging General as well as Specialized Health Camps, and Kadapa (of farmers growing Cotton, Paddy, providing medicines, Immunizations, Maternal and Child vegetables, Dairy and Bengal Gram) have grown with health Care. increased shareholders, availing loans from financial • In Cuttack, through our Mobile Medicare Unit we institutions and grant schemes from government, providing basic curative medical care to 19,841 increased turnover and profits. people in 13 villages. o There are now 2,598 shareholders and the FPOs • 28,087 patients availed medical facilities through the have availed loan of H87 lakhs and grant from dispensary, OCL-LVPEI Hospital and Homeopathic government schemes worth H105 lakhs. dispensary at Lanjiberna. o The Vegetable FPO in Ariyalur has set up • 55 Health Camps were organized across locations in “Value addition centre” for vegetables and South, East and North-East benefitting around 9,111 Millet products, with assistance from local beneficiaries. 22 specialty health camps benefitted Agriculture Department. The centre is producing 4,181 patients. oil by traditional methods (Groundnut, Sesame & Coconut oil) and processing millets’ powder • 223 Eye camps benefitted 16,368 patients with eye making. The products are being directly sold screening check-ups. from the centre under “Ariyalur Arima” Trade • Overall, our health initiatives helped more than 80,000 mark name. beneficiaries including 4,698 beneficiaries who were o The Dairy FPO of Kadapa engaged in collective made aware on various health and sanitation related procurement and selling of Milk to Dodla Dairy issues. and Jarsi Dairy is now selling an average 770 • 568 Individual Sanitary Latrines were constructed litres of milk per day. across locations. • 110 new Self Help Groups were formed in this year • 154 sanitation campaigns under Swachhta with 1,834 members. The SHGs have a corpus of Pakhwada and Skill se Swachhta created awareness H15.9 crore and have availed a loan of H54 lakh. 2075 on sanitation facilities, individual hygiene and clean women from 455 of our Self Help Groups are involved villages. in income generation activities like mushroom cultivation, dairy, home based chemical products, • Through our 2 HP World on Wheels, we have stitching, food processing, etc. computer courses to 681 students. Along with this, the technology in bus was utilized to provide training • 40 trainings were given across locations to 1,525 to SHGs, farmers, Farmer Producer Organizations; beneficiaries on livelihood skills like mushroom Drivers’ safety and license training, training to cultivation, bee-keeping, dairy, poultry, stitching, youth on MS Office and use of bus for community sustainable rice intensification, food processing, etc. awareness on sanitation, environment, water, etc. Most of them are utilizing these trainings and have These initiatives helped 4,381 beneficiaries. started their small businesses. Annual Report 2018-19 | 111 • 18 Remedial Education Centres are running across Composition of the Corporate Social Responsibility the locations with enrollment of 976 students of High Committee of Dalmia Bharat Limited is: School and elementary classes. Parents Teachers 1. Mr. V. S. Jain, Independent Director, Chairman interaction held in Remedial Centres. 2. Mr. Y. H. Dalmia, Executive Director, Member • Under the Dalmia Happy School Project, 21 schools were assisted with desk, benches, infrastructure, 3. Mr. Gautam Dalmia, Non-Executive Director, Member Teaching Learning Materials, drinking water, etc. 4. Ms. Sudha Pillai, Independent Director, Member benefitting more than 2,796 students. Schools and colleges were also supported through education 5. Average net profit of the company for last three awareness, competitions, sports day, etc. 6600 financial years – H31.70 Crore students benefitted from these initiatives. 6. Prescribed Corporate Social Responsibility • Initiatives in sports like infrastructure, coaching and Expenditure (two per cent of the amount as in item 3 providing of sports material benefitted 2,135 children above) – H63 Lakh and youth. 7. Details of Corporate Social Responsibility spent • 32 infrastructure works like roads, drinking water during the financial yearfacilities, bore wells, etc. benefitted more than 15,000 (a) Total amount to be spent for the financial yearpeople. H95 Lakh • 8 veterinary camps were organized benefitting more (b) Amount unspent, if any: Nothing is remained than 1,000 animals. unspent • Days of National and International importance (c) Manner in which the amount spent during the like Word Environment Day, Independence Day, financial year is detailed below. No Tobacco Day, Women Day etc. observed in all Attached as Annexure-3A to this report. locations, with participation of school children, women, all villagers, Panchayat. 8. In case the company has failed to spend the two per cent, of the average net profit of the last three Awards and accolades financial years or any part thereof, the company Various initiatives of Dalmia Bharat Limited have been shall provide the reasons for not spending the recognised over the years for their innovative nature and amount in its Board report: extraordinary impacts. In the Financial Year 2018-19, Dalmia Bharat Group received following awards in the Not Applicable field of Corporate Social Responsibility: 9. A responsibility statement of the Corporate Social Sl. Name of Award / Rating / Theme of the Award* Responsibility Committee that the implementation No Certification and monitoring of Corporate Social Responsibility 1 Best CSR Report, ET CSR Corporate Social Policy, is in compliance with Corporate Social Awards, 2019 Responsibility Report Responsibility objectives and Policy of the company. 2 Award for Project in Corporate Social The implementation and monitoring of Corporate Access to Clean Energy, responsibility: Access Social Responsibility programmes by Dalmia Bharat ICC Social Impact Awards, to Clean Energy Limited (formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited), Indian Chambers of the Company is in compliance with the Corporate Commerce, 2019 Social Responsibility objectives and policy of the 1. The Composition of the Corporate Social company. Responsibility Committee. Puneet Yadu Dalmia V. S. Jain Managing Director Chairman Place: New Delhi DIN 00022633 CSR Committee Date: May 09, 2019 DIN 00253196 112 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Annexure 3A H in lakh S. CSR project or activity Sector in which the project is Projects or programs Amount Amount spent on Cumulative Amount No identified covered (1) Local area or other outlay the projects or expenditure spent: Direct (budget) programs upto the or through (2) Specify the State and district project or Subheads: reporting implementing where projects or Programs was program (1)Direct period agency undertaken wise expenditure on projects or programs. (2)Overheads 1 Soil and Water Schedule VII / item No IV 1. The project was implemented in Conservation (Check Ensuring environmental local area Dams, Drip Irrigation, sustainability, ecological balance, 2. Area of programme: Tamil Nadu, Village Ponds, Farm protection of flora and fauna, District Ariyalur and Tiruchirapalli; Ponds, Ring Wells, animal welfare, agroforestry, Andhra Pradesh, District Kadapa; Watershed, Irrigation conservation of natural resources Karnataka, District Belgaum; 75 75 Channels, Organic and maintaining quality of soil, air Assam, District Dimahasao and Implementing Farming) and water Nagaon; Meghalaya, District agency Jaintia Hills, District Jhunjhunu; 95 Dalmia Bharat Rajasthan; Sundargarh and Foundation Cuttack District in Odisha; and Midnapore district, West Bengal 2 Bharat ke Veer Schedule VII / item No VI Measures for the benefit of armed 20 20 forces veterans, war widows and their dependents Total 95 95 95 Annual Report 2018-19 | 113 Annexure 4 Form No. AOC-2 (Pursuant to clause (h) of sub-section (3) of section 134 of the Act and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014) Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts/arrangements entered into by the company with related parties referred to in sub-section (1) of section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arms’ length transactions under third proviso thereto 1. Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis None 2. Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis 1 (a) Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited Wholly owned Subsidiary Company (b) Nature of contracts/ arrangements/ transactions Receipt of Corporate Service charges (c) Duration of the contracts / arrangements/ transactions 10 years effective 1-4-2010 entered by erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited (d) Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or Allocation of all expenses for availing corporate office services transactions including the value, if any: with mark up of 15% on basis of value added. Direct expenses on project supervision costs on time spent besides direct costs at actuals. Value: H149.61 crores for the financial year ended March 31, 2019. (e) Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any: Approved by Audit Committee /Board of erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited on November 15, 2010 and February 3, 2016 and by Audit Committee and the Board of the Company on October 30, 2018. (f) Amount paid as advances, if any: NIL Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Place: New Delhi Managing Director Managing Director Date: May 09, 2019 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 114 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Annexure 5 FORM NO MR 3 SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT For the Financial Year Ended 31.03.2019 (Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014) To The Members, Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly Known as Odisha Cement Limited) I have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance of Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and the applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good External Commercial Borrowings; corporate practices by Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly (v) The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed Known as Odisha Cement Limited) (herein after called the under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, Company). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 1992 (‘SEBI Act’) :provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/ statutory compliances and expressing my opinion a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India thereon. (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; Based on my verification of the Dalmia Bharat Limited’s (Formerly Known as Odisha Cement Limited’s) books, b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; records maintained by the Company and also the information c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, I 2018; hereby report that in my opinion, the company has, during the audit period covering the financial year ended on 31.03.2019 d) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue complied with the statutory provisions listed here under and and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; also that the Company has proper Board – processes and (Not Applicable as the Company has not issued and compliance-mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner listed any debt securities during the financial year and subject to the reporting made hereinafter: under review) I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India returns filed and other records maintained by Dalmia Bharat (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Limited (Formerly Known as Odisha Cement Limited) (“The Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and Company”) for the financial year ended 31.03.2019 according dealing with client; (Not Applicable as the Company to the provisions of: is not registered as Registrar to an issue and Share Transfer Agent during the financial year under review) (i) The Companies Act, 2013 (The Act) and the rules made thereunder; f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009; (Not Applicable (ii) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) as there was no reportable event during the period and the rules made there under; under review) and (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Byeg) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buy laws framed there under; Back of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not Applicable (iv) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules as there was no reportable event during the period and regulations made there under to the extent of Foreign under review) Annual Report 2018-19 | 115 h) The Securities and Exchange Board of India shorter notice for which the mandatory provisions as per the (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Act and Secretarial Standards as applicable as on date were Regulations, 2015; adhered to. All decisions were passed unanimously. i) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based I further report that there are adequate systems and processes Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014; in the Company commensurate with the size and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliances with j) Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines. and listing of non-convertible and Redeemable Preference Shares) Regulation, 2013; I further report that during the audit period (vi) And other applicable laws like Factories Act, 1948, (A) The Company has: Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, Minimum Wages 1. Implemented the Scheme of Arrangement and Act, 1948, The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972, Workmen Amalgamation involving Odisha Cement Limited (the Compensation Act, 1923 etc. Company), OCL India Limited, Dalmia Cement East Limited, Shri Rangam Securities & Holdings Limited We have also examined compliance with the applicable and Dalmia Bharat Cement Holdings Limited; and their clauses of the following: respective shareholders and creditors; (1) Secretarial Standards with regards to Meeting of 2. Implemented the Scheme of Arrangement and Board of Directors (SS-1) and General Meetings (SSAmalgamation involving Odisha Cement Limited (the 2) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of Company), Dalmia Bharat Limited and Dalmia Cement India. (Bharat) Limited and their respective shareholders and (2) Listing Agreement entered into by the Company creditors; with Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock 3. Listed its shares at the Bombay Stock Exchange and Exchange. National Stock Exchange consequent to implementation During the period under review the Company has complied of scheme of Amalgamation: with the provisions of the Act, rules, regulations, guidelines, 4. Appointed Sri. Jai Hari Dalmia, Sri. Yadu Hari Dalmia, standards etc. mentioned above; however few of the statutory Sri. Gautam Dalmia, Sri. Puneet Yadu Dalmia, forms were filed after 30 days but before 300 days with Sri. Dharmendar Nath Davar and Sri. Jayesh Doshi as additional fees. Directors of the Company; I further report that: 5. Appointed Sri. P.K.Khaitan, Sri. N. Goplalaswamy, Sri. V.S. The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted Jain as Independent Directors and Smt. Sudha Pillai as with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Woman Independent Director of the Company; Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during 6. Appointed Sri. Gautam Dalmia and Sri. Puneet Yadu the period under review were carried out in compliance with Dalmia as Managing Directors of the Company; the provisions of the Act. 7. Appointed Sri. Jayesh Doshi as Whole Time Director and I further report and certify, based on the certificate(s) provided Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Dr. Sanjeev by individual Directors, that none of the Directors on the Board Gemawat as Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company have been barred or disqualified from being of the Company; appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the 8. Accepted the resignation of Sri. Amandeep, Sri. Ashwini Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Kumar Dalmia and Sri. Ganesh Wamanrao Jirkuntwar as Affairs or any such statutory authority. Directors of the Company; Adequate Notice is given to all Directors to schedule the Board 9. Issued and allotted 2,31,000 equity shares of H2/each meetings and Committee meetings, Agenda and detailed during the year under the Company’s DBL ESOP Scheme, notes on Agenda were sent at least seven days in advance and 2018; and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and (B) Certain Mutual Fund Units valued at H344.07 crores as for meaningful participation at the meeting. There have been on December 31, 2018 have been unauthorizedly and one Board meeting and two Committee meetings called at a fraudulently moved from the demat accounts of OCL India 116 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Limited and Dalmia Cement East Limited, erstwhile subsidiaries of Dalmia Cements (Bharat) Limited (“DCBL”), subsidiary of the Company. DCBL has lodged complaints with Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) and Economic Offence Wing, Delhi (“EOW”) against the said unauthorised and illegal transfers. EOW had also directed ISSL, NSDL and other parties not to deal with the Mutual Fund Units in any manner whatsoever till further orders. R.Venkatasubramanian Place: New Delhi Practising Company Secretary Date: 09.05.2019 ACS No. 3673; CP No. 3893 This report is to be read with my letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure–A and forms an integral part of this report Annual Report 2018-19 | 117 ANNEXURE – A To The Members Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly Known as Odisha Cement Limited) My report of even date is to be read along with this letter: 1. Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit. 2. I have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the processes and practices, I followed, provide a reasonable basis for my opinion. 3. I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and book of accounts of the Company. 4. Where ever required, I have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events etc. 5. The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of management. My examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis. 6. The Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the company. R.Venkatasubramanian Place: New Delhi Practising Company Secretary Date: 09.05.2019 ACS No. 3673; CP No. 3893 118 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Report on Corporate Governance (I) COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON (II) BOARD OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (a) Size and Composition of the Board Corporate Governance is all about the role and relationship We believe that our Board needs to have an appropriate between a Company and its stakeholders to maximize the mix of Executive, Non-Executive and Independent Directors value ethically and on a sustainable basis. to maintain its Independence, and separate its functions of Governance and Management. Our Board comprises The company’s philosophy on corporate governance is to 10 Directors out of which 70% are the Non-Executive and conduct business in a fair, transparent and ethical manner Independent Directors and 30% are the Executive Directors. and enhancing stakeholder value. 40% of the total strength of the Board comprise Independent We believe that our company shall go beyond adherence to Directors including one Independent Woman Director. The regulatory framework. Our corporate structure, business, Chairman of the Board is a Non-Executive Director and is not operations and disclosure practices have been strictly aligned related to the Managing Director or Chief Executive Officer as to our Corporate Governance Philosophy. Transparency, per the term “relative” defined under the Companies Act, 2013. accountability, fairness and intensive communication with stakeholders are integral to our functioning. We believe in system driven performance and performance oriented systems. We accord highest priority to these systems and protect the interests of all our shareholders, particularly the minority shareholders. We have tried to blend growth and efficiency with governance and ethics. Our Board of Directors, guided by the mission statement, formulate strategies and policies having focus on optimising value for the stakeholders like consumers, shareholders and the society at large. This chapter along with the chapter on Management Discussion and Analysis reports complies with SEBI (LODR) Regulations. Non-Executive and Independent Directors 40% Non-Executive Directors 30% Executive Directors 30% Openness and Transparency Total Board Size and Composition 100% All the Independent Directors gave declaration(s) that they Risk CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT Legal meet the criteria of independence as prescribed in SEBI LODR Management Compliance Regulations and the Companies Act, 2013. Based on the said DALMIA declaration(s), the Board of Director are of the opinion that the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions specified in SEBI LODR Regulations and the Companies Act, 2013 and are Fairness and independent of the management. None of the Independent Excellence Directors has resigned from the Board during the financial year 2018-19. The Composition of the Board and other Directorships held as on March 31, 2019 are provided in below Table 1. Annual Report 2018-19 | 119 Table 1: The Composition of the Board and other Directorships held as on March 31, 2019 Name of the Directors Category of Name of the Listed No. of outside No. of outside Committee Directorship in other Companies Directorship(s) position(s) held (2)(3) Listed in Public Limited Membership Chairpersonship Companies (1) (3) Non-Executive and Independent Director Mr. Pradip Kumar Khaitan CESC Limited (Chairman) Dhunseri Ventures Limited Firstsource Solutions Limited Electrosteel Castings Limited 8 3 2 Graphite India Limited Emami Limited India Glycols Limited Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy Poddar Pigments Limited 4 1 3 Dalmia Refractories Limited Mr. Virendra Singh Jain Apl Apollo Tubes Limited 2 0 0 Mrs. Sudha Pillai Jubilant Life Sciences Limited International Travel House Limited 7 6 1 Amber Enterprises India Limited Non-Executive Director Mr. Dharmendar Nath Davar RSWM Limited Maral Overseas Limited HEG Limited 8 4 3 Titagarh Wagons Limited Sandhar Technologies Limited Mr. Jai Hari Dalmia (4) Dalmia Bharat Sugar and 5 1 0 (Promoter) Industries Limited Alirox Abrasives Limited Mr. Yadu Hari Dalmia (4) Nil 1 1 0 (Promoter) Executive Director Mr. Gautam Dalmia Dalmia Bharat Sugar and 5 1 0 (Managing Director) (4) Industries Limited Indian Energy Exchange Limited Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia SRF Limited 2 0 0 (Managing Director) (4) Mr. Jayesh Doshi (Whole Nil 3 0 0 Time Director & CFO) Non-Executive and Independent Directors, Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors 1. Excluding directorships in Private Limited Companies, Foreign Companies and Companies under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013; 2. As required by Regulation 26 of the Listing Regulations, the disclosure includes membership / chairpersonship of the audit committee and stakeholder’s relationship committee in Indian public companies (listed and unlisted); 3. None of the Directors (i) hold membership in more than ten public limited companies and (ii) is a member of more than ten committees or chairperson of more than five committees across all the public companies in which he/she is a Director (iii) hold directorship in more than eight listed companies and serve as an independent director in more than seven listed companies; 4. Mr. Jai Hari Dalmia and Mr. Yadu Hari Dalmia are brothers. Mr. Gautam Dalmia is son of Mr. Jai Hari Dalmia and Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia is son of Mr. Yadu Hari Dalmia. None of the other Directors are related to any other Director on the Board. 120 | Dalmia Bharat Limited During the year under review, Mr. Ganesh Jirkuntwar, and Secretary, the Secretarial Auditor of the Company, is attached Mr. Amandeep have resigned from Directorship with effect and formed part of this report. from October 15, 2018 and Mr. Ashwini Kumar Dalmia has (b) Board Meetings resigned from their Directorship with effect from October 16, The Board meetings are generally held at the corporate office 2018. All of these three directors are non-executive and nonof the Company. The Board usually meets at least once in a independent directors. quarter and the Board Meeting is requisitioned whenever it is Pursuant to implementation of the Schemes and in terms required in between the quarterly meetings. of the Companies Act, 2013, Securities and Exchange Board During the financial year 2018-19, the Board of Directors met of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) six times on May 15, 2018, August 09, 2018, October 15, 2018, Regulations, 2015 (“Securities and Exchange Board of India October 30, 2018, February 07, 2019 and March 18, 2019. Out LODR Regulations”), the Board was reconstituted and all the of which one meeting which was held on October 30, 2018 Directors were appointed as an Additional Director on October was adjourned and concluded on October 31, 2018. 15, 2018 and were regularized by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on December As per the Articles of the Company and the Companies Act the 31, 2018 in compliance with the Companies Act, 2013 and required quorum for every meeting of the Board of Directors SEBI LODR Regulations. is one third of its total strength or two Directors, whichever is higher, including at least one Independent Director. The None of the Directors have been debarred or disqualified from requisite quorum was present in the said meetings. being appointed or continuing as Director of companies by Securities and Exchange Board of India/Ministry of Corporate The details of the attendance of Directors at the Board Affairs or any such statutory authority. A certificate in this Meetings and Annual General Meeting and Shares held are regard by Mr. R. Venkatasubramanian, Practicing Company provided in below Table 2. Table 2: Attendance at the Board Meetings and Annual General Meeting and number of shares held during financial year 2018-19 Name of the Director Annual Number of Board Meetings Held Attended % of Number General 1 2 3 4 5 6 during attendance of shares Meeting (2) (2) (3) tenure held in the Company Mr. Pradip Kumar Khaitan X --X 4 3 75% Nil Mr. Nagarajan --X 4 3 75% Nil Gopalaswamy Mr. Virendra Singh Jain X --4 4 100% Nil Mrs. Sudha Pillai X --4 4 100% Nil Mr. Dharmendar Nath X --X 4 3 75% 1,500 Davar Mr. Jai Hari Dalmia X --X X 4 2 50% 32,70,020 Mr. Yadu Hari Dalmia X --X X 4 2 50% Nil Mr. Gautam Dalmia X --4 4 100% 3,04,524 Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia X --4 4 100% Nil Mr. Jayesh Doshi X --4 4 100% 49,500 -Attended in person, XLeave of Absence 1. All above Directors were appointed as an Additional Director with effect from October 15, 2018 and were regularized in the Annual General Meeting held on December 31, 2018 2. In view of the implementation of the Scheme(s) of Arrangement and Amalgamation and reconstitution of the Board of Directors, the meetings held prior to October 15, 2018 were attended by the erstwhile Directors 3. Board Meeting held on October 30, 2018 was adjourned and concluded on October 31, 2018. In Compliance with the Secretarial Standards, the drafts The meeting was conducted in an informal and flexible minutes of the Board and Committee meetings were circulated manner to enable the Independent Directors to, inter-alia, to the Directors for their comments within a period of 15 days discuss matters pertaining to review of performance of Nonfrom the date of respective meeting(s) and finalized within a Independent Directors and the Board as a whole, review period of 30 days from the date of the respective meeting(s). the performance of the Chairman of the Company (taking (c) Meeting of Independent Directors and familiarization into account the views of the Executive and Non-Executive programmes Directors), assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow The Independent Directors of the Company met once during of information between the Company’s Management and the financial year on February 07, 2019 without the presence the Board that is necessary for the Board to effectively and of Non-Independent Director(s) and members of the reasonably perform their duties. management. Annual Report 2018-19 | 121 The Directors immediately upon appointment are familiarized attending the Board of Directors meetings and the Committee inter-alia with the Company, nature of industry in which the meetings, profit related commission and reimbursement of Company operates, business model of the Company, Code of expenses incurred by them for undertaking their duties as Conduct for the Directors, reports and policies of the Company Directors of the Company. as part of their induction programme. Every Director is also The sitting fees is paid to the Non-Executive Directors within familiarized with the expectation of the Board from him, the the limits prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 and as Board level committees in which he is expected to serve and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. The same its tasks, the fiduciary duties that come with such appointment is decided keeping in view the practice within the Group and alongwith accompanying liabilities and the actions that he market practice and is same for all the Directors. should not do while functioning as such in the Company The commission is paid to the Non-Executive Directors within The Directors are also regularly familiarized by way of periodic the limits prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 and as presentations at the Board and Committee meetings interapproved by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting alia with respect to updates on approved projects, business held on December 31, 2018, i.e., not exceeding 1% of the net opportunities and proposed projects, updates on Enterprise profits of the Company. The commission to the Non-Executive Risk Management, demand supply scenario, benchmarking Directors varies in view inter-alia of the responsibility held as and statutory and regulatory changes. Detailed presentations a Chairman / member of various Board Committees of the on the Company’s subsidiaries, associates, business Company, overall participation and contribution in the decision segments are made. The details of such familiarisation making process of the Company, objectivity and constructive programme for the financial year 2018-19 are disclosed exercise of duties and devotion of time and attention. The at www.dalmiacement.com in terms of the SEBI LODR commission payable is decided by the Board of Directors of Regulations. the Company. (d) Remuneration and ESOPs paid to Directors The details of sitting fees and commission paid to the NonThe Board of Directors comprises of seven non-executive Executive Directors and remuneration paid to Executive directors and three executive directors. Directors during the financial year 2018-19 are provided in The Non-Executive Directors are entitled to sitting fees for below Table 3. Table 3: Remuneration detswails (H in Crore) S. Name of Director Sitting fees Commission Salary and Retirement Total No perquisites benefits 1 Mr. Pradip Kumar Khaitan 0.05 0.40 0.45 2 Mr. Jai Hari Dalmia 0.02 0.02 3 Mr. Yadu Hari Dalmia 0.02 0.02 4 Mr. Gautam Dalmia Nil 5.60 0.64 6.24 5 Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia Nil 6.94 0.84 7.78 6 Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy 0.06 0.10 0.16 7 Mr. Virendra Singh Jain 0.07 0.20 0.27 8 Mrs. Sudha Pillai 0.05 0.10 0.15 9 Mr. Dharmendar Nath Davar 0.02 0.20 0.22 10 Mr. Jayesh Doshi Nil 6.00 0.13 6.13 122 | Dalmia Bharat Limited The retirement benefits to the Executive Directors comprise 1. 90,000 options (as against 45,000 outstanding options of the Company’s contribution to provident fund and as per DBEL ESOP 2011 granted on January 29, 2015) superannuation fund. The payment of retirement benefits at a price of H108.615 per share (as against H217.23 per is made by the respective fund(s). In addition to the above share as per DBEL ESOP 2011) representing discount the Company also contributes, on actuarial valuation basis, of 50% on the price determined on the basis of 30 days amounts to the gratuity fund towards gratuity of its employees volume weighted average price prior to the date of grant including for the Executive Directors. accruing over a period of three years and exercisable in the following manner: There is no other pecuniary relationship/transaction of the Non-Executive Directors vis a vis the Company. Year of vesting 2019 2020 2021 No. of ESOPs to be vested 24000 30000 36000 As per the terms of the appointment of Managing Director(s), the appointment may be terminated by either party by giving Out of the above stock options, Mr. Jayesh Doshi has three months’ notice and in the case of Whole-time Director exercised 24,000 stock options during the financial year and Chief Financial Officer by giving six months’ notice. There 2018-19. is no provision for severance fee in case of termination. 2. 27,000 options (as against 13,500 outstanding options as In terms of the Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation, per DBEL ESOP 2011 granted on February 03, 2016) at a the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted the DBEL price of H191.765 per share (as against H383.53 per share ESOP Scheme 2011 of erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited with as per DBEL ESOP 2011) representing discount of 50% the name “DBL ESOP Scheme 2018” with the same terms and on the price determined on the basis of 30 days volume conditions. In terms of the Scheme, in lieu of every 1 (one) weighted average price prior to the date of grant accruing stock option under DBEL ESOP Scheme 2011 (whether vested over a period of remaining 4 years and exercisable in the or unvested) the Company has granted 2 (Two) new stock following manner: options (“New Options”) under the DBEL ESOP Scheme 2018 Year of vesting 2019 2020 2021 2022 to the eligible employees and the existing stock options under No. of ESOPS to 4500 6000 7500 9000 the DBEL ESOP Scheme 2011 have been cancelled. The New be vested Options entitles the eligible employees to purchase 1 (one) equity share of the Company for each New Option. Out of the above stock options, Mr. Jayesh Doshi has exercised 4,500 stock options during the financial year Accordingly, the Company has granted 22,72,000 ESOPs 2018-19. under DBL ESOP 2018 as against balance 11,36,000 ESOPs pending to be exercised/vested under DBEL ESOP 2011 and (e) Code of Conduct for the Directors and Senior the existing 11,36,000 ESOPs pending to be exercised/vested Management of the Company under the DBEL ESOP Scheme 2011 have been cancelled. The The Company’s Board has laid down a code of conduct for New Options entitled the eligible employees to purchase 1 all the Board members and designated senior management (one) equity share of the Company for each New Option. of the Company. The Code of Conduct includes the Code of Conduct for Independent Directors and provides in detail BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited the guidelines of professional conduct, role and functions had issued in-principal approval for futher listing of 22,72,000 and duties of Independent Directors. The code of conduct is equity shares of H2/each on allotment of ESOPs. available on the website of the Company www.dalmiacement. During the year, 2,31,000 stock options were vested into com. All Board members and senior management personnel eligible employees against which 2,31,000 equity shares of have affirmed compliance with the Code of Conduct. A H2/each were allotted upon exercise of stock options by the declaration signed by the Chief Executive Officer to this effect employees. is enclosed at the end of this report. Mr. Jayesh Doshi, Whole-time Director and Chief Financial (f) CEO/ CFO certification Officer, has been granted 1,17,000 ESOPs as per details given The CEO and CFO certification of the financial statements for hereunder. Except Mr. Jayesh Doshi, no other Director of the the financial year 2018-19 is enclosed at the end of the report. Company has been granted any stock options. Annual Report 2018-19 | 123 (g) Board Skill Matrix: The matrix setting out the skills / expertise/competence of the Board of Directors is given below: S. Experience / Expertise / Attribute Comments No 1 Leadership Should be a visionary with strategic goal for the Company, help the Company to identify possible road maps, inspire and motivate the strategy, approach, processes and other such key deliverables and mentor the leadership team to channelize its energy/efforts in appropriate direction. Should be a thought leader and a role model in good governance and ethical conduct of business, while encouraging the organisation to maximise shareholder value having hands on experience of leading an entity at the highest level. 2 Industry knowledge and experience Should possess domain knowledge in businesses in which the Company participates viz. Cement, Power, Refractory and Management Consultancy and such other areas as appropriate for betterment of Company’s business. 3 Experience and Exposure in policy Should possess ability to develop professional relationship with the Policy makers shaping and industry advocacy and Regulators for contributing to the shaping of Government policies in the areas of Company’s business. 4 Governance including legal Should have commitment, belief and experience in setting corporate governance compliance practices to support the Company’s legal compliance systems and governance policies/practices. 5 Expertise/ Experience in Finance & Should be able to understand financial policies, accounting statements and Accounts / Audit / Risk Management disclosure practices and contribute to the financial/risk management policies/ areas practices of the Company. (III) COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD OF 15, 2018 except the Group Governance Committee which was DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY constituted on October 30, 2018. The composition, constitution and functioning of these Committees meets the requirements (a) Composition of Committees, their meetings and of the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI LODR Regulations. The attendance Chairman and members of these Committees are selected The Board of Directors of the Company has constituted six by the Board based on the category of Director(s) and their (6) Board level Committees as on March 31, 2019, namely expertise, knowledge and experience. The role and terms of Audit Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, reference of these Committees is approved by the Board of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee, Corporate Social Directors of the Company. The Company Secretary acts as Responsibility Committee, Risk Management Committee and Secretary to these Committees. Below table show the Board Group Governance Committee. All these Committees have and Committee Position: been constituted by the Board at its meeting held on October Board and Committee Composition Name of the Director Board Audit Nomination & Corporate Risk Stakeholders Group Committee Remuneration Social Management Relationship Governance Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Mr. Pradip Kumar Khaitan ---Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy* -Mr. Virendra Singh Jain** Mrs. Sudha Pillai ---Mr. Dharmendar Nath Davar ------Mr. Jai Hari Dalmia ------Mr. Yadu Hari Dalmia ----Mr. Gautam Dalmia ---Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia ------Mr. Jayesh Doshi ------Total Number of Members 10 4 4 4 3 4 3 Chairperson Member *Mr. Nagarjan Gopalswamy acted as Chairman of the Audit committee from October 15, 2018 till February 07, 2019. **Mr. Virendra Singh Jain acting as Chairman of the Audit committee since February 07, 2019. 124 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Audit Committee The Company has constituted Audit Committee on October 15, 2018 and the Audit Committee met three times during the year ended March 31, 2019. The meetings were held on October 30, 2018, February 07, 2019 and March 18, 2019. The attendance details of the Audit Committee meetings are as follows: Audit Committee Meeting Name of the member Committee Meeting Number Held during Attended % of 1 2 3 tenure attendance Mr. Virendra Singh Jain 3 3 100% Mr. Pradip Kumar Khaitan 3 3 100% Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy 3 3 100% Mrs. Sudha Pillai -2 2 100% Attended in person The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors comprises of • Reviewing performance of statutory and internal qualified and independent members of the Board, who have auditors, adequacy of the internal control systems, risk expertise, knowledge and experience in the field of accounting management systems and internal audit function. and financial management and have held or hold senior • Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by positions in other reputed organizations. the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected The role, powers and terms of reference of the Audit fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems Committee covers all the areas prescribed under Section of a material nature and reporting the matter to the Board. 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 18(3) of • Review the functioning of the Whistle Blower mechanism. SEBI LODR Regulations besides other terms as referred by the Board of Directors from time to time. The role of Audit • Approval of appointment of Chief Financial officer. Committee broadly includes the following: The representatives of Statutory Auditors, Internal Auditors, • Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and executives from finance and secretarial department attend terms of appointment of Auditors of the Company and the Audit Committee meetings. The cost Auditors attend the payment for any other services rendered by them, review Audit Committee meetings in which the Cost Audit Report and monitor their independence and performance, and is discussed and approved. All the recommendations of the effectiveness of audit process. Audit Committee during the financial year 2018-19 were accepted by the Board of Directors. • Oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process, reviewing the quarterly financial statements and the The member of the Audit Committee, i.e., Mr. Nagarajan annual financial statements and auditor’s report thereon Gopalaswamy, was present at the Annual General Meeting of before submission to the Board for approval and to ensure the Company held on December 31, 2018. that the financial statements are correct, sufficient and Nomination and Remuneration Committee. credible. The Company has constituted Nomination and Remuneration • Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions Committee on October 15, 2018 and the Committee met two of the Company with related parties. times during the year under review on October 15, 2018 and February 07, 2019. The attendance details of the Nomination • Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments. & Remuneration Committee meetings are as follows: Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meeting Name of the member Committee Meeting Number Held during Attended % of attendance 1 2 tenure Mr. Virendra Singh Jain 2 2 100% Mr. Pradip Kumar Khaitan X 2 1 50% Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy X 2 1 50% Mrs. Sudha Pillai 2 2 100% Attended in person XLeave of absence Annual Report 2018-19 | 125 The role, powers and terms of reference of the Nomination The Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration and Remuneration Committee covers all the areas prescribed Committee, i.e., Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy, was present under Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 19(4) of SEBI LODR Regulations besides other terms as December 31, 2018. referred by the Board of Directors from time to time. The role Performance evaluation criteria – of Nomination and Remuneration Committee broadly includes the following: The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, as part of the Nomination and Remuneration Policy, has formulated • Formulate criteria for determining qualifications, age, criteria and specified the manner of effective evaluation of extension of term, positive attributes and independence performance of the Board, its committees and individual of a Director and recommend to the Board the Nomination directors to be carried out either by the Board, by the and Remuneration Policy. Committee or by an independent external agency and effective • Devise a Board diversity policy. evaluation of performance of key managerial personnel and senior management; and reviews its implementation and • Formulate criteria for performance evaluation of Directors. compliance. • Identify qualified persons and recommend to the Board During the financial year 2018-19, the performance evaluation of Directors appointment, remuneration and removal of of the Board and Committees of the Board was carried out by Directors and senior management. the Board. Further, the performance evaluation of Independent • Review Human Resource policies and succession Directors was done by the entire Board excluding the Directors planning. being evaluated. • Administer, monitor and formulate detailed terms and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee conditions of the Employees Stock Option Scheme. The Company has constituted Stakeholders’ Relationship The head of the Human Resource department attends the Committee on October 15, 2018 and the Committee met 2 Nomination and Remuneration Committee meetings. All the times during the year ended March 31, 2019. The meetings recommendations of the Nomination and Remuneration were held on October 30, 2018 and February 07, 2019. Committee during the financial year 2018-19 were accepted The attendance details of the Stakeholders’ Relationship by the Board of Directors. Committee meetings are as follows: Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee Meeting Name of the member Committee Meeting Number Held during Attended % of attendance 1 2 tenure Mr. Virendra Singh Jain 2 2 100% Mr. Yadu Hari Dalmia X 2 1 50% Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy 2 2 100% Mr. Gautam Dalmia 2 2 100% Attended in person XLeave of absence The role, powers and terms of reference of the Stakeholders’ • Review measures for reducing quantum of unclaimed Relationship Committee covers all the areas prescribed under dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants/ Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 20(4) annual reports/statutory notices by shareholders. of SEBI LODR Regulations besides other terms as referred Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy, member of the Stakeholders’ by the Board of Directors from time to time. The role of Relationship Committee was present at the Annual General Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee broadly includes the Meeting of the Company held on December 31, 2018. following: Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat, the Company Secretary, is the • Resolve grievances of security holders. compliance officer of the Company and responsible for • Review measures taken for effective exercise of voting ensuring compliance with the requirements of Securities rights by shareholders. Laws. • Review adherence to service standards adopted in Shareholders complaints: respect of services being rendered by the Registrar and During the financial year 2018-19, the Company received 99 Share Transfer Agent. complaints from the shareholders. Details of shareholders complaints are given below in Table 4: 126 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Table 4: Shareholders complaints Nature of Complaint Pending as on Received during Resolved Pending as on April 01, 2018 the year satisfactorily March 31, 2019 during the year Transfer / Transmission / Duplicate 0 32 32 0 Non-receipt of Dividend/Interest/Redemption 0 22 21 1 Warrants Non-receipt of securities/electronic credits 0 30 30 0 Non-receipt of Annual Report 0 12 12 0 Complaints received from: Securities and Exchange Board of India 0 3 2 1 Stock Exchanges Registrar of Companies/ Department of Company Affairs Others 0 0 0 0 Total 0 99 97 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The Company has constituted Corporate Social Responsibility Committee on October 15, 2018 and the Committee met three times during the year ended March 31, 2019. The meetings were held on October 15, 2018, October 30, 2018 and February 07, 2019. The attendance details of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee meetings are as follows: Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Meeting Name of the member Committee Meeting Number Held during Attended % of 1 2 3 tenure attendance Mr. Virendra Singh Jain 3 3 100% Mr. Yadu Hari Dalmia X X 3 1 33.33% Mr. Gautam Dalmia 3 3 100% Mrs. Sudha Pillai 2 2 100% Attended in person XLeave of absence The role, powers and terms of reference of the Corporate Social under Regulation 21 of SEBI LODR Regulations besides other Responsibility Committee covers all the areas prescribed terms as referred by the Board of Directors from time to time. under Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 besides other The role of Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee broadly terms as referred by the Board of Directors from time to time. includes: The role of Corporate Social Responsibility Committee broadly • Monitor and review the risk management plan including includes the following: cyber security. • Formulate and recommend Corporate Social • Review the process followed by the Company for risk Responsibility Policy to the Board. identification and mitigation • Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on • Review the risks identified by the Company, their activities to be undertaken by the Companies in the areas probability and impact, corresponding mitigation plan or subject, specified on Schedule VII of the Companies and status thereof. Act, 2013. Group Governance Committee • Monitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy from In view of large number of unlisted subsidiaries of the Company, time to time. the Board of Directors has on October 30, 2018 constituted Risk Management Committee the Group Governance Committee to monitor the governance The Company has constituted the Risk Management of such subsidiaries in accordance with SEBI circular number Committee on October 15, 2018. The Risk Management SEBI/HO/ CFD/CMD/CIR/P/2018/79 dated May 10, 2018. No Committee did not met during the year ended March 31, 2019. meeting of the Group Governance Committee was held during the year ended March 31, 2019. The role, powers and terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee covers all the areas prescribed Annual Report 2018-19 | 127 (IV) GENERAL BODY MEETINGS Also, the representatives of the Statutory Auditors and Secretarial Auditors attend the AGMs to respond to the queries (a) Annual General Meetings (“AGM”) of shareholders, if any, with respect to audit observation / The Annual General Meetings (“AGM”) are held at the matter of emphasis or otherwise. registered office of the Company. The representatives of the Registrar and Share Transfer The Chairman/Member of the Audit Committee, Nomination Agent checks and verifies the attendance of members and and Remuneration Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Scrutinizer scrutinizes the voting (e-voting and physical) and Committee attend the AGMs to respond to the queries of the provide report thereon. shareholders. Table 5: Details of last three AGMs AGM Date Time Location 5th AGM December 31, 2018 10.30a.m. Dalmiapuram 621651, Lalgudi Taluk, District Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu 4th AGM September 29, 2017 11.00 a.m. Dalmiapuram 621651, Lalgudi Taluk, District Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu 3rd AGM August 19, 2016 10.00 a.m. At/Po/Ps Rajgangpur 770017, District Sundergarh, Odisha (b) Special Resolutions Special Resolutions passed at the 5th • Appointment of Mr. Gautam Dalmia, as a Managing Director of the Company for AGM held on December 31, 2018 a period of five years with effect from October 30, 2018. • Appointment of Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia, as a Managing Director of the Company for a period of five years with effect from October 30, 2018. • Appointment of Mr. Jayesh Doshi, as a Whole time Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company for a period of three years with effect from October 30, 2018. • Appointment of Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy, as Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company for a period of five years with effect from October 15, 2018. • Appointment of Mr. Pradip Kumar Khaitan, as Non-Executive Independent Director of the Company for a period of five years with effect from October 15, 2018. • Appointment of Mr. Dharmendar Nath Davar, as a Non-Executive Director of the Company, liable to retirement by rotation. • Payment of commission to the Non-Executive Directors, not exceeding 1% (one percent) of net profits of the Company. Special Resolutions passed at the 4th • Change in name of the Company from “Odisha Cement Limited” to “OCL India AGM held on September 29, 2017 Limited” and alteration in the name clause of the Memorandum of Association. • Change in name of the Company from “OCL India Limited” to “Dalmia Bharat Limited” and alteration in the name clause of the Memorandum of Association. • Alteration in the objects clause of the Memorandum of Association. Special Resolution passed at the 3 rd • No Special Resolution was proposed and passed at 3rd AGM. AGM held on August 19, 2016 128 | Dalmia Bharat Limited (c) Postal Ballot (VI) GENERAL SHAREHOLDERS All the Special Resolutions were passed at the AGM during INFORMATION the financial year 2018-19. The Company had provided the (a) Annual General Meeting facility to members to vote by electronic means in the manner The Annual General Meeting of the Company is scheduled provided in Section 108 of the Companies Act, 2013. No to be held on August 30, 2019 at 10.30 a.m. at Community Special Resolution was passed through Postal Ballot during Centre Premises, Dalmiapuram -621651, Dist. Tiruchirapalli, the financial year 2018-19. Also, no Special Resolution is Tamil Nadu. proposed to be passed through Postal Ballot. The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the (V) MEANS OF COMMUNICATION Company shall remain closed from Saturday, the 24rd day of Quarterly results August, 2019 to Friday, the 30th day of August, 2019 (both The quarterly unaudited/audited financial results of the days inclusive) for the purpose of Annual General Meeting and Company prepared in the format prescribed by SEBI LODR dividend. are recommended by the Audit Committee and approved (b) Financial year by the Board of Directors. The same are limited reviewed/ The financial year of the Company is from April 01, 2018 to audited by the Statutory Auditors and are submitted to the March 31, 2019. Stock Exchanges, on which the shares of the Company are listed, i.e., BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India (c) Dividend payment date Limited, within a period of 45 days of the close of every quarter The Board of Director has recommended payment of final and within a period of 60 days in case of annual financial dividend of H2 (100%) per equity share of face value of H2/results. The results are disseminated on the Stock Exchanges each. Such dividend shall be paid to those shareholders, whose electronically (through NEAPS / BSE listing centre) within 30 names appear on the Company’s Register of Members as on minutes of the closure of the Board meeting. August 24, 2019. The Dividend payment date is September 02, 2019 and it will be paid within a period of thirty days from the The financial results are normally published in Economic date of declaration by the shareholders at the AGM. Times/Financial Express, i.e, the English language national daily newspaper circulating in the whole or substantially The dividend shall be paid through any of the electronic mode the whole of India and in Dinamani, i.e., the daily newspaper of payment facility as approved by the Reserve Bank of India. published in the language of the region where the registered However, where it is not possible to use electronic mode of office of the Company is situated, i.e., Tamil. payment, ‘payable at par’ dividend warrants shall be issued. The financial results are also posted on the website of the (d) Listing Company, i.e., www.dalmiacement.com. The Equity Shares of the Company are listed on the following Stock Exchanges: Press Release / Presentations The Company also issues the press release on the results (a) Bombay Stock Exchange Limited, immediately after the Board meeting and same is also New Trading Ring, Rotunda Building, disseminated on the Stock Exchanges electronically (through PJ Towers, Dalal Street fort NEAPS / BSE listing centre) and is also posted on the website Mumbai 400001 of the Company, i.e., www.dalmiacement.com. (b) The National Stock Exchange of India Limited, The presentations to investors or to the analysts are posted Exchange Plaza, 5th Floor, Plot No. C/1, G Block, on the website of the Company, i.e., www.dalmiacement.com. Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai – 400051 Disclosures Also, the quarterly Shareholding Pattern, Investors Complaints The Company has made the payment of annual listing fees to Report, Corporate Governance Report, Disclosures as per both the Stock Exchanges. SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) (e) Stock codes Regulations, 2011, SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) BSE Limited : 542216 Regulations, 2015 are also filed electronically on NEAPS and National Stock Exchange of India Limited : DALBHARAT BSE Listing Centre. ISIN (for Dematerialised Shares) : INE00R701025 Annual Report 2018-19 | 129 (f) Market price data and performance comparison The market price data as per quotations of BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited, i.e., high, low and close during each month in the financial year 2018-19 is given below in Table 6. Table 6: High, low and close market price of the shares during financial year 2018-19 at BSE and NSE Month BSE NSE High Low Close High Low Close April, 2018 May, 2018 June, 2018 July, 2018 August, 2018 September, 2018 October, 2018 November, 2018 December, 2018 January, 2019 1134.45 903.00 1035.00 1097.55 860.00 1031.35 February, 2019 1215.00 981.05 1154.05 1219.70 1020.00 1153.20 March, 2019 1218.00 930.10 989.85 1197.00 966.05 989.50 Chart A: Share Performance versus BSE Sensex DBL Share Price on BSE vis a vis BSE Sensex 39000 1500.00 1350.00 38000 1200.00 DBL Closing Share Price on BSE 1050.00 37000 900.00 BSE Sensex 750.00 36000 600.00 450.00 35000 300.00 150.00 34000 0.00 Apr-18 May-18 Jun-18 Jul-18 Aug-18 Sep-18 Oct-18 Nov-18 Dec-18 Jan-19 Feb-19 Mar-19 BSE Sensex DBL Share Price on BSE [Closing] 130 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Chart B: Share Performance versus NIFTY DBL share price on NSE vis a vis S&P CNX Nifty 1500.00 11800 1350.00 1200.00 DBL Closing Share Price on NSE 11500 1050.00 S&P CNX NIFTY 11200 900.00 750.00 10900 600.00 10600 450.00 300.00 10300 150.00 10000 0.000 Apr-18 May-18 Jun-18 Jul-18 Aug-18 Sep-18 Oct-18 Nov-18 Dec-18 Jan-19 Feb-19 Mar-19 NIFTY DBL Share Price on NSE [Closing] (h) Suspension of securities from trading (j) Share Transfer System and dematerialization of shares The trading in the shares of the Company remained suspended and liquidity from January 07, 2019 to January 22, 2019 due to Corporate The Company has provided demat facility to its shareholders Action for reduction of share capital of the Company pursuant with National Securities Depository Limited as well as Central to the Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation. Depository Services Limited. (i) Registrar and Transfer Agent As on March 31, 2019, 97.03% of the equity shares of the The Company has appointed Karvy Fintech Private Limited as Company are in the dematerialised form. The promoters of the Registrar and Transfer Agent. the Company hold their entire shareholding in dematerialised form Karvy Fintech Private Limited Karvy Selenium Tower B, Plot 31-32, The transfer of shares in physical form is processed by the Registrars and Transfer Agents and completed and duly Gachibowli Financial District endorsed share certificates are returned to the shareholders Nanakramguda, Hyderabad – 500 032. within a period of 15 days of receipt of complete documents. All activities in relation to the share transfer facility are A summary of transfer and transmission of shares of the maintained by the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent. A Company and the Reconciliation of Share Capital Audit compliance certificate to this effect is submitted by the Report by Savita Jyoti & Associates, the Practicing Company Company with the Stock Exchanges on a half yearly basis Secretary is presented to the Board at the quarterly Board under signatures of the Compliance Officer of the Company meetings. and the authorized representative of the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent. (k) Distribution of Shareholding Table 7 and 8 list the distribution of the shareholding of the equity shares of the Company by size and by ownership class as on March 31, 2019. Annual Report 2018-19 | 131 Table 7: Distribution of shareholding by size S l . No. of Equity Shares held No. of % of Shareholders No. of Shares held % of Shareholding no. (Range) Shareholders 1 1 – 500 34104 94.22 18173586 4.71 2 501 – 1000 1035 2.86 7195986 1.86 3 1001 – 2000 521 1.44 7303508 1.89 4 2001 3000 155 0.43 3775720 0.98 5 3001 4000 67 0.19 2326778 0.60 6 4001 5000 41 0.11 1848466 0.48 7 5001 10000 97 0.27 6893768 1.79 8 10001 and above 177 0.49 338399294 87.69 Total 36197 100.00 385917106 100.00 Table 8: Distribution of shareholding by ownership Particulars No. of Shareholders % of Shareholders No. of Shares held % of Shareholding Promoters 1 0.00 3270020 1.69 Promoters Bodies Corporate 18 0.05 101435428 52.57 Central/State Governments 3 0.01 137910 0.07 Financial Institutions 2 0.01 1146518 0.59 Mutual Funds 12 0.03 6901346 3.58 Foreign Institutional Investors 2 0.01 579281 0.30 Insurance Companies 1 0.00 17500 0.01 Bodies Corporates 847 2.34 13207547 6.84 NRI/Foreign Nationals 1081 2.99 927757 0.48 Individuals/Others 34230 94.56 65335246 33.87 Total 36197 100 192958553 100 (l) Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants/Options Nil (m) Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities No hedging activity was undertaken during the year under review. (n) Plant locations The Group has manufacturing plants at thirteen locations in Southern, North Eastern and Eastern regions of India as detailed below in Table 9. Table 9: Plant Locations Plant location State Plant Type Southern Region Dalmiapuram Tamil Nadu Integrated Ariyalur Tamil Nadu Integrated Kadappa Andhra Pradesh Integrated Belgaum Karnataka Integrated Eastern Region Rajgangpur Odisha Integrated Kapilas Odisha Grinding Medinipur West Bengal Grinding Bokaro Jharkhand Grinding Banjari Bihar Integrated North Eastern Region Meghalaya Meghalaya Integrated Lanka Assam Grinding Umrangshu Assam Integrated Morigaon Assam Grinding 132 | Dalmia Bharat Limited (o) Address for correspondence (c) Disclosure in relation to the Sexual Harassment of Dalmia Bharat Limited Women at Work place (Prevention Prohibition & Redressal) (formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Act, 2013 The Company is committed to create a workplace free (1) Shares Department from harassment and discrimination, where co-workers are Dalmiapuram – 621651 respected, and provided an appropriate environment so as to Dist. Tiruchirapalli encourage good performance and conduct. Tamil Nadu The Company has in place Policy against sexual harassment Phone: 04329 235132 of women. During the year no complaint has been received by Fax: 04329 235111 the Company. (2) Company Secretary (d) Whistle Blower Mechanism 7 , 11 and 12 Floor th th th The Company has framed Whistle Blower policy and Vigil Mechanism on October 15, 2018 and same is posted on the Hansalaya Building Company’s web-site www.dalmiacement.com. As per the 15, Barakhamba Road said policy, Audit Committee is accessible to all the persons. New Delhi – 110 001 (e) Disclosure of accounting treatment in preparation of Financial Statements. (VII) DISCLOSURES The Company has followed the guidelines of Ind AS specified (a) Significant related party transactions under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with rule 7 All the related party transactions have been entered into in the of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 and the Companies ordinary course of business and at arms’ length basis. (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2015 as There are no materially significant related party transactions amended/ laid down by the Central Government under the that may have potential conflict with the interests of the provisions of section 129(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 in Company. the preparation of its financial statements. The Company’s Policy on Related Party Transactions is (f) Details of non-compliance posted at www.dalmiacement.com. During last three years, there were no instances of noncompliance and no penalty or strictures were imposed on (b) Policy on Material Subsidiaries the Company by the Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any other The Company’s Policy on Material Subsidiaries is posted at statutory authority, on any matter related to capital markets. www.dalmiacement.com. (g) Compliance As per the said policy, Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited is a Mandatory requirements: material unlisted subsidiary. Mr. Nagarajan Gopalaswamy The Company has complied with all the applicable mandatory and Mrs. Sudha Pillai are Non-Executive and Independent requirements specified in regulation 17 to 27 and clauses Directors of the Company are also the member on the Board (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of regulation 46 of SEBI LODR of Directors of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limted. Regulations. The Audit Committee periodically reviews the financial Discretionary requirements: performance of the subsidiary companies and the annual The discretionary/non-mandatory requirements, as stipulated financial statements are placed at the Audit Committee in Regulation 27(1) read with Part E of Schedule II of the SEBI meetings and Board meetings of the Company. The minutes (LODR) Regulations, other than the half-yearly declaration of of meetings of the Board of Directors of the subsidiary financial performance to shareholders have been adopted by companies are placed at the Board meeting of the Company. the Company. Statement of all significant transactions and arrangements entered into by subsidiaries is brought to the notice of the The Non-Executive Chairman is entitled to maintain a Board of Directors of the Company. Chairman’s office at the Company’s expense and is provided reimbursement of expenses incurred in performance of his duties. Annual Report 2018-19 | 133 The standalone financial statements of the Company are with (i) Total fees for all services paid by the Company unmodified audit opinion. and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the Statutory Auditors and all entities in the network firm The internal auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee. / network entity of which Statutory Auditor is a part: (h) Details of utilization of funds raised through preferential H98.60 lakhs allotment or qualified institutions placement (j) Unclaimed Suspense Account No funds have been raised by the Company through Not applicable. preferential allotment or qualified institutions placement in the last three years 134 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Certificate of Non-Disqualification of Directors (As per clause C of Schedule V of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 read with regulation 34(3) of the said Listing Regulations). To The Members, Dalmia Bharat Limited (formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Dalmiapuram, Tiruchirapalli Distt. Tamil Nadu As required by item 10(i) of Part C of Schedule V of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirement) Regulations, 2015 we certify that none of the Directors on the Board of Dalmia Bharat Limited have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of Companies by the SEBI/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such Statutory Authority. R. Venkatasubramanian Date: 09.05.2019 Practing Company Secretary Place: New Delhi ACS No. 3673; CP No. 3893 Declaration on Code of Conduct To The Board of Directors, Dalmia Bharat Limited (formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Dalmiapuram, Lalgudi, District Tiruchirappalli Tamil Nadu621651 Dear Sirs, I do hereby certify that the all the members of the Board of Directors of the Company and the Senior Management Personnel have affirmed their compliance with the code of conduct laid down by the Board of Directors of the Company in their meeting held on October 15, 2018. This certificate is being given in compliance with the requirements of Regulation 34(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Date: 09.05.2019 Puneet Yadu Dalmia Place: New Delhi Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer Annual Report 2018-19 | 135 Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate Governance To The Members of Dalmia Bharat Limited (formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) I have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Dalmia Bharat Limited (“the Company”) for the year ended 31st March, 2019, as stipulated in Regulations 17-27, clause (b) to (i) of Regulation 46 (2) and paragraphs C, D and E of Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’) pursuant to the Listing Agreement of the Company with Stock exchanges. The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management. My examination was limited to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company. I conducted my examination in accordance with the Guidance Note on Corporate Governance Certificate issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India. In my opinion, and to the best of my information and according to explanations given to me, I certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above-mentioned Listing Regulations. I further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company. The certificate is addressed and provided to the members of the Company solely for the purpose to enable the Company to comply with the requirement of the Listing Regulations, and it should not be used by any other person or for any other purpose. Accordingly, we do not accept or assume any liability or any duty of care for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this certificate is shown or into whose hands it may come without my prior consent in writing. Place: New Delhi R.Venkatasubramanian Date: 09.05.2019 Practising Company Secretary ACS No. 3673; CP No. 3893 136 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Business Responsibility Report We, at Dalmia Bharat Group/Group (i.e., the Company Our goal is to build a great enterprise for our stakeholders, alongwith its subsidiaries/step down subsidiaries), believe coupled with participating in building a great future for our that unleashing the potential of our employees and operations country and the world at large! Our strong commitment can lead to enriched value creation. The process of creating towards nation building has been realized by the pivotal role sustained value involves developing greener cement to that we played in the construction of the strategic Dholadrive the country’s growth, providing value added solutions Sadiya Bridge which is the longest river bridge in India. The translating into robust construction, enriching shareholders construction of this bridge has eased the connectivity of wealth, becoming a people-friendly employer of talent Arunachal Pradesh and Assam and serves as a great example and enhancing community trust. At Dalmia Bharat Group, for our campaign – Dil Jodhe, Desh Jodhe. With a firm belief sustained value creation lies at the core of our business, forming part of our strategies as well as the development in ‘Green is Profitable’ philosophy of our approach to business of our products. We have has longstanding association with has been inclusive and nurturing towards the people and the sustainable development goals coupled with disclosing community that we operate in and strive to create value for issues and initiatives related to economy, environment, and them. social and governance performance. We acknowledge that the path of sustainable development Our corporate vision is “To be a leader in building materials requires commitment, goodwill and passion for which we rely that evokes pride in all stakeholders through customeron everyone’s help to create and sustain value for the Group centricity, innovation, sustainability and our values”. Our vision as well as all our stakeholders. Sustained value creation is is directed towards differentiating our organization from peers rooted in our core values and we have always attempted to and integrating this vision into the business model , which has integrate needs of our people, customers, community and the has helped us add value to our Manufactured capital, Social environment into our operating and governance model. and Relationship capital, Natural capital, Human capital, Intellectual capital and Financial capital. SECTION A: GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY The Company is listed on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited since December 21, 2018. The listing process of the Company got completed during the financial year 2018-19 in two phases. In the first phase, the shares issued to the shareholders of erstwhile OCL India Limited started trading on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited with effect from December 21, 2018 and in the second phase the shares issued to the shareholders of erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited started trading on BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited since January 25, 2019. Accordingly, this Business Responsibility Report describes the initiatives taken by the Group / the Company as a merged entity from environment, social and governance perspective. 1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) L14200TN2013PLC112346 of the Company 2. Name of the Company Dalmia Bharat Limited (formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) 3. Registered address Dalmiapuram-621651, Dist. Triuchirapalli, Tamil Nadu 4. Website www.dalmiacement.com 5. E-mail id investorrelations@dalmiacement.com; corp.sec@dalmiabharat.com 6. Financial Year reported 1st April 2018 to 31st March 2019 7. Sector(s) that the Company is Group Class Subclass Description engaged in (industrial activity 239 2394 23941 & 23942 Manufacture of Clinker & Cement code-wise) 239 2391 23911 & 23912 Manufacture of Refractory 702 7020 70200 Management Consultancy Services 8. List three key products/ (i) Cement services that the Company • Portland Slag Cement (PSC) manufactures/provides (as in • Portland Pozzolana Cement (PPC) balance sheet) (ii) Refractory (iii) Management Services Annual Report 2018-19 | 137 9. Total number of locations where (a) Number of International Locations (Provide details of major 5) business activity is undertaken One refractory plant in China of OCL China Limited, a step down subsidiary of the by the Company Company. (b) Number of National Locations Manufacturing plants at thirteen locations in Southern, North Eastern and Eastern regions of India besides corporate office at New Delhi and three regional offices at Chennai, Guwahati and Kolkata. 10. Markets served by the Company Currently, the Group serves markets in twenty-one states in India and various countries – Local/State/National/ including China, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Bhutan, Italy, Spain, UK, International Germany, Turkey and Russia, among others. SECTION B: FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE COMPANY (H Crore) 1. Paid up Capital (H) 38.55 2. Total Turnover (H) 251.00 (standalone) 9728.00 (consolidated) 3. Total profit after taxes (H) 101.00 (standalone) 249.00 (consolidated) 4. Total Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility 0.95 (standalone) (CSR) as percentage of profit after tax (%) (H) 8.00 (consolidated) (2% of the average net profits of last 3 years) 5. List of activities in which expenditure in 4 above The Group spends on varied activities pertaining to CSR in has been incurred accordance with the Companies Act, 2013. The annual report on CSR detailing the various activities like soil and water conservation, energy conservation, women’s empowerment, among others undertaken during the financial year under review is attached as Annexure 3 of the Directors’ Report. SECTION C: OTHER DETAILS 1. Does the Company have any Subsidiary Company/ The Company has 30 subsidiaries as on March 31, 2019. Companies? 2. Do the Subsidiary Company/Companies The core philosophy and belief abided by the Group, of which participate in the BR Initiatives of the parent the Company and its subsidiaries are a part, is simple but vital in company? If yes, then indicate the number of such respecting the environment, operating with a sense of responsibility subsidiary company(s). towards several stakeholders and enhancing intrinsic value of the business, of the people and the country. Accordingly, the business responsibility initiatives are intrinsic to all the subsidiaries of the Company, as far as applicable them. The Board of Directors of the Company in its meeting held on October 30, 2018 has also constituted a Group Governance Committee to monitor the governance of its subsidiaries. 3. Do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers, Stakeholder engagement is an important aspect of sustainability distributors etc.) that the Company does business and leads to sustained profitability. Our Board, senior management, with, participate in the BR initiatives of the shareholders, employees and other stakeholders have helped us Company? If yes, then indicate the percentage of in conducting our operations in an ethical manner. We make sure such entity/entities? [Less than 30%, 30-60%, More that we are in regular touch with all our stakeholders to understand than 60%] their needs, concerns and are open to their views and suggestions. This enhances informed decision-making and paves way for more effective compliance of business responsibility initiatives. We encourage all the stakeholders to participate in the business responsibility initiatives. However, the participation in percentage terms can not be measured. 138 | Dalmia Bharat Limited SECTION D: BR INFORMATION 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR (a) Details of the Director/Directors responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies No. Particulars Details 1. DIN Number 00017963 2. Name Jayesh Doshi 3. Designation Whole Time Director & Chief Financial Officer (b) Details of the BR head No. Particulars Details 1 DIN Number (if applicable) Not Applicable 2 Name Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat 3 Designation Company Secretary 4 Telephone number 011-23465349 5 e-mail id Gemawat.sanjeev@dalmiabharat.com 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies The 9 principles are: P1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability. P2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle. P3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees. P4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized. P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights. P6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment. P7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner. P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development. P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner. (a) Details of compliance (Reply in Y/N) No. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1 Do you have a policy/ policies for.... Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 2 Has the policy being formulated in Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y consultation with the relevant stakeholders? 3 Does the policy conform to any The policies are based on prescribed principles, conformance to the national / international standards? If yes, specify? spirit of international standards like ISO 9000, ISO 14000, OHSAS (50 words) 18000, UNGC guidelines, GRI – G4 guidelines and ILO principles, wherever applicable. 4 Has the policy being approved by the Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Board? If yes, has it been signed by MD/ owner/ CEO/ appropriate Board 5 Does the company have a specified Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y committee of the Board/ Director/ Official to oversee the implementation of the policy? 6 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online? www.dalmiacement.com 7 Has the policy been formally The policies have been appropriately communicated to all relevant communicated to all relevant internal and external stakeholders directly or indirectly through various engagements, stakeholders? campaigns, training, awareness programmes, as applicable. Annual Report 2018-19 | 139 No. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 8 Does the company have in-house Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y structure to implement the policy/policies. 9 Does the Company have a grievance redressal Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y mechanism related to the policy/ policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/ policies? 10 Has the company carried out independent audit/ The working of the BR Policy is reviewed/evaluated on a regular basis evaluation of the working of this policy by an with a view to strengthen the policy framework. Further evaluation/ internal or external agency? audit is done through external agencies, wherever applicable; for example, third party assurance/audit is done on sustainability in accordance with GRI guidelines. (b) If answer to the question at serial number 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why: (Tick up to 2 options) No. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1 The company has not understood the Principles 2 The company is not at a stage where it finds itself in a position to formulate and implement the policies on specified principles 3 The company does not have financial Not applicable or manpower resources available for the task 4 It is planned to be done within next 6Months 5 It is planned to be done within the next 1 year 6 Any other reason (please specify) 3. Governance related to BR (a) Indicate the frequency with which the Board of The business responsibility performance of the Company is Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO to assessed on a regular basis by the Whole Time Director and Chief assess the BR performance of the Company. Financial Officer of the Company. Overall performance is assessed Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, More than atleast once in a year by the Board/Committee of the Board. 1 year (b) Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Integrated Report of Dalmia Bharat Group for the period 2015-17 is Report? What is the hyperlink for viewing this published in accordance with IIRC, UNGC, Global Reporting Initiatives report? How frequently it is published? (GRI) Standards, CSI and SDG and same can be accessed at www.dalmiacement.com. The Business Responsibility Report of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2019, as part of the Annual Report can be viewed at www.dalmiacement.com. 140 | Dalmia Bharat Limited SECTION E: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE Principle Details Information/Reference Section Page No. 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability. a. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption Corporate Governance Report 102 cover only the company? Yes/ No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others? b. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the Financial Capital 48 past financial year and what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the management? If so, provide details there of, in a bout 50 words or so. 2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle. a. List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has Natural Capital, Our products and 53-59, 26 incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or services opportunities. b. For each such product, provide the following details in Construction and building material Page respect of resource use (energy, water, raw material) per unit value chain in India is vast and number of of product (optional): complex with multiple players from GCCA Table organized and unorganized sector. (a) Reduction during sourcing/ production/ distribution Hence, it is extremely difficult to achieved since the previous year throughout the value provide information with respect to chain? the entire value chain. However, the (b) Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) information with reference to our has been achieved since the previous year? management control is provided in the section ‘GCCA Indicators’ c. Does the Company have procedures in place for sustainable Sustainable Procurement, 28, sourcing (including transportation)? Natural Capital 55 (a) If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. d. Has the company taken any steps to procure goods Sustainable Procurement 28 and services from local & small producers, including communities surrounding their place of work? (a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and capability of local and small vendors? e. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products Natural Capital 55 and waste? If yes what is the percentage of recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees. a. Businesses should promote the wellbeing of all employees. b. Please indicate the total number of employees. Human Capital 66 Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on Human Capital 66 temporary/contractual/casual basis. c. Please indicate the Number of permanent women Human Capital 66 employees. d. Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with Human Capital 66 disabilities. e. Do you have an employee association that is recognized by Human Capital 66 management? Annual Report 2018-19 | 141 Principle Details Information/Reference Section Page No. f. What percentage of your permanent employees is members Human Capital 66 of this recognized employee association? g. Please indicate the Number of complaints relating to Financial Capital 48 child labour, forced labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year. h. What percentage of your under mentioned employees were Human Capital 65 given safety & skill upgradation training in the last year? 4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised. a. Has the company mapped its internal and external Stakeholder engagement process 30 stakeholders? Yes/No. b. Out of the above, has the company identified the Stakeholder engagement process 30 disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalised stakeholders? c. Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to Social and Relationship Capital 87-95 engage with the disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised stakeholders? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights a. Does the policy of the company on human rights cover Human Capital 64 only the company or extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others? b. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in Financial Capital 48 the past financial year and what percent was satisfactorily resolved by the management? 6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment a. Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the Natural Capital 53 company or extends to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others. b. Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address Natural Capital 57 global environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, etc.? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc. c. Does the company identify and assess potential Natural Capital 55 environmental risks? Y/N d. Does the company have any project related to Clean Yes, we have initiated Clean Development Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in Development Mechanism (‘CDM’) about 50 words or so. Also, if yes, whether any environmental projects on blended cement under compliance report is filed? the approved CDM methodology ACM 0005. Further details of the same can be found at: http:// cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/DB/DNV CUK1156766994.32/view and https://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/ DB/SGS-UKL1161119962.23/view. The compliance reports, as per the provisions of the central and state authorities/boards, are submitted on regular intervals. e. Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean Natural Capital 56 technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc. 142 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Principle Details Information/Reference Section Page No. f. Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within Financial Capital 48 the permissible limits given by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being reported? g. Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/ Financial Capital 48 SPCB which are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year. 7. Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner. a. Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or Knowledge partnerships and 34 association? If yes, name only those major ones that your associations business deals with. b. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations Financial Capital 49 for the advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/ No; if yes specify the broad areas (drop box: Governance and Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others) 8. Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development. a. Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/ Social and Relationship Capital 87 projects in pursuit of the policy related to Principle 8? If yes, details thereof. b. Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house Social and Relationship Capital 87 team/own foundation/external NGO/government structures/ any other organization? c. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? Social and Relationship Capital 87-95 d. What is your company’s direct contribution to community Social and Relationship Capital 87-95 development projects-Amount in and the details of the projects undertaken? e. Have you taken steps to ensure that this community Social and Relationship Capital 87-95 development initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in 50 words, or so. 9. Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner. a. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases Intellectual Capital 75 are pending as on the end of financial year. b. Does the company display product information on the Financial Capital 48 product label, over and above what is mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/N.A. /Remarks (additional information) c. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the Financial Capital 48 Company regarding unfair trade practices, irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour during the last five years and pending as on end of financial year? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. d. Did your Company carry out any consumer survey/ Intellectual Capital 75 consumer satisfaction trends? Annual Report 2018-19 | 143 Independent Auditors’ Report To The Members of Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report. Opinion We have audited the accompanying standalone financial Information Other than the Standalone Financial Statements statements of Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as and Auditor’s Report Thereon Odisha Cement Limited) (“the Company”), which comprise the The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the balance sheet as at March 31, 2019, the statement of profit and preparation of the other information. The other information loss (including other comprehensive income), the statement of comprises the information included in the Management changes in equity and the statement of cash flows for the year Discussion and Analysis, Director’s Report including Annexures ended on that date, and a summary of the significant accounting to Director’s Report, Corporate Governance and Shareholder’s policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred Information, but does not include the standalone financial to as “the standalone financial statements”). statements and our auditor’s report thereon. In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial cover the other information and we do not express any form of statements give the information required by the Companies Act, assurance conclusion thereon. 2013 (the ‘Act’) in the manner so required and give a true and In connection with our audit of the standalone financial fair view in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards statements, our responsibility is to read the other information (‘Ind AS’) prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as materially inconsistent with the standalone financial statements amended, and other accounting principles generally accepted in or our knowledge obtained during the course of our audit or India, of the state of affairs of the Company as at March 31, 2019, otherwise appears to be materially misstated. its profit and total comprehensive income, changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we Basis for opinion are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements regard. in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone Financial Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities Statements for the Audit of the standalone financial statements section of The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered of these standalone financial statements that give a true and Accountants of India (ICAI) together with the independence fair view of the financial position, financial performance, total requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows of the financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the Company in accordance with the Ind AS and other accounting Rules made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical principles generally accepted in India. This responsibility also responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds audit opinion on the standalone financial statements. and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that Key Audit Matters are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness financial statements of the current year. These matters were of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial presentation of the standalone financial statements that give statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have whether due to fraud or error. 144 | Dalmia Bharat Limited In preparing the standalone financial statements, management standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions unless management either intends to liquidate the Company or may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. concern. The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content Company’s financial reporting process. of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the standalone financial Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone statements represent the underlying transactions and Financial Statements events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable audit and significant audit findings, including any significant assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a We also provide those charged with governance with a statement material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements from fraud or error and are considered material, if individually or regarding independence, and to communicate with them all in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related standalone financial statements. safeguards. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise From the matters communicated with those charged with professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism governance, we determine those matters that were of most throughout the audit. We also: significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk should not be communicated in our report because the adverse of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 1 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, • Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls 2016 (“the Order”) issued by the Central Government in relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, we give in “Annexure that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under A” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for and 4 of the Order. expressing our opinion on whether the Company has 2 As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our adequate internal financial controls system in place and audit we report that: the operating effectiveness of such controls. a) We have sought and obtained all the information and • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used explanations which to the best of our knowledge and and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit; related disclosures made by management. b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of by law have been kept by the Company so far as it the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the appears from our examination of those books; audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast c) The balance sheet, the statement of profit and loss significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue including other comprehensive income, statement of as a going concern. If we conclude that a material changes in equity and the statement of cash flows uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the relevant books of accounts; Annual Report 2018-19 | 145 d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, statements comply with the Ind AS specified under as amended in our opinion and to the best of our Section 133 of the Act; information and according to the explanations given to us: e) On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on March 31, 2019 taken on i. The Company does not have any pending litigations record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors which would impact its financial position; is disqualified as on March 31, 2019 from being ii. The Company has made provision, as required appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of under the applicable law or accounting standards, the Act; for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial contracts including derivative contracts. controls over financial reporting of the Company and iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer required to be transferred, to the Investor Education to our separate Report in “Annexure B”. Our report and Protection Fund by the Company. expresses an unmodified opinion on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting; g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2019 has been paid / provided S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company by the Company to its directors in accordance with ICAI Firm registration number: 000756N the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to Chartered Accountants the Act along with clause (xi) in Annexure – A of our report on the Order issued under section 143 (11) of the Act; and Sunil Wahal Date: May 09, 2019  Partner h) With respect to the other matters to be included in Place: New Delhi  Membership No: 087294 the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 146 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) dated May 09, 2019. Report on the matters specified in paragraph 3 of the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2016 (“the Order’) issued by the Central Government of India in terms of section 143(11) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) as referred to in paragraph 1 of ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section. (i) (a) The Company has maintained proper records under Section 189 of the Act which are overdue for showing full particulars, including quantitative details more than ninety days. Hence, reporting requirement and situation of property, plant and equipment. is not applicable. (b) The Company has a program of physical verification (iv) In our opinion and according to the information and of property plant and equipment that covers every explanations given to us, provisions of Section 185 and item of fixed assets over a period of three years. In 186 of the Act, wherever applicable, in respect of loans our opinion, this periodicity and manner of physical to directors including entities in which they are interested verification is reasonable having regard to the size of and in respect of loans and advances given, investments the Company and the nature of its assets. No material made and, guarantees, and securities given have been discrepancies were noticed on such verification complied with by the Company. undertaken during the year. (v) In our opinion and according to the information and (c) According to the information and explanations given explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted to us and on the basis of our examination of the any deposits from the public within the meaning of records of the company, the title deeds of immovable directives issued by the Reserve Bank of India and properties are held in the name of the Company provisions of sections 73 to 76 or any other relevant except for an immovable property having a gross provisions of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder. block after fair valuation of H47 crore and net block of (vi) According to the information and explanations given to us, H39 crore not registered in the name of the Company the Central Government has not prescribed maintenance as at the balance sheet date. As explained by the of cost records under clause (d) of sub-section (1) of management, the title deeds of the property shall be section 148 of the Act for the Company’s activities. executed in favor of the Company in accordance with Hence, the provisions of clause 3(vi) of the Order are not the Order of the Ld. Additional District Judge, Delhi. applicable to the Company. (ii) The Company is in the business of rendering services and (vii) (a) According to the information and explanations given its operations does not give rise to inventory. Therefore the to us and the records of the Company examined by provisions of clause 3(ii) of the Order are not applicable to us, in our opinion, the Company is generally regular the Company. in depositing undisputed statutory dues including (iii) (a) The Company has granted loan to One company provident fund, employees state insurance, incomecovered in the register maintained under section tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of 189 of the Act. In our opinion and according to the excise, value added tax, cess, goods & service tax information and explanations given to us, the terms and other statutory dues, as applicable, with the and conditions of the loan is not prejudicial to the appropriate authorities during the year. There are no interest of the Company. arrears of outstanding statutory dues as at March 31, 2019 for a period of more than six months from the (b) The Company has granted loans re-payable on date when they became payable. demand as agreed, to party covered in the register maintained under Section 189 of the Act. The (b) According to the information and explanations given repayment of loans is as per tenure only. In respect to us and the records of the Company examined by of loans which are granted as re-payable on demand, us, there are no dues of income tax or sales-tax or we are informed that the Company has not demanded service tax or duty of customs or duty of excise, value repayment of any such loan during the year and thus added tax and goods & service tax which have not there has been no default on the part of the parties been deposited on account of any dispute. to whom the money has been lent. The payment of (viii) According to the information and explanations given to interest, wherever applicable has been regular. us and as per the books and records examined by us, (c) There are no amount of loans granted to companies, the Company has not defaulted in repayment of loans or firms or other parties listed in the register maintained borrowings to banks. The Company has neither taken any Annual Report 2018-19 | 147 loan from financial institutions or Government nor has the management, transactions with the related parties any dues to debenture holders. are in compliance with Section 177 and 188 of Act and the details have been disclosed in the notes to the standalone (ix) In our opinion, and according to the information and financial statements, as required by the applicable Indian explanations given to us, the Company has not raised any accounting standards. money by way of initial public offer / further public offer and monies raised by way of term loans have been utilized (xiv) According to the information and explanations given to for the purpose for which term loans were obtained. us and on an overall examination of the balance sheet, the Company has not made any preferential allotment or (x) Based upon the audit procedures performed for the private placement of shares or fully or partly convertible purpose of reporting the true and fair view of the debentures during the year under audit and hence, standalone financial statements and according to the reporting requirements under clause 3(xiv) of the Order information and explanations given by the management, are not applicable to the Company. we report that no fraud by the Company or no fraud on the Company by the officers and employees of the Company (xv) According to the information and explanations given has been noticed or reported during the year. by the management, the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with directors or persons (xi) According to the information and explanations given to connected with him as referred to in Section 192 of the us, the Company has paid remuneration to Managing Act. Directors during the year in excess of the limits laid down by Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act, (xvi) According to the information and explanations given to after seeking the requisite approval of the shareholders. us, the provisions of Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of The Government has since notified the amendment in India Act, 1934 are not applicable to the Company. Section 197 permitting such payment subject to approval of shareholders. The Company’s applications to Central S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company Government seeking approval for such excess payment ICAI Firm registration number: 000756N have since been abated and the files have been closed. Chartered Accountants (xii) In our opinion, the Company is not a Nidhi Company. Therefore, the provisions of clause 3(xii) of the order Sunil Wahal are not applicable to the Company and hence not Date: May 09, 2019  Partner commented upon. Place: New Delhi  Membership No: 087294 (xiii) According to the information and explanations given by Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’ Report to the Members of Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) dated May 09, 2019 on its standalone financial statements Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) as referred to in paragraph 1(f) of ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section We have audited the internal financial controls over financial and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that reporting of Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient Odisha Cement Limited) (“the Company”) as of March 31, conduct of its business, including adherence to the Company’s 2019 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and statements of the Company for the year ended on that date. detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls financial information, as required under the Act. The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on “the Auditors’ Responsibility internal control over financial reporting criteria established Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's by the Company considering the essential components internal financial controls over financial reporting based on of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of our audit. Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India” (ICAI). Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial These responsibilities include the design, implementation 148 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial Auditing as specified under section 143(10) of the Act, to the statements in accordance with generally accepted extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures applicable to an audit of Internal Financial Controls and both of the company are being made only in accordance with issued by the ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note authorizations of management and directors of the require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan company; and and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about c) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or whether adequate internal financial controls over financial timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or reporting was established and maintained and if such controls disposition of the company's assets that could have a operated effectively in all material respects. material effect on the financial statements. Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial Financial Reporting controls system over financial reporting and their operating Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial effectiveness. controls over financial reporting, including the possibility Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting of collusion or improper management override of controls, included obtaining an understanding of internal financial material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future design and operating effectiveness of internal control based periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the over financial reporting may become inadequate because of auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with material misstatement of the financial statements, whether the policies or procedures may deteriorate. due to fraud or error. Opinion We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit the explanations, given to us the Company has, in all material opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls system respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over over financial reporting. financial reporting and such internal financial controls over Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial financial reporting were operating effectively as at March 31, Reporting 2019, based on the internal control over financial reporting A company's internal financial control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting preparation of financial statements for external purposes in issued by the ICAI. accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company company's internal financial control over financial reporting ICAI Firm registration number: 000756N includes those policies and procedures that: Chartered Accountants a) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and Sunil Wahal dispositions of the assets of the company; Date: May 09, 2019  Partner b) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are Place: New Delhi  Membership No: 087294 Annual Report 2018-19 | 149 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Standalone Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2019 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise (Amount in H) Notes As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 2 72 73 Capital work-in-progress 3 2 1 Other intangible assets 4 0 1 Intangible assets under development 5 5 0 Investments 6 6,783 6,779 Financial assets 7 (i) Investments 2 4 (ii) Loans 1 1 (iii) Other financial assets 5 2 Deferred tax assets (net) 5 Income tax assets 8 53 25 Other non-current assets 9 1 1 6,929 6,887 Current assets Financial assets 10 (i) Investments 328 283 (ii) Trade receivables 52 22 (iii) Cash & cash equivalents 11 4 (iv) Bank balance other than (iii) above 4 4 (v) Loans 309 490 (vi) Other financial assets 36 40 Income tax assets 11 12 Other current assets 12 13 4 753 859 Total Assets 7,682 7,746 EQUITY and LIABILITIES Equity Equity share capital 13 39 Share capital suspense account 13 6,654 Other equity 14 7,541 859 7,580 7,513 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 15 (i) Borrowings 2 2 Provisions 16 21 3 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 17 25 23 30 Current liabilities Financial liabilities 18 (i) Trade payables Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises (refer note-39) 0 0 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small 7 12 enterprises (ii) Other financial liabilities 7 173 Other current liabilities 19 56 13 Provisions 20 9 5 79 203 Total equity and liabilities 7,682 7,746 Significant accounting policies 1 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements. As per our report of even date For S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dalmia Bharat Limited Firm Registration No. 000756N Chartered Accountants Sunil Wahal Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Partner Managing Director Managing Director Membership No.: 087294 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 150 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Statement of Standalone Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2019 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise (Amount in H) Particulars Note No. For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Income Revenue from operations 21 164 125 Other income 22 87 91 Total Income 251 216 Expenses Employee benefits expenses 23 82 74 Finance costs 24 2 5 Depreciation and amortization expenses 2&3 4 4 Other expenses 25 44 39 Total 132 122 Profit before tax 119 94 Tax expenses Current tax 29 21 Deferred Tax charge / (Credit) 3 Prior year tax charge (14) 1 Total Tax Expenses 18 22 Profit after Tax for the year (A) 101 72 Other Comprehensive income A. Items that will not to be reclassified to profit or loss Re-measurement (losses)/ gains on defined benefit plans (17) 3 Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 6 (1) Other Comprehensive (loss)/ income (B) (11) 2 Total Comprehensive income for the year (A+B) 90 74 Earning per Share 26 Basic earnings Per Share (In Rupees) 5.25 3.75 [Nominal value of share Rupees 2 (Rupees 2) each] Diluted earnings per share (In Rupees) 5.24 3.72 [Nominal value of share Rupees 2 (Rupees 2) each] Significant accounting policies 1 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements. As per our report of even date For S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dalmia Bharat Limited Firm Registration No. 000756N Chartered Accountants Sunil Wahal Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Partner Managing Director Managing Director Membership No.: 087294 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 Annual Report 2018-19 | 151 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Standalone Statement of Cashflow for the year ended March 31, 2019 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 A. Cash flow from operating activities Net profit before tax 119 94 Adjustments Depreciation/amortisation 4 4 Share based payment expense 1 1 Dividend income (33) (23) Finance cost 2 5 Interest income (42) (46) Fair valuation (gain) / loss on investments 6 (10) (Profit)/Loss on sale of Investments (18) (12) Profit on sale of property, plant & equipment (0) (0) Operating profit before working capital changes 39 13 Adjustments for working capital changes : Trade payables, financial liabilities, other liabilities and provisions (165) 69 Trade Receivables, financial assets and other assets (46) (224) Cash generated from operations (172) (142) Direct taxes refund/ (paid) (15) (56) Net cash from operating activities (187) (198) B Cash flow from/ (used in) investing activities Purchase of property, plant & equipment (9) (2) Proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment 0 0 Sale/ (purchase) of current investments (net) (33) (178) Sale/ (purchase) of non current investments (net) 3 7 Proceeds from erstwhile shareholder of the Subsidiary Company 296 Loan given to related parties 1 1 Loan received back from related parties 184 237 Interest received 46 47 Dividend received from current investments 0 3 Dividend received from subsidiaries 33 20 Net cash (used in) investing activities 225 431 C Cash flow from/ (used in) financing activities (Repayment)/ Proceeds from Long term borrowings (net) 0 Proceeds/ (repayments) from short term borrowings (net) (200) Proceeds from issue of shares 4 4 Finance cost (2) (2) Dividend paid (including dividend distribution tax) (33) (33) Net cash from/ (used in) financing activities (31) (231) Net increase/ (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) 7 2 Cash and cash equivalents (opening Balance) 4 2 Cash and cash equivalents (closing Balance) 11 4 Change in Cash & Cash Equivalents 7 2 Note: 1) Previous period figures have been regrouped/restated where ever considered necessary The accompanying notes form an integral part of these standalone financial statements. As per our report of even date For S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dalmia Bharat Limited Firm Registration No. 000756N Chartered Accountants Sunil Wahal Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Partner Managing Director Managing Director Membership No.: 087294 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 152 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2019 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise a. Equity share capital: Equity shares of H2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid No. of Shares (H) As at April 01, 2017 Less: Change during the year As at March 31, 2018 Issue of share capital other than ESOP* 19,27,27,553 39 ESOP issued during the year 2,31,000 0 As at March 31, 2019 19,29,58,553 39 b. Equity capital suspense account: (Amount in H) (H) As at April 01, 2017 6,654 Less: Change during the year As at March 31, 2018 6654 Less: Change during the year* 6654 As at March 31, 2019 c. Other equity (Amount in H) Particulars Reserve and Surplus Other Total comprehensive Other income equity Securities Capital General Retained Employee Remeasurement of Premium Reserve Reserve earnings stock option post employment benefit obligation As at April 01, 2017 624 88 3 84 12 (2) 809 Profit/ (Loss) for the period 72 72 Other comprehensive income 2 2 Total comprehensive income 72 2 74 Add: Addition during the period 7 2 9 Less: Appropriations Dividend Paid (27) (27) Dividend Distribution tax (6) (6) As at March 31, 2018 631 88 3 123 14 0 859 Profit/ (Loss) for the period 101 101 Other comprehensive income (11) (11) Total comprehensive income for 101 (11) 90 the year Add: Addition during the period* 6,625 0 6,625 Less: Appropriations Dividend paid (33) (33) As at March 31, 2019 7,256 88 3 191 14 (11) 7,541 For description of the purposes of each reserve within equity, refer note 14 of financial statements. * Share suspense account as on April 01, 2018 represents shares pending to be allotted to the shareholders (Including Securities Premium) of erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited and OCL India Limited, specified under the Scheme, which have been allotted on January 09, 2019. As per our report of even date For S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dalmia Bharat Limited Firm Registration No. 000756N Chartered Accountants Sunil Wahal Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Partner Managing Director Managing Director Membership No.: 087294 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 Annual Report 2018-19 | 153 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies A. Corporate Information Dalmia Bharat Limited (“the Company”) is a public company domiciled in India and incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act applicable in India. Its equity shares are listed on NSE and BSE stock exchanges in India. The registered office of the Company is located at Dalmiapuram Distt Tiruchirappalli Tamil Nadu621651. The Company in the previous year had accounted for Scheme of Amalgamation sanctioned by the NCLT, Division Bench, Chennai, Erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited (DBL) (Transferor Company) amalgamated with Odisha Cement Limited (Transferee Company) with the appointed date as January 1, 2015 and subsequently the Transferee Company was renamed from Odisha Cement Limited to Dalmia Bharat Limited , with effect from October 30, 2018. The financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 were authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors on May 09, 2019. B. Significant Accounting Policies (i) Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to time). The financial statements have been prepared on an accrual basis and under the historical cost convention, except for the following assets and liabilities which have been measured at fair value: Investment in mutual funds measured at fair value [refer accounting policy 1B(ii)(t) regarding financial instruments], and Share based payments [refer accounting policy 1B(ii)(p)] The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupee (H) and all the values are rounded off to the nearest Crore, except number of shares, face value of share, earning per share or wherever otherwise indicated. Wherever the amount represented H'0' (zero) construes value less than Rupees fifty lakhs. (ii) Summary of significant Accounting Policies a. Business combinations and goodwill In accordance with Ind AS 101 provisions related to first time adoption, the Company had elected to apply Ind AS accounting for business combinations prospectively from the date of transition to Ind AS i.e. April 1, 2015. As such, Indian GAAP balances relating to business combinations entered into before that date, including goodwill, have been carried forward with minimal adjustment. Business combination post April 1, 2015 has been accounted for as per the provisions of the Scheme of amalgamation approved by the National Company Law Tribunal including the accounting for the resulting goodwill. b. Classification of Assets and Liabilities into Current/Non-current The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current/ non-current classification. An asset is treated as current when it is: Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal operating cycle Held primarily for the purpose of trading Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period, or Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period All other assets are classified as non-current. A liability is current when: It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle It is held primarily for the purpose of trading It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period, or There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period 154 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-current. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents. The Company has identified twelve months as its operating cycle. c. Investment in associates, joint ventures and subsidiaries. An associate is an entity over which the Company has significant influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control over those policies. A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The considerations made in determining whether significant influence or joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over the subsidiaries. The Company’s investments in its associates and joint ventures are accounted at cost. Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost in accordance with Ind AS 27. Any impairment loss required to be recognised in statement of profit and loss is in accordance with Ind AS 109. d. Current versus non-current classification The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current/ non-current classification. An asset is treated as current when it is: Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal operating cycle Held primarily for the purpose of trading Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period, or Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period All other assets are classified as non-current. A liability is current when: It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle It is held primarily for the purpose of trading It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period, or There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period The Company classifies all other liabilities as non-current. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents. The Company has identified twelve months as its operating cycle. e. Foreign currencies The Company’s financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees which is the Company’s functional currency. Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are recorded, on initial recognition in the functional currency, by applying to the foreign currency amount the spot exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange at the reporting date. Annual Report 2018-19 | 155 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in statement of profit or loss. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in statement of profit or loss are also recognised in statement of profit or loss). In accordance with Ind-AS 101 ‘First time adoption’, the Company has continued the policy of capitalisation of exchange differences on foreign currency loans taken before the transition date. Accordingly, exchange differences arising on long-term foreign currency monetary items related to acquisition of a property, plant and equipment before transition date are capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful life of the asset. f. Fair value measurement Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:  ►In the principal market for the asset or liability, or  ►In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Company uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. The Company determines the policies and procedures for both recurring fair value measurement, such as derivative instruments and unquoted financial assets measured at fair value. External valuers are involved for valuation of significant assets and liabilities. The management selects external valuer on various criteria such as market knowledge, reputation, independence and whether professional standards are maintained by valuer. The management decides, after discussions with the Company’s external valuers, which valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case. At each reporting date, the management analyses the movements in the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured or re-assessed as per the Company’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the 156 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements management verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents. The management, in conjunction with the Company’s external valuers, also compares the change in the fair value of each asset and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is reasonable. On an interim basis, the management and the Company’s external valuers present the valuation results to the Audit cum Risk management Committee and the Company’s independent auditors. This includes a discussion of the major assumptions used in the valuations. For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above. This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the relevant notes. • Property, plant and equipment (note 2) • Disclosures for valuation methods, significant estimates and assumptions (note 27) • Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) (note 34) • Comparison of carrying value and fair value of financial instruments (note 34) • Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy (note 35) g. Revenue recognition Revenue from contracts includes revenue with customers for sale of goods and provision of services. Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of the goods and services are transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The Company satisfies a performance obligation and recognises revenue over time, if one of the following criteria is met: i) The Company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternate use to the Company and the Company has as an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date. ii) The Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced. iii) The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Company’s performance as the Company performs. For performance obligations where one of the above conditions are not met, revenue is recognised at the point in time at which the performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms of payment and excluding taxes and duty. The Company assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria to determine if it is acting as principal oragent. Taxes collected on behalf of the government are excluded from revenue. Revenue is recognised to the extent it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue and costs, if applicable, can be measured reliably. Variable consideration If the consideration in a contract includes a variable amount, the Company estimates the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled in exchange for transferring the goods or services to the customer. Where the customers are provided with discounts, rebates etc., such discounts and rebates will give rise to variable consideration. The Company follows the ‘most likely amount’ method in estimating the amount of variable consideration. Sale of goods (including sale of scrap included under other operating revenue) Performance obligation in case of Revenue from sale of goods is satisfied at a point in time and is recognised when the performance obligation is satisfied and control as per Ind AS 115 is transferred to the customer. Amounts Annual Report 2018-19 | 157 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements disclosed as revenue are inclusive of excise duty (upto June 30, 2017) and net of returns and allowances, trade discounts, cash discounts and volume rebates. Since the recovery of excise duty flows to the Company on its own account, revenue includes excise duty. The Company collects Goods and Service Tax (‘GST’) (w.e.f. July 1, 2017) on behalf of the Government and, therefore, these are not economic benefits flowing to the Company. Hence, they are excluded from revenue. The Company provides non-cash incentives at fair value to customers. These benefits are passed on to customers on satisfaction of various conditions of various sales schemes. Consideration received is allocated between the products sold and non-cash incentives to be issued to customers. Fair value of the non-cash incentive is determined by applying principle of Ind AS 113 i.e. at market rate. The fair value of the non-cash incentive is deferred and recognised as revenue when the associated incentive is released. Revenue from services Revenue from marketing services is recognised as per the terms of the contract with customers based on stage of completion when the outcome of the transactions involving rendering of services can be estimated reliably. In case, the contract outcome cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent that the expenses incurred are eligible to be recovered and if it is probable that expenses were not recoverable, revenue is not recognised. Revenue from management services and business auxiliary services are recognised as and when services are rendered. Interest Income For all debt instruments/ subsidies measured at amortised cost, interest income is recorded using the effective interest rate (EIR). EIR is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument/ subsidies or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset or to the amortised cost of a financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the Company estimates the expected cash flows by considering all the contractual terms of the financial instrument (for example, prepayment, extension, call and similar options) but does not consider the expected credit losses. Interest income is included in “finance income” in the statement of profit and loss. Dividends Dividend income is recognized when the Company’s right to receive dividend is established, which is generally when shareholders approve the dividend. Insurance Claim Insurance claims and other claims are accounted for to the extent the Company is reasonably certain of their ultimate collection. h. Taxes Current income tax Current income-tax is measured at the amount expected to be paid to the tax authorities in accordance with the Income-tax Act, 1961 enacted in India and tax laws prevailing in the respective tax jurisdictions where the company operates. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date. Current income tax relating to items recognised outside statement of profit or loss is recognised outside statement of profit or loss {either in other comprehensive income (OCI) or in equity}. Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate. Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: 158 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, when the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside statement of profit or loss is recognised outside statement of profit or loss (either in other comprehensive income or in equity). Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternative Tax (MAT) paid in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961, which is likely to give future economic benefits in the form of availability of set off against future income tax liability. In the year in which the Company recognises MAT credit as an asset in accordance with the Guidance note on accounting for credit available in respect of Minimum Alternate Tax under the Income Tax Act, 1961, the said asset is created by way of credit to the statement of profit and loss and shown as deferred tax asset in the statement of financial position when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will be realised. i. Property, plant and equipment The Company has measured property, plant and equipment except vehicle, furniture and fixture and office equipments at fair value as on transition date i.e. April 1, 2015 which has become its deemed cost. In respect of vehicle, furniture and fixture and office equipments, the Company has applied applicable Ind AS from a retrospective basis and arrived at the carrying value as per Ind AS as at April 1, 2015. Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Capital work in progress are stated at cost net of impairment loss, if any. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Company depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the Annual Report 2018-19 | 159 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in statement of profit or loss as incurred. Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated on a straight-line basis using the rates based on estimated useful life of an asset which coincide with Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. j. Intangible Assets The Company has measured intangible assets at carrying value as recognised in the financial statements as on transition date i.e. April 1, 2015 which has become its deemed cost. Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the statement of profit and loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of another asset. Gains or losses arising from de recognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the statement of profit or loss when the asset is derecognised. A summary of amortization policies applied to the Company’s intangible assets is as below: Useful life Computer software 3 to 5 years k. Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalized as part of the cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the borrowing costs. l. Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception of the lease. The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement. For arrangements entered into prior to April 1, 2015, the Company has determined there are no arrangement contain lease on the basis of facts and circumstances existing on the date of transition. Where the Company is lessee A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease. A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the Company is classified as a finance lease. Finance leases are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the inception date fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the statement of profit and loss, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalized in accordance with the Company’s general policy on the borrowing costs [See note 1(l)]. Contingent rentals are recognised as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. 160 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Company will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term. Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the statement of profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless the payment to lessor is structured to increase in line with expected general inflation and compensate for the lessor’s expected inflation cost increase. Where the Company is the lessor Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases. Rental income from operating lease is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned. Leases are classified as finance leases when substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership transfer from the Company to the lessee. Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the Company’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment outstanding in respect of the lease. Operating lease payments are recognised as an income in the statement of profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term, unless the receipt from lessee is structured to increase in line with expected general inflation and compensate for the lessor’s expected inflation cost increase. m. Impairment of non-financial assets The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the company estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded companies or other available fair value indicators. The Company bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared separately for each of the Company’s cash-generating units to which the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years. For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year. To estimate cash flow projections beyond periods covered by the most recent budgets/forecasts, the Company extrapolates cash flow projections in the budget using a steady or declining growth rate for subsequent years, unless an increasing rate can be justified. In any case, this growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the products, industries, or country or countries in which the entity operates, or for the market in which the asset is used. Impairment losses, including impairment on inventories, are recognized in the statement of profit and loss, if any. For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date to determine whether there is an indication that previously recognised impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased. If such indication exists, the Company estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the statement of profit or loss. Annual Report 2018-19 | 161 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements n. Provisions and contingent liabilities General Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The expense relating to a provision is presented in the statement of profit and loss. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. Contingent liabilities Contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Company or a present obligation that is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. A contingent liability also arises in extremely rare cases where there is a liability that cannot be recognised because it cannot be measured reliably. The Company does not recognize a contingent liability but discloses its existence in the financial statements. o. Retirement and other employee benefits Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund contribution to Statutory Provident Fund, pension fund, superannuation fund and Employees state insurance (ESI) are defined contribution schemes. The Company has no obligation, other than the contribution payable to the provident fund. The Company recognizes contribution payable to these schemes as an expense, when an employee renders the related service. If the contribution payable to the scheme for service received before the balance sheet date exceeds the contribution already paid, the deficit payable to the scheme is recognized as a liability after deducting the contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the contribution due for services received before the balance sheet date, then excess is recognized as an asset to the extent that the pre-payment will lead to, for example, a reduction in future payment or a cash refund. The Company operates two defined benefit plans for its employees, viz., gratuity and provident fund contribution to Dalmia Cement Provident Fund Trust. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are determined on the basis of actuarial valuation at each year-end. Separate actuarial valuation is carried out for each plan using the projected unit credit method. Re-measurements, comprising of re-measurement gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through OCI in the period in which they occur. Re-measurements are not reclassified to statement of profit or loss in subsequent periods. Past service costs are recognised in statement of profit or loss on the earlier of:  The date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and  The date that the Company recognises related restructuring costs Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset. The Company recognises the following changes in the net defined benefit obligation as an expense in the statement of profit and loss:  Service costs comprising current service costs, past-service costs, gains and losses on curtailments and nonroutine settlements; and Net interest expense or income Current service cost is recognised within employee benefits expenses. Net interest expense or income is recognised with finance costs. Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilised within the next 12 months, is treated as short-term employee benefit. The Company measures the expected cost of such absences as the additional amount that it expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the reporting date. The Company treats accumulated leave expected to be carried forward beyond twelve months, as long-term employee benefit for measurement purposes. 162 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements Such long-term compensated absences are provided for based on the actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method at the year-end. Re measurement gains/losses are immediately taken to the statement of profit and loss and are not deferred. The Company presents the entire leave as a current liability in the balance sheet, since it does not have an unconditional right to defer its settlement for 12 months after the reporting date. p. Share-based payments Certain senior executives of the Company receive remuneration in the form of share-based payments whereby employees render services as consideration for equity instruments (equity-settled transactions). Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by the fair value at the date when the grant is made using an appropriate valuation model. Cost is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in Employee stock option outstanding in equity, over the period in which the performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled in employee benefits expense. The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Company best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The statement of profit and loss expense or credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in employee benefits expense. Service and non-market performance conditions are not taken into account when determining the grant date fair value of awards, but the likelihood of the conditions being met is assessed as part of the Company’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. Market performance conditions of Company are reflected within the grant date fair value. Any other conditions attached to an award, but without an associated service requirement, are considered to be non-vesting conditions. Non-vesting conditions are reflected in the fair value of an award and lead to an immediate expensing of an award unless there are also service and/or performance conditions. No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest because non-market performance and/or service conditions have not been met. Where awards include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as vested irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions are satisfied. When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense had the terms had not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met. An additional expense is recognised for any modification that increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of modification. Where an award is cancelled by the entity or by the counterparty, any remaining element of the fair value of the award is expensed immediately through statement of profit or loss. q. Earnings per Share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders (after deducting preference dividends and attributable taxes) by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Partly paid equity shares are treated as a fraction of an equity share to the extent that they are entitled to participate in dividends relative to a fully paid equity share during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share adjusts the figures used in the determination of basic earnings per share to take into account the after income tax effect of interest and other financing costs associated with dilutive potential equity shares and the weighted average number of additional equity shares that would have been outstanding assuming the conversion of all dilutive potential equity shares. r. Financial Instruments A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. Annual Report 2018-19 | 163 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Company commits to purchase or sell the asset. Subsequent measurement For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in below mentioned categories: Debt instruments at amortised cost Debt instruments and derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) Debt instruments at amortised cost A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met: a) The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, and b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding. This category is the most relevant to the Company. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the statement of profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the statement of profit or loss. This category generally applies to trade and other receivables. Debt instrument at FVTOCI A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both of the following criteria are met: a) The objective of the business model is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets, and b) The asset’s contractual cash flows represent SPPI. Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair value. Fair value movements are recognized in the other comprehensive income (OCI). However, the Company recognizes interest income, impairment losses and reversals and foreign exchange gain or loss in the statement of profit and loss. On de-recognition of the asset, cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from the equity to statement of profit and loss. Interest earned whilst holding FVTOCI debt instrument is reported as interest income using the EIR method. Debt instrument at FVTPL FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. Any debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for categorization as at amortized cost or as FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL. In addition, the Company may elect to designate a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortized cost or FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement or recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’). The Company has designated investment in mutual funds and derivative instruments as at FVTPL. Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the statement of profit and loss. Derecognition A financial asset is primarily derecognised when:  The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or  The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the 164 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements Company has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. Impairment of financial assets In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Company applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and recognition of impairment loss on the following financial assets and credit risk exposure: a) Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank balance b) Trade receivables or any contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset that result from transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 18 (referred to as ‘contractual revenue receivables’) The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on: Trade receivables The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition. For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines that whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. The credit risk has not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk of customer has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based on 12-month ECL. Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Company in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR. When estimating the cash flows, the Company considers:  All contractual terms of the financial instrument (including prepayment, extension, call and similar options) over the expected life of the financial instrument. However, in rare cases when the expected life of the financial instrument cannot be estimated reliably, then the entity is required to use the remaining contractual term of the financial instrument  Cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its trade receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed. ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the statement of profit and loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the statement of profit and loss. The balance sheet presentation for various financial instruments is described below:  Financial assets measured as at amortised cost and contractual revenue receivables: ECL is presented as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the balance sheet. The allowance reduces the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the Company does not reduce impairment allowance from the gross carrying amount. For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments on the basis of shared credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in credit risk to be identified on a timely basis. The Company does not have any purchased or originated credit-impaired (POCI) financial assets, i.e., financial assets which are credit impaired on purchase/ origination. Annual Report 2018-19 | 165 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables. All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs. The Company’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial guarantee contracts and derivative financial instruments. Subsequent measurement The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: Loans and borrowings This is the category most relevant to the Company. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in statement of profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit and loss. This category generally applies to borrowings. Financial guarantee contracts Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified subsidiary fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount of loss allowance determined as per impairment requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation. De-recognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit or loss. Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. s. Segment reporting The Company prepares its segment information in conformity with the accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting financial statements of the Company as a whole. t. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as they are considered an integral part of the Company’s cash management. C. Recent accounting pronouncements (i) Standards issued but not yet effective The amendments to the standards are issued, but not yet effective, upto the date of issuance of the financial statements are disclosed below. The Company intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective. 166 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements The Ministry of Corporate affairs (MCA) has issued the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2019 and Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Second Amendment Rules, 2019 amending the following standard: (a) Ind AS 116 Leases Ind AS 116 provides a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and their treatment in the financial statements for both lessors and lessees. Ind AS 116 will supersede the current lease guidance including Ind AS 17 Leases and the related Interpretations when it becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after April 01, 2019. The date of initial application of Ind AS 116 for the Company will be April 01, 2019. The Company is in the process of making an assessment of the impact of Ind AS 116 upon initial recognition, which is subject to changes arising from more detailed ongoing analysis. The management cannot provide a reasonable estimate of effects of the application of the Standard as they have not completed their impact assessment as at the reporting date. (b) Amendment to existing issued Ind AS The MCA has also carried out amendments in following accounting standards. These are: i) Ind AS 12 Income taxes to Appendix C Uncertainty over income tax treatments. ii) Ind AS 19 Employee Benefits iii) Ind AS 23 Borrowing Costs iv) Ind AS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures v) Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments vi) Ind AS 111 Joint Arrangements Application of above standards are not expected to have any significant impact on the Company’s financial statements. (ii) New and amended standards The Company applied Ind AS 115 for the first time. The nature and effect of the changes as a result of adoption of these new accounting standards are described below. Several other amendments and interpretations apply for the first time in March 2019, but do not have an impact on the financial statements of the Company. The Company has not early adopted any standards or amendments that have been issued but are not yet effective. (a) Ind AS 115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Ind AS 115 was issued on March 28, 2018 and supersedes Ind AS 18 Revenue and it applies, with limited exceptions, to all revenue arising from contracts with its customers. Ind AS 115 establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers and requires that revenue be recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. Ind AS 115 requires entities to exercise judgement, taking into consideration all of the relevant facts and circumstances when applying each step of the model to contracts with their customers. The standard also specifies the accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract and the costs directly related to fulfilling a contract. In addition, the standard requires extensive disclosures. The application of Ind AS 115 did not have any significant impact on the financial statement of the Company. (b) Amendment to existing issued Ind AS The MCA has also carried out amendments in the following accounting standards. These are: i) Ind AS 20 Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance:Government grant related to non-monetary asset ii) Ind AS 38 Intangible asset:Intangible asset acquired free of charge iii) Ind AS 40 Investment Property :-Transfers of Investment Property iv) Ind AS 28 Investments in Associates:Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures v) Ind AS 12 Income taxes:Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses The effect on adoption of above mentioned amendments were insignificant on the financial statements. Annual Report 2018-19 | 167 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 2A. Property, plant and equipment (Amount in H) Land Land Buildings Furniture Vehicles Office Total (free hold) (lease hold) and fixtures equipment Cost As at March 31, 2017 18 0 56 2 3 2 81 Additions during the year 0 1 0 1 Disposals during the year 0 0 0 0 As at March 31, 2018 18 0 56 2 4 2 82 Additions during the year 1 1 2 Disposals during the year 0 0 As at March 31, 2019 18 0 56 3 4 3 84 Depreciation As at March 31, 2017 0 4 0 1 0 5 Charge for the year 2 1 0 1 4 On Disposals 0 0 As at March 31, 2018 0 6 1 1 1 9 Charge for the year 2 0 0 1 3 On Disposals 0 0 0 As at March 31, 2019 0 8 1 1 2 12 Net Block As at March 31, 2019 18 48 2 3 1 72 As at March 31, 2018 18 50 1 3 1 73 3. Capital work-in-progress  (Amount in H) Capital work-in-progress Cost As at April 01, 2017 Additions during the year 1 Disposals during the year As at March 31, 2018 1 Additions during the year 1 Disposals during the year As at March 31, 2019 2 4. Other Intangible Assets  (Amount in H) Computer Software Cost As at April 01, 2017 1 Additions during the year 0 Disposals during the year As at March 31, 2018 1 Additions during the year Disposals during the year As at March 31, 2019 1 Amortisation As at April 01, 2017 Charge for the year 0 On Disposals As at March 31, 2018 0 Charge for the year 1 On Disposals As at March 31, 2019 1 Net Block As at March 31, 2019 0 As at March 31, 2018 1 168 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 5. Intangible assets under development  (Amount in H) Capital work-in-progress Cost As at April 01, 2017 0 Additions during the year 0 Disposals during the year As at March 31, 2018 0 Additions during the year 5 Disposals during the year As at March 31, 2019 5 6. Financial assets (i) Investments  (Amount in H) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Cost Unquoted equity shares (Investment in subsidiaries) 31,40,45,267 (March 31, 2018: 23,42,51,187) Shares of H10/each 6,753 6,749 fully paid up in Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited 500,000 (March 31, 2018: 500,000) Shares of H10/each fully paid up 1 6,754 1 6,750 in Dalmia Power Limited Quoted equity shares 14,829,764 (March 31, 2018: 14,829,764) Equity Shares of H2/each 29 29 fully paid up in Dalmia Bharat Sugar and Industries Limited Unquoted equity shares (others) Nil (March 31, 2018: 20) Shares of H10/each fully paid up in Asian (200) Refractories Limited (under liquidation) Nil (March 31, 2018: 25) Shares of H10/each fully paid up in Assam (144) Bengal Cement Company Limited (under liquidation) 250 (March 31, 2018: 250) Shares of H10/each fully paid up in (2500) (2500) Haryana Financial Corporation Total 6,783 6,779 Aggregate book value of quoted investments 29 29 Aggregate market value of quoted investments 184 95 Aggregate book value of unquoted investments 6,754 6,750 Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments 7. Financial assets (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (i) Investments At fair value through profit and loss A. Venture capital fund (Unquoted) 1,188 (March 31, 2018: 1,188) Units of H29,930/(March 31, 2018: H49,430/-) each 2 4 fully paid up in Urban Infrastructure Opportunities Fund B. Tax free bonds (quoted) 8.30% NHAI tax free bonds 0 0 2 4 Aggregate book value of quoted investments 0 0 Aggregate market value of quoted investments 0 0 Aggregate book value of unquoted investments 2 4 (ii) Loans (Considered good and unsecured unless otherwise stated) Loans -Employees 1 1 1 1 Annual Report 2018-19 | 169 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 7. Financial assets (contd.) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Break-up for security details : Loan receivable considered goodSecured Loan receivable considered goodUnsecured 1 1 Loan receivableCredit impaired 1 1 (iii) Other financial assets (Considered good and unsecured unless otherwise stated) Security deposit made 5 2 Purchase consideration receivable* 0 0 5 2 * * Being the amount due to Dalmia Bharat Limited (DBL) from Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited (DCBL) is a consideration for transfer of undertaking Adwetha Cement Holding Limited (ACHL) pursuant to the effectiveness of the another Scheme of arrangement and amalgamation between DCBL and its related parties including ACHL as approved by Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai Bench vide its order dated October 20, 2017. (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Break up of financial assets carried at amortised cost Investments 0 0 Employee loans 1 1 Security deposits 5 2 Purchase consideration receivable 0 0 Total financial assets carried at amortised cost 6 3 Break up of financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss Investment Venture capital Fund 2 4 2 4 8. Income tax assets  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Advance income tax (net of provision for tax) 53 25 53 25 9. Other Non Current Assets (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (Considered good and unsecured unless otherwise stated) Advances other than capital advance Prepayments 1 1 1 1 170 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 10. Financial Assets (i) Investments  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 At fair value through profit and loss Units of mutual funds (Quoted) Debt based schemes 154 242 Quoted equity shares 5,20,400 (March 31, 2018: 5,20,400) Shares of H1/each fully paid up in The Ramco 38 38 Cements Limited 50,000 (March 31, 2018: 50,000) Shares of H10/each fully paid up in Poddar Pigments 1 1 Limited. Nil (March 31, 2018: 12,900) Shares of H10/each fully paid up in Reliance Industries 2 Limited 39 41 Investments in traded corporate bonds-quoted 8.39% SBI Bonds-2021 10 9.51% LIC Housing -2019 25 Investments in non trade corporate bonds-quoted 8.65% KMPL 10-JUNE-19 50 7.69% HDFC NCD -2019 25 Aditya Birla Finance Limited NCD 25 Total 328 283 Aggregate book value of quoted investments Aggregate market value of quoted investments 328 283 328 283 (ii) Trade Receivables Trade receivables 0 Receivables from other related parties (refer note 33) 52 22 Total Trade receivables 52 22 Break-up for security details : Trade receivables Trade receivables considered goodUnsecured 52 22 52 22 Impairment Allowance (allowance for bad and doubtful debts) Doubtful Total Trade receivables 52 22 No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the company either severally or jointly with any other person. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 30 to 90 days. (iii) Cash and cash equivalents (Amount in H) Balances with Banks : On current accounts 0 2 On deposit accounts with original maturity of less than three months 11 On cash credit accounts 0 Cash on hand 0 0 Cheques on hand 0 2 11 4 Annual Report 2018-19 | 171 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 10. Financial Assets (contd.) (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (iv) Bank balance other than (iii) above Balances with Banks : Un paid Dividend account 4 4 4 4 At 31 March 2019, the Company had available Nil (31 March 2018: HNil) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities. For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Balances with banks: – On current accounts 0 2 – On deposit accounts with original maturity of less than three months 11 Cash on hand 0 0 Cheques on hand 0 2 11 4 (v) Loans (Considered good and unsecured unless otherwise stated) Loans Employees 1 1 Related parties 278 459 Others 30 30 309 490 Break-up for security details : Loan receivable considered goodSecured Loan receivable considered goodUnsecured 309 490 Loan receivableCredit impaired 309 490 (vi) Other financial assets (Considered good and unsecured unless otherwise stated) Security deposit made 1 1 Interest receivable 35 39 36 40 Break up of financial assets carried at amortised cost Loans to employees 1 1 Loans to related parties 278 459 Loans to others 30 30 Trade receivable 52 22 Cash and cash equivalents 15 8 Security deposit made 1 1 Interest receivable 35 39 412 560 Break up of financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss Investment mutual funds 154 242 Investment quoted equity shares 39 41 Investments in traded corporate bonds-quoted 35 Investments in non trade corporate bonds-quoted 100 328 283 11. Income tax assets (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balances with tax authorities 12 12 172 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 12. Other current assets (Considered good and unsecured unless otherwise stated) (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Advances other than capital advance Advances recoverable in cash or in kind or for value to be received 10 1 Other advances Prepayments 2 2 Deposits and Balances with Government Departments and other authorities 1 1 13 4 13.A Share capital (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Authorised : 1,59,55,00,000 (March 31, 2018: 1,59,55,00,000) Equity Shares of H2/each 319 319 1,00,000 (March 31, 2018: 1,00,000) Preference Shares of H100/each 1 1 5,00,00,000 (March 31, 2018: 5,00,00,000) Preference Shares of H10/each 50 50 370 370 (a) Pursuant to amalgamation of OCL India Limited, Dalmia Cement East Limited, Dalmia Bharat Cement Holdings Limited (DBCHL),Shri Rangam Securities Holdings Limited (SRSHL) and Dalmia Bharat Limited with the Company, the authorised equity share capital of the Company stands increased by Nil (Previous year: H319) H2 each. (b) The increase in authorised equity share capital of the Company by Nil (Previous year: H1) H100 each on amalgamation of OCL India Limited with the Company (c) The increase in authorised preference share capital of the Company by Nil (Previous year: H50) H10 each on amalgamation of Dalmia Cement East Limited with the Company (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Issued, Subscribed and Fully Paid Up : 19,29,58,553 (March 31, 2018: Nil) Equity Shares of H2/each 39 39 a. Reconciliation of Equity Shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting period As at March 31, 2019 No. of shares H At the beginning of the year Add : Issued during the year other than ESOP* 19,27,27,553 39 Add : ESOP issued during the year 2,31,000 0 At the end of the year 19,29,58,553 39 b. Terms/ rights attached to equity shares The Company has only one class of equity shares having a face value of H2 per share. Each equity shareholder is entitled to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. In the event of winding-up of the Company, the equity shareholders shall be entitled to be repaid remaining assets of the company after distribution of all preferential amounts in the ratio of the amount of capital paid up on such equity shares. Annual Report 2018-19 | 173 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 13.A Share capital (contd.) c. Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years immediately preceding the Balance Sheet date During a period of 5 During a period of 5 years up to 31 March 19 years up to 31 March 18 No. of Shares No. of Shares Equity shares of H2 each fully paid up issued pursuant to the 19,27,27,553 Scheme of Amalgamation between Dalmia Bharat Limited (DBL) and Odisha Cement Limited without payments being received in cash. d. Details of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in the Company As at March 31, 2019 No. of shares % holding Rama Investment Company Private Limited 7,98,46,410 41.38% Sita Investment Company Limited 1,38,88,260 7.20% As per records of the Company, including its register of shareholders/members and other declarations received from shareholders regarding beneficial interest, the above shareholding represents both legal and beneficial ownerships of shares. 13B. Share capital suspense account * (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 6,654 6,654 * Share suspense account as on April 01, 2018 represents shares pending to be allotted to the shareholders (Including Securities Premium) of erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited and OCL India Limited, specified under the Scheme, which have been allotted on January 09, 2019. 14. Other equity  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Employee stock option Opening Balance as per last financial statements 14 12 Add: Addition during the year (0) 2 Closing Balance 14 14 Securities premium Opening balance as per last financial statements 631 624 Add: Addition during the year 6,625 7 Closing balance 7,256 631 General reserve Opening Balance as per last financial statements 3 3 Add: Amount transferred from surplus balance in the statement of profit and loss Closing Balance 3 3 Capital reserve Opening Balance as per last financial statements 88 88 Add: Amount transferred from surplus balance in the statement of profit and loss Closing Balance 88 88 Retained earnings Balance as per last financial statements 123 84 Add: Profit for the year 101 72 224 156 Less: Appropriations Dividend paid 33 27 174 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 14. Other equity (contd.) (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Dividend distribution tax 6 Total Appropriations 33 33 Net Surplus in the statement of profit and loss 191 123 Other comprehensive income Opening Balance as per last financial statements 0 -2 Add: Addition during the year (11) 2 Closing Balance (11) 0 180 123 Total other equity 7,541 859 Distribution made and proposed Cash dividends on equity shares declared and paid : Final dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2018 : Rupees 1.70 Per share (March 31, 33 20 2017: Rupees 2.20 Per share) 33 20 Proposed dividends on equity shares: Proposed dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2019: Rupees 2 per share (March 39 33 31, 2018 : Rupees 1.70 per share) 39 33 Description of nature and purpose of each reserve (a) Employee stock option The fair value of the equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees is recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss with corresponding credit to Employee Stock Options Outstanding Account. (b) Securities Premium The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities Premium Reserve. In case of equity-settled share based payment transactions, the difference between fair value on grant date and nominal value of share is accounted as securities premium reserve. The reserve will utilised in accordance with the provisions of Company Act 2013. (c) General ReserveThe Company has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Company before declaring dividend to general reserve pursuant to the earlier provisions of Companies Act, 1956. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013. (d) Capital ReserveCapital Reserve represents H88 Crore created due to Reduction of share capital as per Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation. (e) Retained EarningsRetained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, less any transfers to general reserve, dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders. Retained Earnings is a free reserve available to the Company. 15. Financial liabilities (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (i) Borrowings Unsecured Obligations under finance lease (Refer note30) 2 2 2 2 Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost Obligations under finance lease 2 2 2 2 16. Provisions  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Provision for gratuity 21 3 21 3 Annual Report 2018-19 | 175 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 17. Deferred Tax Liabilities / Assets Deferred Tax assets/ liabilities are attributable to the following items : (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Liabilities Depreciation 20 25 Others 20 25 Assets Expenses allowable for tax purposes when paid 3 0 Others 22 25 0 Deferred Tax Liabilities (net) (5) 25 (i) The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018 are: Statement of profit and loss: Current income tax charge 29 21 MAT credit entitlement Deferred Tax charge / (Credit) 3 Prior year tax charge (14) 1 Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit or loss 18 22 OCI Section Re-measurement (gains)/ losses on defined benefit plans Income tax related to items recognized in OCI during the year 6 (1) 6 (1) (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (ii) Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018: Accounting Profit before tax 119 94 Applicable tax rate 34.94% 34.61% Computed Tax Expense 42 33 Expense considered for tax purpose 1 Dividend income/capital gains exempt from tax (12) (12) Non-deductible expenses for tax purposes (2) 1 Adjustment of tax related to earlier years (14) Others 3 Income tax reported in Statement of Profit and Loss 18 22 (iii) Deferred tax: Deferred tax relates to the following:  (Amount in H) Balance Sheet As per Profit & Loss As at March As at March As at March As at March 31, 2019 31, 2018 31, 2019 31, 2018 Property, plant and equipment 20 21 (1) (4) Others 6 (1) 6 Less: Expenses allowable for tax purpose when paid 3 2 (1) (3) Provision for doubtful debts and advances Others 22 Deferred tax expense/(income) (3) (1) Net deferred tax (assets)/liabilities (5) 25 176 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 17. Deferred Tax Liabilities / Assets (contd.) (Amount in H) Balance Sheet As per Profit & Loss As at March As at March As at March As at March 31, 2019 31, 2018 31, 2019 31, 2018 Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities (net): Opening balance as of 1 April 25 24 Tax income/expense during the period recognised in profit or loss 3 Tax income/expense during the period recognised in OCI (6) 1 Prior period tax (5) Others (22) Closing balance as at 31 March (5) 25 18. Financial liabilities (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (i) Trade payables Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises (refer note-39) 0 0 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises * 7 12 7 12 * Trade Payables includes due to related parties Rupees 854/(31 March, 2018: HNil) (ii) Other financial liabilities Directors' Commission payable 1 1 Unclaimed Dividend* 4 4 Payables to Employees 2 1 Amount Payable to related Party** 167 Capital creditors 0 0 7 173 * During the year H0 has been transferred to deposit in Investor Education & Protection Fund ** Amount payable to DCBL due to Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation. Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost Trade payables 7 12 Directors' Commission payable 1 1 Unclaimed Dividend* 4 4 Amount Payable to related Party 167 Capital creditors 0 0 12 184 19. Other current liabilities  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Other liabilities Statutory dues 11 12 PF guarantee Interest payable 1 1 Others# 44 56 13 # includes amount payable to Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited H43. Annual Report 2018-19 | 177 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 20 Provisions  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Provision for leave encashment 8 4 Provision for employee benefits 1 1 9 5 21. Revenue from operations  (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Management services 164 124 Other Operating revenue 1 164 125 (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 21.1 Disaggregated revenue information Management service revenue 164 124 164 124 The following table provides information about receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers 21.2 Contract Balance  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Contract assets Trade Receivables 52 22 Contract liabilities Advance from customer No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the company either severally or jointly with any other person. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 30 to 90 days. 21.3 Reconciliation the amount of revenue recognised in the statement of profit and loss with the contracted price: For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Revenue as per contract price 164 124 Adjustment Discount Revenue from contract with customers 164 124 21.4 Performance obligations Revenue of the Company is to provide management services to its group companies and accordingly recognised revenue over the period of the contract based on the service rendered. 22. Other income (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Dividend income from non-current Investments from Subsidiary company 33 20 from current investments 0 3 Interest income 42 46 Fair valuation gain / (loss) on investments (6) 10 Profit on sale of current investments 19 Less: Loss on sale of current investments 1 18 12 Profit on sale of fixed assets 0 Miscellaneous receipts 0 0 87 91 178 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 23. Employee benefits expense (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Salaries, wages and bonus 71 65 Gratuity expense 2 2 Contribution to provident and other funds 5 5 Expenses on employees stock options scheme 1 1 Workmen and staff welfare expenses 3 1 82 74 24. Finance costs (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Interest On short term borrowings 0 1 Others 1 1 On defined benefit obligation 1 1 Other borrowing cost 0 2 2 5 25. Other expenses (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Repairs and MaintenanceOthers 2 3 Rent 7 7 Insurance 1 0 Travelling 5 5 Advertisement and Publicity 0 1 Professional Charges 14 13 Rates and Taxes 1 1 Computer Expenses 1 1 Management service charges 0 Corporate social responsibility expenses 1 1 Miscellaneous Expenses 12 7 44 39 26. Earning per share (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Basic EPS Net Profit for calculation of Basic EPS (H) 101 72 Total number of equity shares outstanding at the end of the year 19,29,58,553 19,27,27,553 Weighted average number of equity shares for calculation of Basic EPS 19,27,47,805 19,24,05,978 Basic EPS (Rupees) 5.25 3.75 Diluted EPS Net Profit for calculation of Diluted EPS (H) 101 72 Weighted average number of equity shares for calculation of diluted EPS 19,27,47,805 19,24,05,978 Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares 2,92,964 10,38,094 Weighted average number of equity shares for calculation of diluted EPS 19,30,40,769 19,34,44,072 Diluted EPS (Rupees) 5.24 3.72 Annual Report 2018-19 | 179 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 27. Disclosure of significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Company's financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods. Judgements, estimates and assumptions The judgements and key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are described below. The Company based its judgements, assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur. Significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are as specified below:Share-based payments The Company initially measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees using Black-Scholes model to determine the fair value of the liability incurred. Estimating fair value for equity-based payment transactions requires determination of the most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option, volatility, risk free rate, expected dividend yield, market price and exercise price and making assumptions about them. For equity-settled share-based payment transactions, the liability needs to be disclosed at the carrying amount at end of each reporting period up to the date of settlement. The assumptions and models used for estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed in note 29. Change in assumptions for estimating fair value of share-based payment transactions is expected to have insignificant impact on income statement. Taxes Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies. The Company is having brought forward losses and unabsorbed depreciation that may be used to offset taxable income. The Company has tax planning opportunities available that could support the recognition of these losses as deferred tax assets. On this basis, the Company has determined that it can recognise deferred tax assets on the tax losses carried forward. The Company has created deferred tax asset on other deductible temporary differences, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Further details on taxes are disclosed in note 17. Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits) The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, expected rate of return on assets, future salary increases and mortality rates. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. The parameter most subject to change is the discount rate. In determining the appropriate discount rate for plans operated in India, the management considers the interest rates of government bonds in currencies consistent with the currencies of the post-employment benefit obligation. The mortality rate is based on mortality rates from Indian Assures Lives Mortality 2006-08. Those mortality tables tend to change only at interval in response to demographic changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are based on expected future inflation rates. Further details about gratuity obligations are given in note 28. 180 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 27. Disclosure of significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions (contd.) Fair value measurement of financial instruments When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the DCF model. The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values. Judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. See note 34 and 35 for further disclosures. Property, plant and equipment The Company uses its technical expertise along with historical and industry trends for determining the economic life of an asset/component of an asset. The useful lives are reviewed by management periodically and revised, if appropriate. In case of a revision, the unamortised depreciable amount is charged over the remaining useful life of the assets. Impairment of property, plant and equipment Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal calculation is based on available data from binding sales transactions, conducted at arm’s length, for similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The value in use calculation is based on a DCF model. The cash flows are derived based on remaining useful life of the respective assets. The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the DCF model as well as the expected future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes. There are no impairment losses recognized for the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018. Impairment of financial assets The impairment provisions for financial assets disclosed in note 10 are based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates. The Company uses judgement in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Company's past history, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates at the end of each reporting period. 28. Gratuity and other Post Employment benefit plans Gratuity The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan. The gratuity is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Under the Act employee who has completed five years of service is entitled to gratuity on departure at 15 days salary (last drawn salary) for each completed year of service. The Scheme is funded through Gratuity Fund Trust with an insurance company in the form of a qualifying insurance policy. The Trust is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the determination of investment strategy. The Company makes provision of such gratuity asset/ liability in the books of account on the basis of actuarial valuation carried out by an independent actuary. Provident fund (‘PF’) The Company contributes provident fund liability to Dalmia Cement Provident Fund Trust. As per the Guidance Note on implementing notified AS 15, Employee Benefits issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), provident funds set up by the employers, which require interest shortfall to be met by the employer, needs to be treated as defined benefit plan. The following tables summarize the components of net employee benefit expenses recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss and the funded status and amounts recognized in the balance sheet for the above mentioned plan. Statement of Profit and Loss Net employee benefit expenses (recognised in Employee Benefits Expenses) (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded) PF (Funded) 2018-19 2017-18 2018-19 2017-18 Current Service Cost 2 1 5 3 Net Interest cost on benefit obligation 0 1 (2) 0 Net Benefit Expense 2 2 3 3 Annual Report 2018-19 | 181 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 28. Gratuity and other Post Employment benefit plans (contd.) Change in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2019 (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded) PF Trust (Funded) Defined Fair value Net Defined Fair value Net benefit of plan obligation benefit of plan obligation obligation assets obligation assets (A) (B) (A-B) (A) (B) (A-B) April 1, 2018 (1) 9 5 4 32 31 1 Service cost (2) 2 2 5 5 Net interest expense/ (income) (3) 1 1 0 4 6 (2) Sub-total included in profit or loss (note 3 1 2 9 6 3 26) (2+3)=(4) Re-measurements Acquisition adjustments (4a) 0 0 Return on plan assets (excluding amounts (0) 0 (2) 2 included in net interest expense) (5) (Gain)/loss from changes in demographic 0 0 assumptions (6) (Gain)/loss from changes in financial 2 2 assumptions (6A) Experience (gains)/losses (7) 15 15 1 1 Sub-total included in OCI 17 (0) 17 1 (2) 3 (4a+5+6+6A+7)=(8) Contributions by employer (9) 5 (5) Contribution by plan participation/ 7 7 employees (10) Settlements/ (Transfer in) (11) 35 36 (1) Benefits paid (12) (1) (1) (41) (41) Sub-total (9+10+11+12)=(13) (1) (1) 1 7 (6) March 31, 2019 (1+4+8+13) 28 5 23 43 42 1 Change in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2018 (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded) PF Trust (Funded) Defined Fair value Net Defined Fair value Net benefit of plan obligation benefit of plan obligation obligation assets obligation assets (A) (B) (A-B) (A) (B) (A-B) April 1, 2017 (1) 10 6 4 22 22 0 Service cost (2) 1 1 3 3 Net interest expense/ (income) (3) 1 0 1 2 2 0 Sub-total included in profit or loss (note 2 0 2 5 2 3 26) (2+3)=(4) Re-measurements Acquisition adjustments(4a) (0) (0) Return on plan assets (excluding amounts (0) 0 0 (0) included in net interest expense) (5) (Gain)/loss from changes in demographic assumptions (6) 182 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 28. Gratuity and other Post Employment benefit plans (contd.) (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded) PF Trust (Funded) Defined Fair value Net Defined Fair value Net benefit of plan obligation benefit of plan obligation obligation assets obligation assets (A) (B) (A-B) (A) (B) (A-B) (Gain)/loss from changes in financial (0) 0 assumptions (6A) Experience (gains)/losses (7) (2) (2) 0 Sub-total included in OCI (2) (0) (2) 0 0 (0) (4a+5+6+6A+7)=(8) Contributions by employer (9) 2 (2) Contribution by plan participation/ 5 5 employees (10) Settlements/ (Transfer in) (11) (0) 0 Benefits paid (12) (1) (1) (0) (0) Sub-total (9+10+11+12)=(13) (1) (1) 5 7 (2) March 31, 2018 (1+4+8+13) 9 5 4 32 31 1 The Company expects to contribute H24 (March 31, 2018: H4) to gratuity in 2019-20. The Company expects to contribute H5 (March 31, 2018: H3) to PF in 2019-20. The major categories of plan assets of the fair value of the total plan assets of Gratuity and PF are as follows:- (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded) PF (Funded) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Unquoted investments: Insurance Company Products 5 5 Government securities as defined under PF rules 42 31 Total 5 5 42 31 The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity and PF for the Company are shown below:  (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded) PF (Funded) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 % % % % Discount rate 7.25 7.90 7.25 7.60 Future salary increases 7.00 7.00 Years Years Years Years Life expectation for 39.54 39.03 40.74 39.22 Mortality Table IALM (2006-08) IALM (2006-08) IALM (2006-08) IALM (2006-08) duly modified duly modified duly modified duly modified A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 is as shown below: Gratuity Plan: (Amount in H) Assumption Discount rate Future salary increases Sensitivity Level Gratuity (Funded) PF (Funded) Gratuity (Funded) PF (Funded) March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Impact on defined benefit 0 (1) (0) (0) 1 0 obligation 1 (1) Impact on defined benefit 5% 3% (5%) (3%) (5%) (3%) 5% 3% obligation (Change in %) Annual Report 2018-19 | 183 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 28. Gratuity and other Post Employment benefit plans (contd.) PF: Assumption Discount rate Future salary increases Sensitivity Level Gratuity (Funded) PF (Funded) Gratuity (Funded) PF (Funded) March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Impact on defined benefit 1 1 (0) (0) (1) (0) 2 2 obligation Impact on defined benefit 3% 3% (1%) (1%) (2%) (1%) 4% 6% obligation (Change in %) The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The following payments are expected contributions to the defined benefit plan in future years: (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded) PF (Funded) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Within the next 12 months (next annual 7 6 12 12 reporting period) Between 2 and 5 years 12 2 18 7 Between 5 and 10 years 12 1 13 13 Beyond 10 years 11 4 0 24 Total expected payments 42 13 43 56 The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation for gratuity at the end of the reporting period is 5 years (March 31, 2018: 4 years) and for PF at the end of the reporting period is 4 years (March 31, 2018: 4 years). Risk Exposure Through its defined benefit plans, the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:Asset Volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to bond yields, if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The plan asset investments is in insurance company products and in government securities. The investments are expected to earn a return in excess of the discount rate and contribute to the plan deficit. Asset liability matching risk The Company ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (ALM) framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the employee benefit plans. Within this framework, the Company’s ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. Liquidity Risk The Company actively monitors how the duration and the expected yield of investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the employee benefit obligations. The Company has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. 29. Share – based payments Employee stock option scheme 2011“ESOP 2011”was approved by the shareholders of the company in their meeting held on 26th May, 2011. The Company has granted 17,65,000 options to eligible employees of the company including employees of subsidiary company. Company had adopted a new ESOP Scheme namely DBL ESOP Scheme 2018 pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation amongst Odisha Cement Limited, Dalmia Bharat Limited and Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited and their respective shareholders and creditors. As per the said new ESOP Scheme, DBL granted 2 (Two) new stock options (‘New Options’) to the eligible employees of Company in lieu of every 1 (one) stock option held by them under DBEL ESOP Scheme 2011 (whether vested or unvested). 184 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 29. Share – based payments (contd.) The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted. However, the above performance condition is only considered in determining the number of instruments that will ultimately vest. Options have been granted with vesting period of 5 years on the basis of graded vesting and are exercisable for a period of 3 years once vested. There are no cash settlement alternatives. The Company does not have a past practice of cash settlement for these share options. The expense recognised for employee services received during the year is shown in the following table: (Amount in H) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 1 1 Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 1 1 Movements during the year The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year: March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Number WAEP Number WAEP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,35,000 272.66 2,81,000 192.35 Cancelled pursuant to Scheme of (1,35,000) 272.66 Arrangement and Amalgamation * Granted during the year pursuant to DBL 2,70,000 136.33 ESOP Scheme 2018 Exercised during the year (63,000)1 128.41 (98,000)2 134.82 Expired/ Lapsed during the year (48,000) 105.50 Outstanding at the end of the year 2,07,000 138.74 1,35,000 272.66 Exercisable at the end of the year 1 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options is Rupees. 1,214.40 /2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options is Rupees 2,545.57 /* The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at March 31, 2019 was 4.60 years (March 31, 2018: 5.43 years). The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was HNil (March 31, 2018: HNil). The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year is Rupees 108.62/each option to Rupees 191.77/each option (March 2018: Rupees 217.25/each option to Rupees 383.54/each option). The following table list the inputs to the models used for the plan for the year ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018:Grant 1 Grant 2 Grant 3 Dividend yield (%) 1.42 0.40 0.21 Volatility (%) 42.76 48.58 46.92 Risk–free interest rate (%) 8.16 7.71 7.54 Average expected life of options (years) 4.50 4.53 4.51 Weighted average share price (Rupees) for each 105.95 502.05 713.80 Date of grant May 18, 2012 January 29, 2015 February 03, 2016 Model used Black Scholes Model Black Scholes Model Black Scholes Model Annual Report 2018-19 | 185 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 30. Finance lease The Company has finance leases contracts for various items of office equipment’s. Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments are, as follows: (Amount in H) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Minimum lease Present value Minimum lease Present value payments of MLP payments of MLP Within one year 2 1 1 1 After one year but not more than five years 2 1 3 2 More than five years Total minimum lease payments 4 2 4 3 Less: amounts representing finance charges (2) (1) Present value of minimum lease payments 2 2 3 3 B. Operating lease – Assets taken on lease (Amount in H) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Lease payment for the year 7 7 31. Capital and other commitments (Amount in H) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not 1 1 provided for (net of advances) 32. Contingent liabilities (Not provided for) in respect of: (Amount in H) S. No. Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 a) Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts Provident Fund The honorable Supreme Court, has passed a decision on 28th February, 2019 in relation to inclusion of certain allowances within the scope of “Basic wages” for the purpose of determining contribution to provident fund under the Employees’ provident funds & miscellaneous provisions act, 1952. The Company, based on legal advice, is awaiting further clarifications in this matter in order to reasonably assess the impact on its financial statements, if any. Accordingly, the applicability of the judgement to the Company, with respect to the period and the nature of allowances to be covered, and resultant impact on the past provident fund liability, cannot be reasonably ascertained, at present. 186 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 33. Related party transactions A) List of related parties along with nature and volume of transactions is given below: Related Parties where control exists:(i) Subsidiaries of the Company Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited, Dalmia Power Limited, Kanika Investment Limited (upto September 17, 2017). (ii) Step down Subsidiaries of Company Arjuna Brokers & Minerlas Limited (upto Januray 29, 2018), Calcom Cement India Limited, D.I. Properties Limited, Dalmia Minerals & Properties Limited, Geetee Estates Limited, Golden Hills Resort Private Limited, Hemshila Properties Limited, Ishita Properties Limited, JayeVijay Agro Farms Private Limited, Rajputana Properties Private Limited, Shri Radha Krishna Brokers & Holding Limited (UPto January 29,2018), Shri Rangam Properties Limited, Sri Dhandauthapani Mines & Minerals Limited, Sri Madhusudana Mines & Properties Limited, Sri Shanmugha Mines & Minerals Limited, Sri Subramanya Mines & Minerals Limited, Sri Swaminatha Mines & Minerals Limited, Sri Trivikrama Mines & Properties Limited, Bangaru Kamakshiamman Agro Farms Private Limited, Alsthom Industries Limited, Chandrasekara Agro Farms Private Limited (w.e.f January 20,2018), Cosmos Cement Limited, OCL China Ltd, OCL Global Limited, RCL Cements Limited, SCL Cements Limited, Sutnga Mines Private Limited, Vinay Cement Limited, Dalmia DSP Limited and Hopco Industries Limited (w.e.f December 21, 2018). Other related parties: (i) Associate of the subsidiary company Dalmia Renewables Energy Limited (upto May 31, 2018) (ii) Joint ventures of the subsidiary Khappa Coal Company Private Limited, Radhikapur (West) Coal Mining Private Limited (iii) Key management personnel of the company Shri Jai Hari Dalmia – NonExecutive Director (w.e.f October 30, 2018)*, Shri Yadu Hari DalmiaNonExecutive Director (w.e.f October 30, 2018)*, Shri Gautam DalmiaManaging Director (w.e.f October 30, 2018)**, Shri Puneet Yadu Dalmia – Managing Director (w.e.f October 30, 2018)**, Shri D.N. DavarNonExecutive Director, Shri Jayesh DoshiWhole time Director & CFO, Shri P.K. KhaitanIndependent Director, Shri N. GopalaswamyIndependent Director, Shri V.S. JainIndependent Director, Smt. Sudha PillaiIndependent Director and Dr. Sanjeev GemawatCompany Secretary. * Managing Director (upto October 30, 2018) **Director (upto October 30, 2018) (iv) Enterprises controlled by the key management personnel of the company (with whom transactions have been taken place during the year) Dalmia Refractories Limited, Dalmia Bharat Sugar and Industries Limited, Kanika Investment Limited (w.e.f September 18,2017), Dalmia Bharat Group Foundation, Glow Home Technologies (P) Limited, Alirox Abrasives Limited, Antordaya Commercial and Holdings Private Limited, Shree Nirman Limited and Shri Chamendswari Minerals Limited. Annual Report 2018-19 | 187 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise B) The following transactions were carried out with the related parties in the ordinary course of business: (Amount in H) Name of the Related Nature of related Purchase ReimReimSale of Sale of Dividend Interest Dividend Sale of Security Security Director's Managerial Balance CSR Payable on Loans Loans Party party of goods bursement bursement goods Assets received Income paid InvestDeposit Deposit Sitting Remuneraadjusted on account of and and and of expense of expense and ment given refunded Fees and tion account of recognition advances advances services payable receivable services commisScheme of of MAT received given sion Arrangement credit back and Amalgaentitlement 188 | Dalmia Bharat Limited mation Dalmia Cement Subsidiary 0 0 0 145 33 11 43 184 (Bharat) Limited (1) (0) (92) (20) (36) (0) (0) (57) (237) (1) Dalmia refractories KMP Controlled 0 0 1 limited (3) Dalmia Bharat Sugar KMP Controlled 2 0 17 0 and Industries Limited (3) (0) (0) (21) (3) (0) Dalmia Bharat KMP Controlled 1 Foundation (1) Alsthom Industries Stepdown Limited Subsidiary (0) Calcom Cement India Stepdown 2 Limited Subsidiary (8) Dalmia Power Subsidiary 25 3 Limited (5) (217) Glow Home KMP Controlled Technologies (P) Limited (0) Dalmia DSP Limited Stepdown 0 Subsidiary Antordaya KMP Controlled 0 Commercial and Holdings Private Limited Alirox Abrasives KMP Controlled 0 Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise B) The following transactions were carried out with the related parties in the ordinary course of business: (Amount in H) Name of the Related Nature of related Purchase ReimReimSale of Sale of Dividend Interest Dividend Sale of Security Security Director's Managerial Balance CSR Payable on Loans Loans Party party of goods bursement bursement goods Assets received Income paid InvestDeposit Deposit Sitting Remuneraadjusted on account of and and and of expense of expense and ment given refunded Fees and tion account of recognition advances advances services payable receivable services commisScheme of of MAT received given sion Arrangement credit back and Amalgaentitlement mation Shri Chamundeswari KMP Controlled 0 Minerals Limited (0) Shri Nirman Limited KMP Controlled 0 (8) Shri Gautam Dalmia Key 0 6 Management Personnel (0) Shri J.H.Dalmia Director 0 4 (6) Shri Puneet Yadu Key 0 8 Dalmia Management Personnel (0) Shri Y.H.Dalmia Director 0 5 (8) Shri Jayesh Doshi Key 4 Management Personnel (4) Shri P.K. Khaitan Director 0 (0) Shri N. Gopalaswamy Director 0 (0) Shri V.S. Jain Director 0 (0) Smt. Sudha Pillai Director 0 (0) Shri D N Davar Director 0 Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Key 2 Management Personnel (1) Total 2 0 0 165 0 33 36 0 29 1 43 184 3 (3) (1) (0) (124) (23) (41) (0) (8) (0) (0) (0) (18) (57) (1) (237) (218) All figures in () represent amount for the year ended March 31, 2018 Annual Report 2018-19 | 189 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 33. Related party transactions (contd.) C) Balance outstanding at year end: (Amount in H) Name of the Related Party Nature Trade Loan Interest Other Trade Directors Purchase Guarantee of related party Payables Receivable Receivable Payable Receivable Commission Consideration given Payable receivables Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Subsidiary 1 43 49 0 Limted (2) (184) (32) (166) (18) (0) Alsthom Industries Limited Step down Subsidiary (0) Calcom Cement India Limited Step down Subsidiary 0 (1) Dalmia Bharat Sugar and KMP Controlled 3 Industries Limited (0) (2) Dalmia Power Limited Subsidiary 278 26 (275) (4) Dalmia Refractories Limited KMP Controlled 0 (0) (0) Dalmia DSP Limited Step down Subsidiary 0 Glow Home Technologies (P) KMP Controlled Limited Dalmia Bharat Foundation KMP Controlled 0 Shree Nirman Limited KMP Controlled 0 Antordaya Commercial and KMP Controlled 0 Holdings Private Limited Shri N. Gopalaswamy Director 0 Smt. Sudha Pillai Director 0 Shri P.K. Khaitan Director 0 Shri V.S. Jain Director 0 Shri D N Davar Director 0 Total 278 27 43 52 0 0 (2) (459) (36) (166) (21) (0) All figures in ( ) represent balance outstanding as at March 31, 2018 Investment with related parties are disclosed in note 6. D) Transactions with key management personnel Compensation of key management personnel of the Company:- (Amount in H) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Short-term employee benefits 26 15 Termination benefits 0 2 Postemployment gratuity 3 0 Share-based payment transactions 0 1 Total compensation paid to key management personnel 29 18 The amounts disclosed in the table are the amounts recognised as an expense during the reporting period relating to key management personnel. *Remuneration to the key managerial personnel does not include provision made for gratuity and leave benefits as they are determined on actuarial basis for the Company as a whole. 190 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 33. Related party transactions (contd.) E) Directors’ interests in the Employees stock option Scheme Share options held by certain Directors under the employees stock option scheme to purchase equity shares have the following expiry dates and exercise prices: Grant Date Expiry Date Exercise Price March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (H) Number outstanding* Number outstanding* January 29, 2015 January 29, 2021 108.62 66,000 45,000 February 03, 2016 February 03, 2022 191.77 22,500 13,500 Total 88,500 58,500 *refer note 29 F) The Transactions with related parties have been made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s length transactions. 34. Fair Values See out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Company’s financial instruments, other than those with carrying amounts that are reasonable approximations of fair values: (Amount in H) Carrying Value Fair Value March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Financial Assets Financial assets carried at amortised cost Loans and advances to employees 2 2 2 2 Security deposit 6 3 6 3 Purchase consideration Receivable 0 0 0 0 Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss Investment in tax free bond 0 0 0 0 Investment in venture capital fund 2 4 2 4 Investment in other equity shares 39 41 39 41 Investments in non-traded Bonds/NCD 101 101 Investments in traded Bonds/NCD 35 35 Investment in mutual funds 154 242 154 242 Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost Borrowings (including current maturity of long 2 2 2 2 term borrowings) The Company assessed that investment in tax free bonds, trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances, loans and advances to related parties, interest receivable, trade payables, interest accrued but not due on borrowings, director’s commission payable, capital creditors, are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short term nature. The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: Long-term fixed-rate and variable-rate receivables/borrowings are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as interest rates, specific country risk factors, and individual creditworthiness of the customer and the risk characteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses of these receivables. The fair value of unquoted instruments, loans from banks and other financial liabilities as well as other non-current financial liabilities are estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities. The valuation requires management to use observable and unobservable inputs in the model, of which the significant observable and unobservable inputs are disclosed in the table below. Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant observable and unobservable inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value. Annual Report 2018-19 | 191 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 35. Fair value hierarchy The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Company’s assets and liabilities: Quantitative disclosures fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as at March 31, 2019: (Amount in H) Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value March 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Disclosure Financial assets carried at amortised cost Loans and advances to employees 2 2 Security deposit 6 6 Purchase consideration Receivable 0 0 Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost Borrowings (including current maturity of long term borrowings) 2 2 Measurement Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss Investment in tax free Bond 0 0 Investment in venture capital fund 2 2 Investment in other equity shares 39 39 Investments in non-traded Bonds/NCD 101 101 Investments in traded Bonds/NCD 35 35 Investment in mutual funds 154 154 There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year ended March 31, 2019. Quantitative disclosures fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as at March 31, 2018: (Amount in H) Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value March 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Disclosure Financial assets carried at amortised cost Loans and advances to employees 2 2 Security deposit 3 3 Purchase consideration Receivable 0 0 Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost Borrowings (including current maturity of long term borrowings) 2 2 Measurement Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss Investment in venture capital fund 4 4 Investment in tax free bond 0 0 Investment in other equity shares 41 41 Investment in mutual funds 242 242 There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year ended March 31, 2018. 192 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 36. Financial risk management objectives and policies The Company’s principal financial liabilities comprise borrowings, trade payables and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Company’s operations and to provide guarantees to support its operations. The Company’s principal financial assets include loans, investments, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and other financial assets that derive directly from its operations. The Company is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company’s senior management oversees the management of these risks and also ensure that the Company’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Company’s policies and risk objectives. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below: Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and commodity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include investments and deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, loans and borrowings and derivative financial instruments. The Company manages market risk through a treasury department, which evaluates and exercises independent control over the entire process of market risk management. The treasury department recommends risk management objectives and policies, which are approved by Senior Management and the Audit Committee Company. The activities of this department include management of cash resources, implementing hedging strategies for foreign currency exposures, borrowing strategies and ensuring compliance with market risk limits and policies. The analysis exclude the impact of movements in market variables on: the carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement obligations, provisions and the non-financial assets and liabilities of foreign operations. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. In order to optimize the Company’s position with regards to interest income and interest expenses to manage the interest rate risk, treasury performs a comprehensive corporate interest rate risk management by balancing the proportion of fixed rate and floating rate financial instruments in its total portfolio. There is no outstanding Loans at year end. Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. There is no outstanding forward contract and unhedged foreign currency exposure at year end. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counter party will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables and advances to suppliers) and from its financing activities, including deposits and other financial instruments. Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored. An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. An impairment analysis is performed at each quarter end on an individual basis for major customers. In addition, a large number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets disclosed in note 10 (ii). The Company evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, the trade receivables are located in several jurisdictions and operate in largely independent markets. Annual Report 2018-19 | 193 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 36. Financial risk management objectives and policies (contd.) (Amount in H) Ageing Up to 30 From 31 to From 61 to From 91 to More than Total days 60 days 90 days 180 days 180 days As at March 31, 2019 Gross carrying amount (A) 32 9 11 0 52 Expected Credit Losses (B) Net Carrying Amount (A-B) 32 9 11 0 52 As at March 31, 2018 Gross carrying amount (A) 17 1 0 4 22 Expected Credit Losses (B) Net Carrying Amount (A-B) 17 1 0 4 22 Financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in accordance with the Company’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved authorities. Credit limits of all authorities are reviewed by the management on regular basis. All balances with banks and financial institutions is subject to low credit risk due to good credit ratings assigned to the Company. Liquidity risk The Company monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using a liquidity planning tool. The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank loans, debentures and cash credit facilities. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contracted undiscounted payments (excluding transaction cost on borrowings). (Amount in H) Less than 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 years More than Total 1 Year 5 years As at March 31, 2019 Borrowings 0 2 2 Trade payables 7 7 Other financials liabilities 7 7 As at March 31, 2018 Borrowings 0 2 2 Trade payables 12 12 Other financials liabilities 173 173 37. Capital management For the purpose of the Company’s capital management, equity includes issued equity capital, securities premium and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity shareholders and net debt includes interest bearing loans and borrowings less current investments and cash and cash equivalents. The primary objective of the Company’s capital management is to safeguard continuity, maintain a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and provide adequate return to shareholders through continuing growth. The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the requirements of the financial covenants. The funding requirement is met through a mixture of equity, internal accruals, long term borrowings and short term borrowings. The Company monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. In order to achieve this overall objective, the Company’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. 194 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 37. Capital management (contd.) (Amount in H) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Long term borrowing 2 2 Less : Cash and Cash Equivalents 11 4 Less : Current Investments 328 283 Net Debt (337) (285) Equity 7,580 7,513 Capital and Net debt 7,243 7,228 Gearing ratio (5%) (4%) To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company review the fund management at regular intervals and take necessary actions to maintain the requisite capital structure. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018. 38. Remuneration paid to auditors (included in Miscellaneous Expenses): (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 A. Statutory Auditors As an auditor i) Audit Fee 0 0 ii) Tax Audit Fees 0 0 iii) Other services 0 0 In other capacity i) Certification Fee 0 0 Reimbursement of expenses 0 0 39. Details of dues to Micro and Small Enterprises as per MSMED Act, 2006 (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as 0 at the end of each accounting year The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of section 16, of the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (Development) Act, 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting year The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under Micro Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006. The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year; and The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under section 23 of the Micro Small and Medium Enterprise Development Act, 2006 Total Dues to Micro and Small Enterprises have been determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information collected by the management. This has been relied upon by the auditors. Annual Report 2018-19 | 195 Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 40. Details of loans and advances in nature of loans to subsidiaries, parties in which Directors are interested and Investments by the Loanee in the shares of the Company as required by clause 34 (3) of SEBI (listing obligations and disclosure requirements) Regulation 2015:- (Amount in H) Particulars As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Outstanding Maximum amount Outstanding Maximum amount amount as at end outstanding during amount as at end outstanding during of financial year financial year of financial year financial year Loans and Advances to subsidiaries Dalmia Power Limited 278 278 275 275 Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited 0 184 184 422 Note: Investment in subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in note 7. Following investments/ (disinvestments) were made in subsidiaries during the year. (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited 4 (293) Kanika Investment Limited (up to September 17, 2017) (2) 41. The Company has given loans and capital advances to various companies. Loans/ advances outstanding as at year end is given in below mentioned table along with purpose of the loan/ advances as required u/s 186(4) of the Companies Act 2013. (Amount in H) Name of company Amount outstanding As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Short term loan given for general corporate purpose Rewas Ports Limited (10% p.a.) 30 30 Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited (9% p.a.) 184 Dalmia Power Limited (9% p.a.) 278 275 Particulars of investments made (Amount in H) Sl. Name of the Investee Investments made during the Outstanding balance No. financial year as at 2018-19 2017-18 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 1 Commercial papers 49 2 Corporate bonds 184 135 42. Pursuant to the purchase of 15% equity shareholding of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited (DCBL) by the company and its subsidiary from KKR Maurtius Cement Investments Limited (KKR), the Company could place the share held by KKR in the Company on the terms and conditions specified In the placement letter agreement (PLA) and receive certain proceeds thereof. This was approved by the Board of the company on 15th Jan, 2016 and by its shareholders in their EGM held on 11th Feb, 2016 The Board of the Company vide its meeting held on 20th Apr 2017 approved the placement of shares. Accordingly, KKR placed its shares with third party investors on 21st Apr, 2017 in the PLA. As a result of such placement, an aggregate amount of H588 crs has been received by the Company and its subsidiary, from KKR on 28th Apr 2017. The said Transaction has been accounted for as per the applicable accounting standard by reducing the said amount from the purchase price of equity shareholding of DCBL in the books of the Company and its subsidiary. 196 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Standalone Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 43. The Company has spent amount on corporate social responsibility expenses as below: (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Gross amount required to be spent during the year 1 1 Amount spent during the year Construction/acquisition of any asset On purposes other than above 1 1 44. Segment Information Management service charge is the only identifiable operating segment of the Company, Further, the entire sales of the Company are affected in the domestic market hence there is only one reportable geographical segment i.e. India. Hence no other disclosures are required in terms of Ind AS-108 ('Operating Segments') 45. Figures have been recasted/restated wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s presentation. As per our report of even date For S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dalmia Bharat Limited Firm Registration No. 000756N Chartered Accountants Sunil Wahal Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Partner Managing Director Managing Director Membership No.: 087294 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 Annual Report 2018-19 | 197 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 198 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Independent Auditors’ Report To The Members of Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence Opinion we have obtained, and the audit evidence obtained by the We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial other auditors in terms of their reports referred to in ‘Other statements of Dalmia Bharat Limited (formerly known Matters’ paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate to as Odisha Cement Limited) (“the Company” or “Holding provide a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated Company”) and its subsidiaries including step down financial statements. subsidiaries (the Company and its subsidiaries including step down subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”) and Emphasis of Matter its joint venture company, which comprise the consolidated a. We draw attention to Note 3(e) to the accompanying balance sheet as at March 31, 2019, the consolidated consolidated financial statements for the year ended statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive March 31, 2019 which describes that the Group had income), the consolidated statement of changes in equity and recognised goodwill arisen on giving impact of such the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended Schemes from the appointed dates which is being on that date, and a summary of the significant accounting amortised over a period of 4 to 10 years in accordance policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter with the provisions of respective Schemes from the referred to as “the consolidated financial statements”). respective appointed dates, approved by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Chennai Bench. As a In our opinion and to the best of our information and result of above amortisation of goodwill, profit before tax according to the explanations given to us and based on the for the year ended March 31, 2019 is lower by H420 Crore. consideration of reports of the other auditors on separate financial statements of the subsidiaries including step down b. We draw attention to Note 49 to the accompanying subsidiaries and its Joint venture company referred to in consolidated financial statements, as noticed by the the other matters section below, the aforesaid consolidated Subsidiary Company “Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited” financial statements give the information required by the (DCBL) during the year ended March 31, 2019, the DCBL’s Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required and depository participant fraudulently transferred the DCBL’s give a true and fair view in conformity with Indian Accounting mutual funds aggregating to H344 crores (value as on Standards (‘Ind AS’) prescribed under Section 133 of the December 31, 2018 and carried as current investments Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) as on March 31, 2019 at same value) from the DCBL’s Rules, 2015, as amended and other accounting principles demat account(s) to its own account, its directors and its generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs associates for pledging the same with its clearing agent as of the Group as at March 31, 2019, its consolidated profit, collateral. DCBL has filed complaints with the Securities consolidated total comprehensive income, consolidated and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and the Economic changes in equity and its consolidated cash flows for the year Offences Wing, Delhi (EOW) against the depository ended on that date. participant and others for cheating and forgery and EOW directed the clearing agent not to sell, purchase, transfer, Basis for Opinion alienate, redeem / deal with the aforesaid mutual fund We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial units. Further, SEBI vide its ad interim ex-parte order has statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing directed the depository participant and other noticees, (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our not to dispose of or alienate any assets, whether movable responsibilities under those Standards are further described in or immovable or to create or invoke or release any the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the consolidated interest or charge in any of such assets except with the financial statements section of our report. We are independent prior permission of SEBI /National Stock Exchange(NSE). of the Group and its joint venture Company in accordance DCBL has decided to appoint an independent firm of with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered accountants to conduct investigation in the matter. DCBL Accountants of India (ICAI) together with the independence is fully confident of recovering its securities based on requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated the legal opinion obtained in the matter to the effect that financial statements under the provisions of the Act and the there is a strong chance of getting its securities returned, Rules made thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical hence no provision is required to be made in the books of Annual Report 2018-19 | 199 accounts. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we c. We draw attention to Note 44 to the accompanying are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in consolidated financial statements regarding the this regard. dispute between the minority shareholder and one of the subsidiary Company “Calcom Cement India Responsibility of the Management and those charged with Limited“. The matter, which is more fully described in Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements the said note, was referred for arbitration by the National The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’), Guwahati Bench (earlier the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect Company Law Board, Kolkata) via order dated January to preparation of these consolidated financial statements 5, 2017 and the application filed under Section 8 of the that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 was allowed. The position, consolidated financial performance, consolidated order of the NCLT has been challenged by the Bawri total comprehensive income, consolidated changes in group before Honourable High Court of Guwahati in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group including February 2017. Interim Order Issued by Honourable High its joint venture company in accordance with the Ind AS Court of Guwahati in the said appeal has been vacated and other accounting principles generally accepted in by the Honourable Supreme Court in May 2017 and the India. The respective Board of Directors of the companies appeals are pending adjudication before Honourable included in the Group and of its joint venture company are High Court at Guwahati. The issues between the parties responsible for maintenance of the adequate accounting are pending adjudication before the Arbitral Tribunal. records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for Pending final resolution of the matter, no adjustments safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing are considered necessary in these consolidated financial and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and statement. application of appropriate accounting policies; making Our Opinion is not qualified in respect of the above matters. judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate Key Audit Matters: internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting judgment and in the judgment of the component auditors, records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair financial statements of the current period. These matters view and are free from material misstatement, whether due were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated to fraud or error which have been used for the purpose of financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion preparation of the consolidated financial statements by the thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid. matters. Key audit matters identified by us and the component In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the auditors (as stated in respective audit reports) refer Annexure respective Board of Directors of the companies included I attached herewith to this report. in the Group and its joint venture company are responsible Information Other than the Consolidated Financial for assessing the ability of the Group and of its joint venture Statements and Auditor’s Report Thereon company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the applicable, matters related to going concern and using the other information. The other information comprises the going concern basis of accounting unless management either information included in the Annual Report 2018-19 but does intends to liquidate the Group and its joint venture company not include the consolidated financial statements and our or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to auditor’s report thereon. do so. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not The respective Board of Directors of the companies included cover the other information and we do not express any form in the Group and of its joint venture company are also of assurance conclusion thereon. responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group and of its joint venture company. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated and, in doing so, consider whether such other information Financial Statements is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole otherwise appears to be materially misstated. are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 200 | Dalmia Bharat Limited opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance statements represent the underlying transactions and but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are financial information of the entities or business activities considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they within the Group and its joint venture company to express could reasonably be expected to influence the economic an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated We are responsible for the direction, supervision and financial statements. performance of the audit of the standalone/ consolidated As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise financial statements of such entities included in the professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism consolidated financial statements of which we are throughout the audit. We also: the independent auditors. For the other entities or business activities included in the consolidated financial • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement statements, which have been audited by the other of the consolidated financial statements, whether due auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures direction, supervision and performance of the audits responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that carried out by them. We remain solely responsible for our is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from We communicate with those charged with governance error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including control. any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. • Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures We also provide those charged with governance with a that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under section statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing requirements regarding independence, and to communicate our opinion on whether the Company and its subsidiary with them all relationships and other matters that may companies including step down subsidiaries and joint reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and venture company which are companies incorporated in where applicable, related safeguards. India, has adequate internal financial controls system in From the matters communicated with those charged with place and the operating effectiveness of such controls. governance, we determine those matters that were of • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and statements of the current period and are therefore the key related disclosures made by management. audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, of the going concern basis of accounting and, based we determine that a matter should not be communicated in on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material our report because the adverse consequences of doing so uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group benefits of such communication. and its joint venture company to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, Other Matters we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report i. We did not audit the financial statements/financial to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial information of twenty-five (25) subsidiaries/step down statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to subsidiaries whose financial statements/financial modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the information reflect total assets of H2,212 Crore as at March audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 31, 2019; as well as the total revenue of H1,498 Crore for report. However, future events or conditions may cause the year ended March 31, 2019, total comprehensive the Group and it’s joint venture company to cease to income of H219 crore and net cash flow amounting to continue as a going concern. H22 Crore for the year ended March 31, 2019, as considered • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content in these consolidated financial statements. These of the consolidated financial statements, including the financial statements and other financial information have disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial been audited by other auditors whose audit reports for Annual Report 2018-19 | 201 the year ended March 31, 2019 have been furnished to us the directors of the Company as on March 31, 2019 taken by the management, and our opinion on the consolidated on record by the Board of Directors of the Company and financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amount its subsidiaries incorporated in India and the reports of the and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries/ statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies/step down step down subsidiaries and our report in terms of subsubsidiaries and joint venture company incorporated section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, insofar as it relates in India, none of the directors of the Group and its joint to the aforesaid subsidiaries/step down subsidiaries, is venture company is disqualified as on March 31, 2019 based solely on the report of the other auditors. from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act; ii. The consolidated financial statements also include the Group’s share of profit including other comprehensive f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial income of H0 Crore for the year ended March 31, 2019 controls over financial reporting and the operating in respect of a joint venture, whose financial statements effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate have been considered on the basis of the management Report in “Annexure A” which is based on the auditor’s certified accounts in these consolidated financial reports of the Group and its joint venture Company statement. Our report on the consolidated financial incorporated in India. Our report expresses a modified statements, to the extent it concerns this joint venture opinion due to modified opinion in one of the material company, for the year ended March 31, 2019 is based subsidiary on the adequacy and operating effectiveness solely on the management certified financial statements. of the internal financial control over financial reporting for This joint venture company is not considered material to reasons stated therein. the Group. g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the year Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements above ended March 31, 2019 has been paid / provided by the and our report on the Other Legal and Regulatory Requirement Holding Company to their directors in accordance with below, is not modified in respect of above maters with respect the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V to the to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other Act; auditors. h) With respect to the other matters to be included in the Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended and on the considerations of the reports of the other auditors in our opinion and to the best of our information and on separate financial statements of the subsidiaries including according to the explanations given to us; step down subsidiary referred to in the Other Matters i. The consolidated financial statement discloses the paragraph above we report, to the extent applicable, that: impact of pending litigations as at March 31, 2019 a) We have sought and obtained all the information and on the consolidated financial position of the Group explanations which to the best of our knowledge and and its Joint venture company -Refer Note 34 to the belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the consolidated financial statements; aforesaid consolidated financial statements; ii. The Group and its joint venture Company did not b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required by have any material foreseeable losses on long term law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated contracts including derivative contracts; and financial statements have been kept so far as it appears iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, from our examination of those books; required to be transferred, to the Investor Education c) The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated and Protection Fund by the Company and its subsidiary statement of profit and loss including (including other companies including step down subsidiaries and a comprehensive income), consolidated statement of joint venture company incorporated in India. changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose ICAI Firm registration number: 000756N of preparation of the consolidated financial statements; Chartered Accountants d) In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial Sunil Wahal statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Date: May 09, 2019  Partner Section 133 of the Act; Place: New Delhi  Membership No: 087294 e) On the basis of the written representations received from 202 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Annexure – 1 of the Auditors’ Report on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 dated May 09, 2019 S. Component Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit No. matters 1 Dalmia Cement Impairment Assessment of Carrying Value of Goodwill (as described in note 3(e) of the consolidated (Bharat) Limited financial statements) (“DCBL”) (a) The DCBL is carrying goodwill arisen on • For performing the impairment (Subsidiary giving impact of scheme of arrangement and testing, the DCBL has used discounted Company) amalgamations relating to slump exchange of cash flows method to determine the Undertakings of Odisha Cement Limited on going recoverable amount, these discounted concern basis; and Amalgamation of Adwetha cash, flow calculations use five-year Cement Holdings Limited with the Company during projection those are based on annual the financial year ended March 31, 2018 forecasts and present trends. We have evaluated that the assumptions used by (b) The DCBL is also carrying Goodwill arisen on the management to determine whether Amalgamation of Adhunik Cement Limited and they are in line with the present trend Adhunik MSP Cement (Assam) Limited. As per the and information available. scheme of Arrangement, excess of net assets taken over cost of investment in transferor companies • We have assessed the valuation aggregating to H21 Crore has been recorded as methodology used by the valuer and its Goodwill. professional competence and expertise. As required under Ind AS 36 goodwill arising on such • We understood the internal controls Schemes of Arrangement and Amalgamation is for the goodwill impairment process required to be tested for impairment on annual basis. including the determination of assumptions used within the models The estimated recoverable amount of the goodwill is to assess the recoverable amount of calculated as the higher of the value -in-use or fair goodwill. value less costs to dispose, which involves significant estimates, assumptions and judgements on future • We have assessed the disclosures growth rates, discount rates etc. included in Note 3(e) to the consolidated Ind AS financial statements. Considering the significance of the matter and various judgement involved, we have identified this as a Key Audit Matter. 2. DCBL and Accumulation of MAT Credit Entitlement aggregating to H266 Crore (refer note 16 of the consolidated Calcom Cement financial statement) India Limited These Companies are carrying MAT credit entitlement • We and respective statutory auditors (“CCIL”) (step aggregating to H266 crores as at March 31, 2019. MAT of CCIL have carried out testing of down subsidiary credit entitlement has a limited period for utilization i.e. the design and implementation as (subsidiary of 15 years from the date such amount is available. well as operating effectiveness of key DCBL) controls related to the calculation and Both the above-mentioned Companies ability to recognition of such MAT credit. recognize these MAT credit assets is assessed by the management at the end of each reporting period, taking • We and respective statutory auditors of into account forecasts of future taxable profits and the CCIL have assessed the methodology law and jurisdiction of the present Income Tax Laws applied by the Company with current and Regulations in force. The assumptions on these accounting standards and applicable projections are determined by the management. taxation laws along with the future business forecast of taxable profits. Given the degree of judgment involved in making a forecast of the profitability of the Companies and • We and respective statutory auditors the materiality of the amounts involved, we have of CCIL have assessed the likelihood of determined this to be a key audit matter. the companies to utilize the available MAT credit entitlement in the future with Annual Report 2018-19 | 203 S. Component Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matters No. underlying projections and assumptions relating to future estimated profits, future capitalization and depreciation allowance thereon and future estimates of taxable profits. • We and respective statutory auditors of CCIL have evaluated the ageing of the carry forward MAT credit entitlement of the Company. • We and respective statutory auditors of CCIL have evaluated the disclosures included in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. 3. DCBL and Trade receivables, subsidies receivable from Government agencies and advances to vendors Calcom Cement (as described in note 45(c) to the consolidated Financial Statements) India Limited These companies have trade receivables, • We and respective statutory auditor of CCIL have (“CCIL”) (step subsidies receivable from Government evaluated the various correspondences made down subsidiary (subsidiary of agencies and advances to vendors. These with the parties and other follow up actions DCBL) companies have taken necessary steps taken by the companies, including but not limited including legal action, wherever applicable, for to legal process, meetings, notices etc. the recovery of these balances. • We and respective statutory auditor of CCIL have Based on past experience of realisation and read and evaluated the legal advice / opinions steps taken by the companies, it is confident obtained by the companies in respect of of recovery of these balances in due course. recoverability of amounts, wherever applicable. Considering the amount involved of such • We and respective statutory auditor of CCIL have receivables, this matter has been considered evaluated the underlying documents against significant for audit. which these amounts are paid / accrued as per eligibility criteria. • We and respective statutory auditor of CCIL have obtained the representation from the management. • In respect of subsidies receivables, we have evaluated that the period of realisation considered by the companies is in line with the past trends. 4. Dalmia DSP Accounting Treatment for the effect of the Resolution Plan Limited Refer Note 34(f) to the consolidated financial (a) We have performed the following procedures (formerly known statements for the details regarding the to determine whether the effect of Resolution as Kalyanpur Cement Limited) resolution plan implemented in the Subsidiary Plan has been appropriately recognised in the Company Dalmia DSP Limited (formerly known standalone/consolidated financial statements : as Kalyanpur Cement Limited) Pursuant to • Reviewed management’s process for review a Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process implementation of the Resolution Plan. concluded during the year under insolvency and Bankruptcy code, 2016. • Reviewed the provisions of the Resolution plan to understand the requirements of the Prior to approval of the Resolution Plan said Plan and evaluated the possible impact on dated January 22, 2018, the subsidiary of the same on the standalone/consolidated company had outstanding credit facilities financial statement. from several institution and had outstanding operational creditors. 204 | Dalmia Bharat Limited S. Component Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matters No. 4. Dalmia DSP Owing to the size of over-due facilities, • Verified the balances of liabilities as on the Limited multiplicity of contractual arrangement and large date of approval of Resolution Plan from (formerly known number of operational creditors, determination supporting documents the computation as Kalyanpur of the carrying amount of related liabilities at the on a test check basis. Cement Limited) date of approval of the Resolution Plan was a • Verified the underlying documents complex exercise. supporting the receipt and payment of Further, comprehending the provision of fund as per Resolution Plan. the Resolution Plan and determining the • Tested the implementation of provisions appropriateness of the accounting treatment of the Resolution Plan in computation of thereof, more particularly the accounting balance of liabilities owed to financial and treatment of derecognition of liabilities, operational creditors. required significant judgement and estimates, including estimates, including consideration of • Evaluated whether the accounting the accounting principles to be applied for the principles applied by the management presentation of difference between carrying fairly present the effects of the Resolution amount of novated debt and consideration paid Plan in financial statements in accordance therefor. with the principles of Ind AS. Accounting for the effect of the resolution plan • Tested the related disclosures made in is considered by us to be a matter of most notes to the standalone/consolidated significance due to its importance to intended financial statements in respect of the user’s understanding of the financial statements implementation of the resolution plan. as a whole and materiality thereof. Annual Report 2018-19 | 205 Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of Dalmia Bharat Limited (formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) dated May 09, 2019 on its Consolidated Financial Statements Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) as referred to in paragraph 2(f) of ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section. Our reporting on the internal financial control with reference of internal financial controls, and, both issued by the Institute to consolidated financial statement is not applicable in of ICAI. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that respect of two step down subsidiaries incorporated outside we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform India. the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting statement of Dalmia Bharat Limited (formerly known as was established and maintained and if such controls operated Odisha Cement Limited) as of and for the year ended March effectively in all material respects. 31, 2019, we have audited the Internal Financial Controls Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit over Financial Reporting of Dalmia Bharat Limited (formerly evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial known as Odisha Cement Limited) (hereinafter referred to as controls system over financial reporting and their operating “the Company” or “Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries/ effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over stepdown subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”) and its joint internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing venture company all incorporated in India, for the year ended the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and on that date. evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected The respective Board of Directors of the Holding Company, depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment its subsidiaries/step down subsidiaries and its joint venture of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated company which are companies incorporated in India, are financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the controls based on the internal control over financial reporting audit evidence obtained by the other auditors in terms of their criteria established by the Holding Company, its subsidiaries/ reports referred to in the Other Matters paragraph below, is step down subsidiaries and its joint venture company sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our modified considering the essential components of internal control stated audit opinion on the Group’s and its joint venture company’s in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls internal financial controls system over financial reporting. Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). These responsibilities include Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate Reporting internal financial controls that were operating effectively for A company's internal financial control over financial reporting ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance including adherence to the respective companies policies, regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection preparation of consolidated financial statements for external of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable principles. A company's internal financial control over financial financial information, as required under the Act. reporting includes those policies and procedures that: a) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable Auditors’ Responsibility detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Group and dispositions of the assets of the company; its joint venture company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting based on our audit. b) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance consolidated financial statements in accordance with Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial generally accepted accounting principles, and that Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on receipts and expenditures of the company are being made Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed under only in accordance with authorizations of management section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit and directors of the company; and 206 | Dalmia Bharat Limited c) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention effects of the material weakness described above on the or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, the disposition of the company's assets that could have a material Group’s internal financial controls over financial reporting with effect on the consolidated financial statements. reference to these consolidated financial statements were operating effectively as of March 31, 2019. Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting Explanatory paragraph Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial We have also audited, in accordance with the Standards on controls over financial reporting, including the possibility Auditing issued by ICAI, as specified under Section 143(10) of collusion or improper management override of controls, of the Act, the consolidated financial statements of the Group material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and & its joint venture, which comprise the consolidated balance not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the sheet as at March 31, 2019, and the consolidated statement internal financial controls over financial reporting to future of profit and loss, consolidated statement of changes in periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control equity and consolidated cash flow statement for the year over financial reporting may become inadequate because of then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with and other explanatory information. This material weakness the policies or procedures may deteriorate. was considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the March 31, 2019 Qualified Opinion consolidated financial statements of the Group and its joint According to the information and explanations given to us venture and this report does not affect our report dated May and based on our audit and on the report of the joint auditors/ 9, 2019, which expressed an unmodified opinion on those other auditors, the following material weakness has been consolidated financial statements. identified in the operating effectiveness of one of the material subsidiary of the Company i.e. DCBL with reference to its Other Matters standalone financial statements as at March 31, 2019. a. Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal Read with paragraph (b) of Emphasis of Matters of our financial controls over financial reporting with reference Auditors’ Report and note 49 to the consolidated financial to these consolidated financial statements insofar statements, DCBL’s internal control system for existence and as it relates to twenty three subsidiaries/step down verification of investments in Mutual Fund Units maintained subsidiaries, which are companies incorporated in India, in Demat Accounts were not operating effectively during the is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of current financial year to detect the lapses on timely basis, such companies. which could potentially result in material misstatement of carrying value of such investments. b. Our aforesaid reports under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Based on verification, subsequently and as represented by the internal controls over financial reporting does not cover Management of DCBL, necessary remedial measures have in so far as it relates to one jointly controlled entity, since been taken to strengthen the controls. which is company, incorporated in India, as the financial A ‘material weakness’ is a deficiency, or a combination statements of this joint venture company is management of deficiencies, in internal financial control over financial certified. This joint venture company is not material to the reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a Group. material misstatement of the company's annual or interim Our audit report on the adequacy and operating effectiveness financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a of the internal financial controls over financial reporting is not timely basis. modified in respect of above matters. In our opinion, the Group and its joint venture company has, in all material respects, maintained adequate internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company these consolidated financial statements as of March 31, ICAI Firm registration number: 000756N 2019, based on the internal control over financial reporting Chartered Accountants criteria established by the Group & its joint venture company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Sunil Wahal Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Date: May 09, 2019  Partner Chartered Accountants of India, and except for the possible Place: New Delhi  Membership No: 087294 Annual Report 2018-19 | 207 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2019 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise (Amount in H) Notes As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 2A 9,086 9,125 Capital work-in-progress 2B 501 173 Investment properties 3 (a) 0 0 Goodwill and other intangible assets 3 (b) 4,487 4,912 Intangible assets under development 3 (c) 19 0 Biological assets other than bearer plants 3 (d) 0 0 Investments 4 107 93 Financial assets 5 (i) Investments 2 4 (ii) Loans 10 10 (iii) Other financial assets 449 630 Income tax assets 6 91 68 Other non-current assets 7 382 129 15,134 15,144 Current assets Inventories 8 1,032 779 Financial assets 9 (i) Investments 2,315 3,408 (ii) Trade receivables 549 564 (iii) Cash and cash equivalents 280 315 (iv) Bank balance other than (iii) above 189 39 (v) Loans 41 85 (vi) Other financial assets 646 734 Income tax assets 10 0 25 Other current assets 11A 351 241 Assets held for sale 11B 1 0 5,404 6,190 Total assets 20,538 21,334 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Equity share capital 12A 39 Share capital suspense account 12B 6,654 Other equity 13 10,600 3,681 10,639 10,335 Non controlling interest 11 (30) Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities 14 (i) Borrowings 4,015 5,459 (ii) Other financial liabilities 6 7 Provisions 15 172 84 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 16 1,279 1,393 Government grants 17 119 120 5,591 7,063 Current liabilities Financial liabilities 18 (i) Borrowings 908 863 (ii) Trade payables total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 6 6 total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises 871 922 (iii) Other financial liabilities 1,682 1,584 Government grants 17 10 22 Other current liabilities 19 681 498 Provisions 20(a) 88 69 Current tax liabilities 20(b) 51 2 4,297 3,966 Total equity and liabilities 20,538 21,334 Significant accounting policies 1 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. As per our report of even date For S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dalmia Bharat Limited Firm Registration No. 000756N Chartered Accountants Sunil Wahal Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Partner Managing Director Managing Director Membership No.: 087294 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 208 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Statement of Consolidated Profit and Loss for the year ended March 31, 2019 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise (Amount in H) Notes For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Income Revenue from operations 21 9,484 8,827 Other income 22 244 274 Total Income (I) 9,728 9,101 Expenses Cost of raw materials consumed 23 1,794 1,343 Purchase of stock in trade 138 166 Change in inventories of finished goods, work in progress and stock in trade 24 (147) 18 Excise duty on sale of goods 247 Employee benefits expenses 25 648 609 Finance costs 26 Interest cost 504 601 Other finance cost (Including foreign currency fluctuation) 47 92 Foreign currency fluctuation on borrowings etc. (net) 15 Depreciation and amortisation expenses 2&3 1,296 1,213 Power and fuel 1,756 1,405 Freight charges on finished goods 1,598 1,413 on internal clinker transfer 231 200 Other expenses 27 1,524 1,390 Total expenses (II) 9,389 8,712 Profit before tax (I-II) 339 389 Tax expense 16 Current tax 112 108 Deferred tax/ (Credit) (119) 17 Current income tax for earlier years (5) (28) Deferred tax for earlier years 2 1 Total tax expense (10) 98 Profit/ (loss) after tax before share of profit in associates, joint venture and non controlling interest 349 291 Add: Share of profit in associates and joint venture 0 0 Profit after tax (A) 349 291 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 308 292 Non controlling interests 41 (1) Other comprehensive income A (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Re-measurement gains on defined benefit plans (32) 5 Fair value gain on investments 29 442 (ii) Income tax relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 16 29 (2) B (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss Cumulative translation difference 1 3 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (B) 27 448 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 27 448 Non controlling interests (0) (0) Total comprehensive income for the year (A+B) 376 739 Total comprehensive income for the year Equity holders of the parent 335 740 Non controlling interests 41 (1) Earning per share 28 Basic Earnings Per Share (In Rupees) 15.97 15.18 [Nominal Value of Share Rupees 2 (Rupees 2) each] Diluted Earnings Per Share (In Rupees) 15.95 15.10 [Nominal Value of Share Rupees 2 (Rupees 2) each] Significant accounting policies 1 The accompanying notes form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. As per our report of even date For S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dalmia Bharat Limited Firm Registration No. 000756N Chartered Accountants Sunil Wahal Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Partner Managing Director Managing Director Membership No.: 087294 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 Annual Report 2018-19 | 209 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March 31, 2019 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 A. Cash flow from operating activities Net profit before tax 339 389 Adjustments Depreciation/amortisation 1,296 1,213 Provision for doubtful debts/advances 4 3 Bad debts written off 1 2 Expenses on Employees Stock Options Scheme 5 6 Dividend Income (14) (28) Finance costs 551 708 Interest income (150) (109) Fair value gain on investments 114 (27) (Profit)/loss on sale of investments (net) (185) (110) Assets written off/Loss on sale of property, plant & equipment 3 4 Share of profit of an associate and a joint venture 0 Operating profit before working capital changes 1,964 2,051 Adjustments for working capital changes : Inventories (253) (127) Trade Payables, Liabilities and Provisions 173 211 Trade Receivables, Loans and Advances and Other Current Assets 230 (443) Cash generated from operations 2,114 1,692 Income tax paid (24) (86) Net cash flow from operating activities 2,090 1,606 B Cash flow from / (used in) Investing Activities Purchase of property, plant & equipment and Intangible assets (1,334) (402) Proceeds from sale of property, plant & equipment 5 9 (Purchase)/ Sale of current investments (net) 1,193 (188) (Purchase)/ Sale of Non current investments (net) (12) 1 Proceeds from erstwhile shareholder of the subsidiary company 588 Fixed deposits (placed)/matured (having original maturity of more than three (149) (6) months) Interest received 123 105 Dividend received from non current investments 12 21 Dividend received from current investments 2 7 Net cash flow from/ (used) in investing activities (160) 135 C Cash flow from / (used in) financing activities Proceeds / (repayment) from Short term borrowings (net) 45 (370) Proceeds / (repayment) from Long term borrowings (net) (1,432) (403) Proceeds from issue of equity shares (ESOP) 4 4 Finance cost (542) (762) Dividend paid (Including dividend distribution tax) (40) (33) Net cash flow from / (used in) financing activities (1,965) (1,564) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) (35) 177 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 315 138 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 280 315 210 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March 31, 2019 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise Note: 1) Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities: Particulars As at Cash flows Fair value Others As at April 1, 2018 changes March 31, 2019 Non current borrowings 6,403 (1,438) (4) 9 4,970 Current borrowings (Refer note 18(i)) 863 22 23 908 Particulars As at Cash flows Fair value Others As at April 1, 2017 changes March 31, 2018 Non current borrowings 6,806 (393) (10) 6,403 Current borrowings (Refer note 18(i)) 1,233 (465) 95 863 2) Cash & cash equivalents components are as per Note 9 (iii) of these consolidated financial statements 3) Previous year figures have been regrouped/restated where ever considered necessary As per our report of even date For S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dalmia Bharat Limited Firm Registration No. 000756N Chartered Accountants Sunil Wahal Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Partner Managing Director Managing Director Membership No.: 087294 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 Annual Report 2018-19 | 211 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Consolidated Statement of Change in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2019 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise a. Equity Share Capital: Equity shares of H2 each issued, subscribed and fully paid No. of Shares (H) As at April 01, 2017 Issue of share capital As at March 31, 2018 212 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Issue of share capital other than ESOP 19,27,27,553 39 ESOP issued during the year 2,31,000 0 As at March 31, 2019 19,29,58,553 39 b. Share capital suspense account: (H) As at April 01, 2017 6654 Issue of share capital As at March 31, 2018 6654 Issue of share capital 6654 As at March 31, 2019 c. Other equity:  (Amount in H) Particulars Attributable to Owners of the Company Attributable Total Other Reserve and Surplus Other comprehensive income Total Other to Non equity Securities Capital General Reserve Debenture Retained Employee Currency Fair Re-measurement equity controlling premium reserve reserve fund as redemption earnings stock translation valuation of post attributable interest per RBI reserve option reserve gain on employment to Owners of investments benefit obligation the Company As at April 01, 2017 1,076 279 3 0 378 1,192 12 (2) 40 (3) 2,975 (29) 2,946 Profit/ (Loss) for the year 292 292 (1) 291 Other comprehensive income 3 442 3 448 (0) 448 Total comprehensive income 292 3 442 3 740 (1) 739 Add: Addition during the year (1) (0) (0) 38 2 39 39 Less: released during the year (2) (0) (131) (133) (133) Add: Amount transferred 131 131 131 from debenture redemption reserve Less: Appropriations Transfer to debenture (38) (38) (38) redemption reserve Dividend paid (27) (27) (27) Dividend distribution tax (6) (6) (6) As at March 31, 2018 1,075 277 3 (0) 285 1,544 14 1 482 0 3,681 (30) 3,651 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Consolidated Statement of Change in Equity for the year ended March 31, 2019 All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise Particulars Attributable to Owners of the Company Attributable Total Reserve and Surplus Other comprehensive income Total Other to Non Other Securities Capital General Reserve Debenture Retained Employee Currency Fair Reequity controlling equity premium reserve reserve fund as redemption earnings stock option transvaluation measurement attributable interest per RBI reserve outstanding lation gain on of post to Owners reserve investments employment of the benefit Company obligation Profit/ (Loss) for the year 308 308 41 349 Other comprehensive income 1 29 (3) 27 (0) 27 Total comprehensive income 308 1 29 (3) 335 41 376 Add: Addition during the year 6,624 (0) 0 27 (0) 6,651 6,651 Less: released during the year (62) (62) (62) Add: Amount transferred from 62 62 62 debenture redemption reserve Less: Appropriations Transferred to debenture (27) (27) (27) redemption reserve Transferred to general (0) (0) (0) reserve Dividend paid (33) (33) (33) Dividend distribution tax (7) (7) (7) As at March 31, 2019 7,699 277 3 (0) 250 1,847 14 2 511 (3) 10,600 11 10,611 For description of the purposes of each reserve within equity, refer note 13 of these consolidated financial statements. As per our report of even date For S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dalmia Bharat Limited Firm Registration No. 000756N Chartered Accountants Sunil Wahal Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Partner Managing Director Managing Director Membership No.: 087294 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 Annual Report 2018-19 | 213 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Significant Accounting Policies A. Corporate Information Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) is a public company domiciled in India and incorporated under the provisions of the Companies Act. The Group is engaged in the manufacturing and selling of cement. The registered office of the Company is located at Dalmiapuram Distt Tiruchirappalli Tamil Nadu621651. The Company in the previous year had accounted for Scheme of Amalgamation sanctioned by the NCLT, Division Bench, Chennai, Erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited (DBL) (Transferor Company) amalgamated with Odisha Cement Limited (Transferee Company) with the appointed date as January 1, 2015 and subsequently the Transferee Company was renamed from Odisha Cement Limited to Dalmia Bharat Limited , with effect from October 30, 2018. The Consolidated financial statement relate to Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) (hereinafter referred as the “Company/ Parent”) and its Subsidiaries/ step down subsidiaries, Associate and Joint Venture (hereinafter collectively referred as the “Group”). The financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2019 were authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors on May 09, 2019. B. Basis of preparation of financial statements Statement of compliance The Consolidated financial statements (CFS) of the Group have been prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (‘Ind AS’) specified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 (as amended from time to time) and guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Board of India(‘SEBI’), as applicable. The Consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an accrual basis and under the historical cost convention, except for the following assets and liabilities which have been measured at fair value: Derivative financial instruments Investment in mutual funds measured at fair value regarding financial instruments Share based payments and Certain financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupee (H) and all the values are rounded off to the nearest Crores, except number of shares, face value of share, earning per share or wherever otherwise indicated. Wherever the amount represented H '0' (zero) construes value less than Rupees fifty lakhs. C. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures as at March 31, 2019. Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Specifically, the Group controls an investee if and only if the Group has: Power over the investee (i.e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee) Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its returns Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights result in control. To support this presumption and when the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the investee Rights arising from other contractual arrangements The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights The size of the group’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of the holdings of the other voting rights holders The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes 214 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements to one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements from the date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. Consolidated Ind AS financial statements are prepared using uniform accounting policies for like transactions and other events in similar circumstances. If a member of the group uses accounting policies other than those adopted in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements for like transactions and events in similar circumstances, appropriate adjustments are made to that group member’s financial statements in preparing the consolidated Ind AS financial statements to ensure conformity with the group’s accounting policies. The financial statements of all entities used for the purpose of consolidation are drawn up to same reporting date as that of the parent company, i.e., year ended on March 31. When the end of the reporting period of the parent is different from that of a subsidiary, the subsidiary prepares, for consolidation purposes, additional financial information as of the same date as the financial statements of the parent to enable the parent to consolidate the financial information of the subsidiary, unless it is impracticable to do so. Consolidation procedure: Combine like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent with those of its subsidiaries. For this purpose, income and expenses of the subsidiary are based on the amounts of the assets and liabilities recognised in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements at the acquisition date. Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the parent’s investment in each subsidiary and the parent’s portion of equity of each subsidiary. Business combinations policy explains how to account for any related goodwill Eliminate in full intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between entities of the group (profits or losses resulting from intragroup transactions that are recognised in assets, such as inventory and property, plant and equipment, are eliminated in full). Intragroup losses may indicate an impairment that requires recognition in the consolidated financial statements. Ind AS12 Income Taxes applies to temporary differences that arise from the elimination of profits and losses resulting from intragroup transactions. Associates are all entities over which the company has significant influence but not control or joint control. This is generally the case where the group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, after initially being recognised at cost. Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method, after initially being recognised at cost in the consolidated balance sheet. Equity Method Under the equity method of accounting, the investments are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of the investee in profit and loss, and the group’s share of other comprehensive income of the investee in other comprehensive income. Dividends received or receivable from associates and joint ventures are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment. When the group’s share of losses in an equity-accounted investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the other entity. Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the group’s interest in these entities. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of equity accounted investees have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group. Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation. A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Annual Report 2018-19 | 215 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Group loses control over a subsidiary, it: Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of the subsidiary Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling interests Derecognises the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity Recognises the fair value of the consideration received Recognises the fair value of any investment retained Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss Reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously recognised in OCI to profit or loss or retained earnings, as appropriate, as would be required if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities Business combinations Acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in each business combination is measured at the aggregate of the acquisition date fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquire. D. Goodwill on consolidation Goodwill represents the difference between the Group’s share in the net worth of the investee companies and the cost of acquisition at the date of investment. For this purpose, the Groups’ share of equity in the investee companies is determined on the basis of the latest financial statements of the respective companies available as on the date of acquisition, after making necessary adjustments for material events between the date of such financial statements and the date of acquisition. E. Classification of assets and liabilities into current/non-current The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current/ non-current classification. An asset is treated as current when it is: (i) Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in normal operating cycle (ii) Held primarily for the purpose of trading (iii) Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting period, or (iv) Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period All other assets are classified as non-current. A liability is current when: (i) It is expected to be settled in normal operating cycle (ii) It is held primarily for the purpose of trading (iii) It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting period, or (iv) There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period The group classifies all other liabilities as non-current. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities. The operating cycle is the time between the acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents. The Group has identified twelve months as its operating cycle. F. Foreign currency translation Foreign currency transactions and balances The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees, which is also the parent Company’s functional currency. For each entity the Group determines the functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency. The Group uses the direct method of consolidation and on disposal of a foreign operation the gain or loss that is reclassified to profit or loss reflects the amount that arises from using this method. 216 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Foreign currency transactions are recorded, on initial recognition in the functional currency, by applying to the foreign currency amount the spot exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange at the reporting date. Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in Statement of consolidated profit or loss. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. The gain or loss arising on translation of nonmonetary items measured at fair value is treated in line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss are also recognised in profit or loss). In accordance with Ind AS 101, exchange differences arising on long-term foreign currency monetary items related to acquisition of a fixed asset are capitalised and depreciated over the remaining useful life of such asset Exchange rate differences arising on other long term foreign currency monetary items are accumulated in the 'Foreign Currency Monetary Item Translation Difference Account' and amortised over the remaining life of concerned monetary item. Foreign Operations The assets and liabilities, including goodwill and any fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation whose functional currency is not the Indian Rupee, are translated by using the closing rate. The exchange differences arising on the translation are recorded in other comprehensive income under “Foreign currency translation”. On the partial or total disposal of a foreign entity with a loss of control, the related share in the cumulative translation differences recorded in equity is recognized in the statement of income. In accordance with Ind AS 101, cumulative currency translation differences for all foreign operations are deemed to be zero at the date of transition, viz April 1, 2015. Gain or loss on a subsequent disposal of any foreign operation excludes translation differences that arose before the date of transition but includes only differences arising after the transition date. G. Fair value measurement Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either: In the principal market for the asset or liability, or In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Group. The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest. A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable Annual Report 2018-19 | 217 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. External valuers are involved for valuation of significant assets, such as property, plant and equipment, financial guarantee received from the holding Company. The management selects external valuer on various criteria such as market knowledge, reputation, independence and whether professional standards are maintained by valuer. The management decides, after discussions with the Group’s external valuers, which valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case. At each reporting date, the management analyses the movements in the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured or re-assessed as per the Group’s accounting policies. For this analysis, the management verifies the major inputs applied in the latest valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation to contracts and other relevant documents. The management, in conjunction with the Group’s external valuers, also compares the change in the fair value of each asset and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the change is reasonable. On an interim basis, the management and the Group’s external valuers present the valuation results to the Audit Committee and the Group’s independent auditors. This includes a discussion of the major assumptions used in the valuations. For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above. This note summarises accounting policy for fair value. Other fair value related disclosures are given in the relevant notes. Disclosures for valuation methods, significant estimates and assumptions Quantitative disclosures of fair value measurement hierarchy Financial instruments (including those carried at amortised cost) Financial instruments (including those carried at fair value and carrying value) Property, plant and equipment carried at fair value H. Revenue recognition Revenue from contracts includes revenue with customers for sale of goods and provision of services. Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised when control of the goods and services are transferred to the customer at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods and services. The Company satisfies a performance obligation and recognises revenue over time, if one of the following criteria is met: i) The Company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternate use to the Company and the Company has as an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date. ii) The Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced. iii) The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Company’s performance as the Company performs. For performance obligations where one of the above conditions are not met, revenue is recognised at the point in time at which the performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms of payment and excluding taxes and duty. The Group assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria to determine if it is acting as principal or agent. Taxes collected on behalf of the government are excluded from revenue. Revenue is recognised to the extent it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue and costs, if applicable, can be measured reliably. Sale of goods Performance obligation in case of Revenue from sale of goods is satisfied at a point in time and is recognised when the performance obligation is satisfied and control as per Ind AS 115 is transferred to the customer. Amounts disclosed as revenue are inclusive of excise duty (upto June 30, 2017) and net of returns and allowances, trade discounts, cash discounts and volume rebates. 218 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Since the recovery of excise duty flows to the Group on its own account, revenue includes excise duty. The Company collects Goods and Service Tax (‘GST’) (w.e.f. July 1, 2017) on behalf of the Government and, therefore, these are not economic benefits flowing to the Company. Hence, they are excluded from revenue. The Group provides non-cash incentives at fair value to customers. These benefits are passed on to customers on satisfaction of various conditions of various sales schemes. Consideration received is allocated between the products sold and non-cash incentives to be issued to customers. Fair value of the non-cash incentive is determined by applying principle of Ind AS 113 i.e. at market rate. The fair value of the non-cash incentive is deferred and recognised as revenue when the associated incentive is released Revenue from services Revenue from management services are recognised as and when services are rendered. Interest Income For all debt instruments/ subsidies measured at amortised cost, interest income is recorded using the effective interest rate (EIR). EIR is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial instrument/ subsidies or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset or to the amortised cost of a financial liability. When calculating the effective interest rate, the Group estimates the expected cash flows by considering all the contractual terms of the financial instrument (for example, prepayment, extension, call and similar options) but does not consider the expected credit losses. Interest income is included in “finance income” in the statement of profit and loss. Dividends Dividend income is recognized when the Group’s right to receive dividend is established, which is generally when shareholders approve the dividend. Export incentives Export entitlements in the form of Merchandise Export from India Scheme (MEIS) are recognized in the statement of profit and loss when the right to receive credit as per the terms of the scheme is established in respect of exports made and when there is no significant uncertainty regarding the ultimate collection of the relevant export proceeds. Income arising from export incentives are included under ‘Other operating revenue’. Insurance Claim Insurance claims and other claims are accounted for to the extent the Group is reasonably certain of their ultimate collection. I. Government grants and subsidies Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with. The grant related to income are deferred and it is recognised as income on a systematic basis over the periods that the related costs, for which it is intended to compensate. The Group has chosen to present grants related to income to be deducted in reporting the related expense. Government grant relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are included in non-current liabilities as Government grant and are credited to the statement of profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the useful lives of the related assets and presented within other income. A government grant that becomes receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or for the purpose of giving immediate financial support to the respective entity with no future related costs are recognised in the statement of profit and loss of the period in which it becomes receivable. Government grants are recognised in the statement of profit and loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Group recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate. Other government grants are recognised initially as deferred revenue when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and the respective entity will comply with the conditions associated with the grant; they are then recognised in statement of profit and loss as other operating revenue on a systematic basis. J. Income Taxes Income Tax expenses comprise current tax and deferred tax charge or credit. Current Income Tax Current Tax is measured on the basis of estimated taxable income for the current accounting period in accordance with Annual Report 2018-19 | 219 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements the applicable tax rates and the provisions of the Income-tax Act, 1961 and other applicable tax laws. Current income tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or loss (either in other comprehensive income or in equity). Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associate and interests in joint venture, when the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associate and interests in joint venture, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are re-assessed at each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside statement of profit or loss is recognised outside statement of profit or loss (either in other comprehensive income or in equity). Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in OCI or directly in equity. Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority. In the situations where the Company is entitled to a tax holiday under the Income-tax Act, 1961, no deferred tax (asset or liability) is recognised in respect of temporary differences which reverse during the tax holiday period, to the extent the Company’s gross total income is subject to the deduction during the tax holiday period. Deferred tax in respect of temporary differences which reverse after the tax holiday period is recognised in the year in which the temporary differences originate. However, the Company restricts recognition of deferred tax assets to the extent it is probable that sufficient future taxable income will be available against which such deferred tax assets can be realised. For recognition of deferred taxes, the temporary differences which originate first are considered to reverse first. Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (‘MAT’) paid in accordance with the tax laws, which gives future economic benefits in the form of adjustment to future income tax liability and is considered as an asset if it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which these tax credit can be utilised. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred tax asset in the Balance Sheet when it is highly probable that future economic benefit associated with it will flow to 220 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements the Company. MAT credit is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and written down to the extent the aforesaid convincing evidence no longer exists. K. Property, plant and equipment The Group has measured property, plant and equipment except vehicle, furniture and fixture and office equipments at fair value as on transition date i.e. April 1, 2015 which has become its deemed cost. In respect of vehicle, furniture and fixture and office equipments, the Group has applied applicable Ind AS from a retrospective basis and arrived at the carrying value as per Ind AS as at April 1, 2015. Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Capital work in progress are stated at cost net of impairment loss, if any. Such cost includes the cost of replacing part of the plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. When significant parts of plant and equipment are required to be replaced at intervals, the Group depreciates them separately based on their specific useful lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in statement of profit or loss as incurred. The Group capitalise machinery spares if such spares are held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes and are expected to be used during more than one period. Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated on a straight-line basis using the rates based on estimated useful life of an asset which coincide with Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013 except in case of certain diesel generator sets and workshop appliances and lab equipment. Asset Useful Life Lease hold land 30 to 99 years Factory buildings 25 to 30 years Non-factory buildings 30 to 60 years Certain DG sets and workshop appliances 5 years Other plant and equipment 5 to 25 years Plant and equipment related to Captive Power Plant 25 years Mines related assets 4 to 8 years Office equipment End user devices such as computers 3 Years Servers and networks 6 years Vehicles Motor cycles, scooters and other mopeds 10 years Motor buses, motor lorries and motor cars other than those 8 years used in a business of running them on hire Electrical items 5 to 10 years Lab Equipment 15 years Assets of its step down subsidiary OCL China Limited House and Building 20 years Plant and Equipment 10 years Means of Transportation 4 years Electronic Equipment 3 years The Group, based on technical assessment made by technical expert and management estimate, depreciates these items of plant and equipment over estimated useful lives which are different from the useful life prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013. The management believes that these estimated useful lives are realistic and reflect fair approximation of the period over which the assets are likely to be used. Land bearing mineral reserves are amortized over their estimated commercial life based on the unit of production method. An item of property, plant and equipment and any significant part initially recognised is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of the asset (calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the income statement when the asset is derecognised. Annual Report 2018-19 | 221 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Capitalised spares are depreciated over their own estimated useful life or the remaining estimated useful life of the related asset, whichever is lower. Accelerated depreciation on property, plant and equipment discarded during the year has been provided till the period these are discarded. The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate. L. Intangible assets (i) Goodwill arising as per Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation approved by High Court/ NCLTs. a) Goodwill arisen pursuant to scheme of amalgamation and arrangement (Scheme -2) has been recognised in accordance with Scheme approved by NCLT. Said goodwill has been amortised in accordance with Scheme 2 approved by NCLT over a period of 4 years. b) Goodwill arisen pursuant to scheme of amalgamation and arrangement (Scheme -3) has been recognised in accordance with Scheme approved by NCLT. Said goodwill is initially measured, being the excess of cost of investment in ACL cancelled over net identifiable assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets, acquired pursuant to scheme 4 by way of slump exchange has been recognised in accordance with Scheme as approved by NCLT. Said goodwill and other intangible assets have been amortised in accordance with approved Scheme 4 over a period of 5 years and 10 years respectively. The subsequent measurement is at deemed cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The said goodwill is not amortised and is tested for impairment annually. (ii) Mining rights Mining rights acquired in scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement by the company has been transferred to its subsidiary DCBL by way of Merger and slump exchange has been recognised at fair value in accordance with Scheme 1 & 4 approved by NCLT. Said mining rights are amortised over their estimated commercial life based on the unit of production method. Net carrying value of mining rights as on transition date to Ind AS i.e. April 1, 2015 has been considered as deemed cost. (iii) Brands and Raw materials procurement rights acquired in scheme of Amalgamation and Arrangement by the company has been transferred to its subsidiary DCBL by way of merger and slump exchange have been recognised at fair value in accordance with Scheme 1 &4 approved by NCLT. Said intangible assets have a finite useful life and are subsequently carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis, based on the respective estimate of useful lives as given below: Type of Intangible Asset Useful life (in years) Brands 20 and 27 years Raw Materials procurement rights (other than limestone) 3.25 and 26.50 years Net carrying value of brands, clinker procurement rights and slag procurement rights as on transition date to Ind AS i.e. April 1, 2015 have been considered as deemed cost. (iv) Other intangible assets The Group has measured intangible assets at carrying value as recognised in the financial statements as on transition date i.e. April 1, 2015 which has become its deemed cost. Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses, if any. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are considered to modify the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting 222 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the statement of profit and loss unless such expenditure forms part of carrying value of another asset. Gains or losses arising from de recognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the statement of profit and loss when the asset is derecognised. The useful life of computer software is estimated as 3 years to 10 years and accordingly amortised over its useful life. Research and Development Expenditure Expenditure pertaining to research is expensed as incurred. Expenditure incurred on development is capitalised if such expenditure leads to creation of an asset, otherwise such expenditure is charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss. M. Investment properties The Group had elected to continue with the carrying value for all of its investment properties as recognised in its Indian GAAP financial statements as deemed cost at the transition date. Investment property comprises freehold land that are held for capital appreciation and recognised at cost, less impairment loss, if any. Investment properties are derecognised either when they have been disposed of or when they are permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from their disposal. The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is recognised in profit or loss in the period of derecognition. Though the Company measures investment property using cost based measurement, the fair value of investment property is disclosed in notes. Fair value are determined based on an annual evaluation performed by an accredited external independent valuer. N. Non-current assets held for sale The non-current asset classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell / distribute. Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale/ distribution are presented separately in the balance sheet. Assets once classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised. O. Borrowing costs General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest (calculated using the effective interest rate method), hedge related cost incurred in connection with foreign currency borrowings and other costs that an entity incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing cost also includes exchange differences to the extent regarded as an adjustment to the borrowing costs. Expenses incurred on the issue of debt securities are amortised over the term of the related securities and included within borrowing costs. Premium payable on early redemption of debt securities, in lieu of future finance costs, is written off as borrowing costs as and when paid. P. Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is (or contains) a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the inception of the lease. The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset or assets, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement. Where the Group is lessee A lease is classified at the inception date as a finance lease or an operating lease. A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the Company is classified as a finance lease. Finance leases, are capitalized at the inception of the lease term at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and present value of minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are recognized as finance costs in the statement of profit and loss. unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalized in accordance with the Group’s general policy on the borrowing costs. Lease management Annual Report 2018-19 | 223 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements fees, legal charges and other initial direct costs of lease are capitalized. Contingent rentals are recognised as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. A leased asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Company will obtain the ownership by the end of the lease term, the capitalized asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term. Leases, where the lessor effectively retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the leased item, are classified as operating leases. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in the statement of profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Where the Group is the lessor Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases. Rental income from operating lease is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned. Leases are classified as finance leases when substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership transfer from the Company to the lessee. Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as receivables at the Company’s net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the net investment outstanding in respect of the lease. The interest income is recognized in the statement of profit and loss. Initial direct costs such as legal costs, brokerage costs, etc. are recognized immediately in the statement of profit and loss. Embedded leases All take-or-pay long term contracts are reviewed at inception to determine whether they contain any embedded leases. If there are any embedded leases, they are assessed as either finance or operating leases and accounted for accordingly. Q. Inventories Raw materials (including packing material), stores and spares are valued at lower of cost or net realizable value. However, materials and other items held for use in the production of inventories are not written down below cost if the finished products in which they will be incorporated are expected to be sold at or above cost. Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition are accounted for as follows: Raw materials (including packing material) and Spares: cost includes cost of purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is determined on weighted average basis. Finished goods and work in progress: cost includes cost of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads based on the normal operating capacity, but excluding borrowing costs. Cost of finished goods includes excise duty. Cost is determined on weighted average basis. Traded goods: cost includes cost of purchase and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition. Cost is determined on weighted average basis. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and estimated costs necessary to make the sale. R. Impairment of non-financial assets The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. 224 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded companies or other available fair value indicators. The Company bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared separately for each of the Group’s cash-generating units to which the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years. For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year. To estimate cash flow projections beyond periods covered by the most recent budgets/forecasts, the Group extrapolates cash flow projections in the budget using a steady or declining growth rate for subsequent years, unless an increasing rate can be justified. In any case, this growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the products, industries, or countries in which the entity operates, or for the market in which the asset is used. In respect of subsidiaries Subsidiary companies bases their impairment calculation on fair value less cost to sell. The fair value less cost to sell is computed using the composite rate method based on the demand, location, structural conditions, state of repairs and present condition of the assets reduced by depreciation. Impairment losses, including impairment on inventories, are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. For assets, an assessment is made at each reporting date to determine whether there is an indication that previously recognised impairment losses no longer exist or have decreased. If such indication exists, the Group estimates the asset’s or CGU’s recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the statement of profit and loss. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as at March 31 and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each CGU (or group of CGU’s) to which the goodwill relates. When the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed in future periods. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually as at March 31 at the CGU level, as appropriate, and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. S. Provisions General Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The expense relating to a provision is presented in the statement of profit and loss. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost. Mine reclamation liability The Company records a provision for mine reclamation cost until the closure of mine. Mine reclamation costs are provided at the present value of expected costs to settle the obligation using estimated cash flows and are recognised as cost of goods sold in statement of profit and loss. The cash flows are discounted at a current pre-tax rate that reflects the risks specific to the mine reclamation liability. The unwinding of the discount is expensed as incurred and recognised in the statement of profit and loss as a finance cost. The estimated future costs of mine reclamation are reviewed annually and adjusted as appropriate. Changes in the estimated future costs or in the discount rate applied are added to or deducted from the cost of goods sold. Annual Report 2018-19 | 225 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements T. Retirement and other employee benefits Retirement benefit in the form of provident fund contribution to Statutory Provident Fund, pension fund, superannuation fund and ESI are defined contribution schemes. The contributions are charged to the statement of profit and loss whenever services are rendered. The group has no obligation, other than the contribution payable to the provident fund. The Company recognizes contribution payable to these schemes as an expense, when an employee renders the related service. If the contribution payable to the scheme for service received before the balance sheet date exceeds the contribution already paid, the deficit payable to the scheme is recognized as a liability after deducting the contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid exceeds the contribution due for services received before the balance sheet date, then excess is recognized as an asset to the extent that the pre-payment will lead to, for example, a reduction in future payment or a cash refund. The group operates two defined benefit plans for its employees, viz., gratuity and provident fund contribution to Dalmia Cement Provident Fund Trust. The costs of providing benefits under these plans are determined on the basis of actuarial valuation at each year-end. Separate actuarial valuation is carried out for each plan using the projected unit credit method. Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability and the return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability), are recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through OCI in the period in which they occur. Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods. Accumulated leave, which is expected to be utilized within the next 12 months, is treated as short-term employee benefit. The group measures the expected cost of such absences as the additional amount that it expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the reporting date. The group treats accumulated leave expected to be carried forward beyond twelve months, as long-term employee benefit for measurement purposes. Such long-term compensated absences are provided for based on the actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method at the year-end. Actuarial gains/losses are immediately taken to the statement of profit and loss and are not deferred. Performance linked deferred payment is the long term employee benefit for the purpose of measurement and are provided for based on the actuarial valuation using the projected unit credit method at the year-end. U. Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the employee stock options at the grant date. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is amortised over the vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase in equity. At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the Employee stock option outstanding in equity. V. Financial instruments A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. Financial assets Initial recognition and measurement All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset. Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date that the Company commits to purchase or sell the asset. Subsequent measurement For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in below mentioned categories: (i) Debt instruments at amortised cost (ii) Debt instruments and derivatives at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) 226 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Debt instruments at amortised cost A ‘debt instrument’ is measured at the amortised cost if both the following conditions are met: a) The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets for collecting contractual cash flows, and b) Contractual terms of the asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on the principal amount outstanding. This category is the most relevant to the Company. After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (EIR) method. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the statement of profit or loss. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the statement of profit or loss. This category generally applies to trade and other receivables. For more information on receivables, refer to note 9. Debt instrument at FVTOCI A ‘debt instrument’ is classified as at the FVTOCI if both of the following criteria are met: a) The objective of the business model is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets, and b) The asset’s contractual cash flows represent SPPI. Debt instruments included within the FVTOCI category are measured initially as well as at each reporting date at fair value. Fair value movements are recognized in the other comprehensive income (OCI). However, the Company recognizes interest income, impairment losses and reversals and foreign exchange gain or loss in the statement of profit and loss. On derecognition of the asset, cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from the equity to statement of profit and loss. Interest earned whilst holding FVTOCI debt instrument is reported as interest income using the EIR method. Debt instrument at FVTPL FVTPL is a residual category for debt instruments. Any debt instrument, which does not meet the criteria for categorization as at amortized cost or as FVTOCI, is classified as at FVTPL. In addition, the Company may elect to designate a debt instrument, which otherwise meets amortized cost or FVTOCI criteria, as at FVTPL. However, such election is allowed only if doing so reduces or eliminates a measurement or recognition inconsistency (referred to as ‘accounting mismatch’). The Company has designated investment in mutual funds and derivative instruments as at FVTPL. Debt instruments included within the FVTPL category are measured at fair value with all changes recognized in the statement of profit and loss. Derecognition A financial asset is primarily derecognised when:  The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired, or  The Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Company has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Company has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset. Impairment of financial assets In accordance with Ind AS 109, the Company applies expected credit loss (ECL) model for measurement and recognition of impairment loss on the following financial assets and credit risk exposure: a) Financial assets that are debt instruments, and are measured at amortised cost e.g., loans, debt securities, deposits, trade receivables and bank balance b) Trade receivables or any contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset that result from transactions that are within the scope of Ind AS 18 (referred to as ‘contractual revenue receivables’) The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on: Trade receivables The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition. Annual Report 2018-19 | 227 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines that whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. The credit risk has not increased significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk of customer has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognising impairment loss allowance based on 12-month ECL. Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date. ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Company in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR. When estimating the cash flows, the Company considers: All contractual terms of the financial instrument (including prepayment, extension, call and similar options) over the expected life of the financial instrument. However, in rare cases when the expected life of the financial instrument cannot be estimated reliably, then the entity is required to use the remaining contractual term of the financial instrument Cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its trade receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed. ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the statement of profit and loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the statement of profit and loss. The balance sheet presentation for various financial instruments is described below: Financial assets measured as at amortised cost and contractual revenue receivables: ECL is presented as an allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the balance sheet. The allowance reduces the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the Company does not reduce impairment allowance from the gross carrying amount. For assessing increase in credit risk and impairment loss, the Company combines financial instruments on the basis of shared credit risk characteristics with the objective of facilitating an analysis that is designed to enable significant increases in credit risk to be identified on a timely basis. The Company does not have any purchased or originated credit-impaired (POCI) financial assets, i.e., financial assets which are credit impaired on purchase/ origination. Financial liabilities Initial recognition and measurement Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables. All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs. The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial guarantee contracts and derivative financial instruments. Subsequent measurement The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: Loans and borrowings This is the category most relevant to the Company. After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognised in statement of profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statement of profit and loss. 228 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements This category generally applies to borrowings. For more information refer note 12. Financial guarantee contracts Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the specified subsidiary fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount of loss allowance determined as per impairment requirements of Ind AS 109 and the amount recognised less cumulative amortisation. De-recognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the de-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of profit or loss. Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. W. Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Initial recognition and subsequent measurement The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps and forward commodity contracts, to hedge its foreign currency risks, interest rate risks and commodity price risks, respectively. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative. The purchase contracts that meet the definition of a derivative under Ind AS 109 are recognized in the statement of profit and loss. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to profit or loss. X. Segment reporting Identification of segments Operating Segments are identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker (CODM) in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance in accordance with Ind AS 108, Operating Segments. Inter-segment transfers The group generally accounts for intersegment sales and transfers at cost plus appropriate margins. Allocation of common costs Common allocable costs are allocated to each segment according to the relative contribution of each segment to the total common costs. Unallocated items Unallocated items include general corporate income and expense items which are not allocated to any business segment. Segment accounting policies The group prepares its segment information in conformity with the accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting the financial statements of the group as a whole. Y. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders (after deducting preference dividends and attributable taxes) by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. Partly paid equity shares are treated as a fraction of an equity share to the extent that they are entitled to participate in dividends relative to a fully paid equity share during the reporting period. Annual Report 2018-19 | 229 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per share, the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders and the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period are adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares. Z. Contingent liabilities and contingent assets A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the group or a present obligation that is not recognized because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. A contingent liability also arises in extremely rare cases where there is a liability that cannot be recognized because it cannot be measured reliably. The group does not recognize a contingent liability but discloses its existence in the financial statements. Contingent assets are not recognised in financial statements since this may result in the recognition of income that may never be realised. However, when the realisation of income is virtually certain, then the related asset is not a contingent asset and is recognised. AA. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts as they are considered an integral part of the Group’s cash management. C. Recent accounting pronouncements (i) Standards issued but not yet effective The amendments to the standards are issued, but not yet effective, upto the last date of financial statements are disclosed below. The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective. The Ministry of Corporate affairs (MCA) has issued the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2019 and Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Second Amendment Rules, 2019 amending the following standard: A. Ind AS 116 Leases Ind AS 116 provides a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and their treatment in the financial statements for both lessors and lessees. Ind AS 116 will supersede the current lease guidance including Ind AS 17 Leases and the related Interpretations when it becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after April 01, 2019. The date of initial application of Ind AS 116 for the Group will be April 01, 2019. The Group is in the process of making an assessment of the impact of Ind AS 116 upon initial recognition, which is subject to changes arising from more detailed ongoing analysis. The management cannot provide a reasonable estimate of effects of the application of the Standard as they have not completed their impact assessment as at the reporting date. B. Amendment to existing issued Ind AS The MCA has also carried out amendments in following accounting standards. These are: i) Ind AS 12 Income taxes to Appendix C Uncertainty over income tax treatments. ii) Ind AS 19 Employee Benefits iii) Ind AS 23 Borrowing Costs iv) Ind AS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures v) Ind AS 109 Financial Instruments vi) Ind AS 111 Joint Arrangements Application of above standards are not expected to have any significant impact on the Group’s financial statements. (ii) New and amended standards The Group applied Ind AS 115 for the first time. The nature and effect of the changes as a result of adoption of these new accounting standards are described below. Several other amendments and interpretations apply for the first time in March 2019, but do not have an impact on the financial statements of the Group. The Group has not early adopted any standards or amendments that have been issued but are not yet effective. 230 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (a) Ind AS 115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Ind AS 115 was issued on March 28, 2018 and supersedes Ind AS 18 Revenue and it applies, with limited exceptions, to all revenue arising from contracts with its customers. Ind AS 115 establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers and requires that revenue be recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. Ind AS 115 requires entities to exercise judgement, taking into consideration all of the relevant facts and circumstances when applying each step of the model to contracts with their customers. The standard also specifies the accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining a contract and the costs directly related to fulfilling a contract. In addition, the standard requires extensive disclosures. The application of Ind AS 115 did not have any significant impact on the financial statements of the Group. (b) Amendment to existing issued Ind AS The MCA has also carried out amendments in the following accounting standards. These are: i) Ind AS 20 Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance:Government grant related to non-monetary asset ii) Ind AS 38 Intangible asset:Intangible asset acquired free of charge iii) Ind AS 40 Investment Property :-Transfers of Investment Property iv) Ind AS 28 Investments in Associates:Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures v) Ind AS 12 Income taxes:Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses The effect on adoption of above mentioned amendments were insignificant on the financial statements. Annual Report 2018-19 | 231 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 2A. Property, plant and equipment (Amount in H) Land Land Buildings Plant and Furniture Vehicles Office Mines Total (free hold) (lease hold) equipment and fixtures equipment development Cost As at 1st April, 2017 987 69 1,185 8,264 20 24 35 46 10,630 Addition during the year 48 43 221 2 2 7 1 324 Less: Disposals/ Adjustments 1 13 1 1 16 during the year Loss on impairment 0 0 0 Reclassification (8) 7 1 Other Adjustment/exchange 1 2 7 10 difference Less: Assets held for sale 1 1 As at 31st March, 2018 1,035 70 1,221 8,485 23 25 41 47 10,947 Additions on acquisitions 31 46 182 0 0 3 3 265 Additions during the year 42 1 28 375 3 3 14 6 472 Less: Disposals/ Adjustments 0 0 123 0 1 0 0 124 during the year Loss on impairment Reclassification Exchange difference (0) (0) 2 (0) (0) (0) 2 Other adjustments 11 (3) (0) 0 0 8 Less: Assets held for sale As at 31st March, 2019 1,108 82 1,295 8,918 26 27 58 56 11,570 Depreciation/ Amortization As at 1st April, 2017 9 6 127 997 4 7 13 17 1,180 Additions on acquisition Charge for the year 7 3 62 552 3 4 8 7 646 Less: on disposals 0 5 0 1 1 7 Reclassification Adjustments (0) (0) 0 0 0 Less: Assets held for sale 0 0 Exchange difference 0 1 2 0 0 3 As at 31st March, 2018 16 9 190 1,546 7 10 20 24 1,822 Additions on acquisition 5 21 0 0 2 1 29 Charge for the year 8 3 65 658 3 3 9 5 754 Less: on disposals 0 120 0 1 0 121 Reclassification Adjustments (0) (0) 0 0 0 Less: Assets held for sale 0 0 Exchange difference 3 (0) (0) (0) (0) (0) 3 Other adjustments (3) (0) 0 0 (3) As at 31st March, 2019 24 15 260 2,102 10 12 31 30 2,484 Net Block As at 31st March, 2019 1,084 67 1,035 6,816 16 15 27 26 9,086 As at 31st March, 2018 1,019 61 1,031 6,939 16 15 21 23 9,125 1. The Group has pledged certain assets against borrowings which has been disclosed in note 14. 2. Registration of land amounting to H13 (March 31, 2018: H22) is pending in the name of the Group. 3. Registration of Building (Gross Block) amounting to H47 (March 31, 2018: H47) is pending in the name of the Group. 4. In terms of Schemes of Arrangement and Amalgamation, the title deeds of certain portion of immovable properties of erstwhile Adhunik Cement Limited, erstwhile Adhunik MSP (Cement) Limited, Power Undertakings of erstwhile DCB Power Ventures Limited and Undertakings of Odisha Cement Limited (transfer through slump sale) are in the process of being transferred in the name of the Company. 5. Disposals from (i) Plant and equipment having gross block of H7 (March 31, 2018: H0) and accumulated depreciation of H6 (March 31, 2018: H0) and (ii) Vehicles having gross block of H0 (March 31, 2018: HNil) and accumulated depreciation of H0 (March 31, 2018: HNil) transferred to 'Assets held for sale'. 6. Adjustment in Leasehold land during the year represents mines reclamation cost transferred from Other intangible assets. 232 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 2B. Capital work-in-progress (CWIP) (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Movement of capital work in progress Opening 173 128 Additions during the year 535 300 Capitalised during the year (206) (255) Transfer to Intangible Assets under development (1) Closing 501 173 (i) Capital work in progress mainly comprises plant and equipment under construction of H328 (March 31, 2018: H12) for new cement plant in Odisha along with waste heat recovery system and split Cement manufacturing units in the eastern part of India. 3 (a) Investment property 3 (b) Goodwill and other intangible assets 3 (c) Intangible assets under development 3 (d) Biological Assets other than bearer plants (Amount in H) 3 (a) 3 (b) Goodwill and other intangible assets Investment Goodwill* Computer Mining Raw Materials Brands Total Property software Rights** Procurement Rights *** **** Cost As at 1st April, 2017 0 3,767 11 1,175 279 1,973 7,205 Addition during the year 1 1 Less: Disposals during the year 588 588 Other adjustments Exch diff As at 31st March, 2018 0 3,179 12 1,175 279 1,973 6,618 Additions on acquisitions 139 139 Additions during the year 2 2 Less: Disposals during the year Adjustment (11) (11) Reclassification As at 31st March, 2019 0 3,318 14 1,165 279 1,973 6,748 Depreciation/ Amortization As at 1st April, 2017 861 6 78 42 152 1,139 Charge for the year 417 3 50 21 76 567 Less: on disposals As at 31st March, 2018 1,278 9 128 63 228 1,706 Charge for the year 420 4 49 9 76 558 Less: on disposals Adjustment (3) (3) Reclassification As at 31st March, 2019 1,698 13 174 72 304 2,261 Net Block As at 31st March, 2019 0 1,620 1 991 207 1,669 4,487 As at 31st March, 2018 0 1,901 3 1,047 216 1,745 4,912 Investment Property Group's investment properties consist of a freehold lands for capital appreciation. Group has no restrictions on the realisability of its investment property and no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment properties or for repairs, maintenance and enhancements. There is no material expenses incurred for the maintenance of investment properties nor income derived out of the same. Investment properties is either mortgaged or hypothecated against the secured borrowings of the Group as disclosed in note no. 14. As at March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, the fair values of the property is H3 and H3 respectively. Fair values are determined based on an annual evaluation performed by an accredited external independent valuer. The fair valuation of investment properties comprising lands are based on the benchmark value of land as fixed for different mouzas (village) by the authorities of respective State Governments. Annual Report 2018-19 | 233 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 3 (d) Biological Assets other than bearer plants (contd.) * Goodwill includes goodwill acquired pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation and goodwill on consolidation. (i) Impairment testing of Goodwill The carrying amount of Goodwill of H1,389 (March 31, 2018: H1,809) acquired pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation has been allocated to Cement Cash Generating Unit (CGU) for impairment testing. The Group performs annual impairment test for carrying value of goodwill. The Group considers the relationship between its market capitalisation based on other comparable companies and its book value, among other factors, when reviewing for indicators of impairment. The recoverable amount has been considered based on the fair value less cost of disposal or value in use, whichever is higher as required to be assessed under Ind-AS 36. The recoverable amount of the Cement Business Unit (CGU) has been determined based on a value in use calculation using cash flow projections from financial projections approved by senior management of the Group, which are part of overall business plan covering a five-year period. The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections for impairment testing during the current year is 16.94% and cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 4.00% growth rate which is consistent with the industry forecasts. As a result of the analysis, management did not identify any impairment for this CGU and accordingly, there is no impairment for goodwill amount. The management believes that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which recoverable amount is based would not cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit. Key assumptions used for value in use calculations The calculation of value in use for the CGU is most sensitive to the following assumptions: EBITDA margins EBITDA margins are estimated based on the trend of actual EBITDA of cement segment for past 1 year preceding the beginning of the budget period. Discount Rate Discount rates represent the current market assessment of the risks specific to the CGU, taking into consideration the time value of money and individual risks of the underlying assets that have not been incorporated in the cash flow estimates. The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances of the Group and the CGU and is derived from its weighted average cost of capital (WACC). The WACC takes into account both debt and equity. The cost of equity is derived from the expected return on investment by the Group’s investors. The cost of debt is based on the interest-bearing borrowings the Group is obliged to service. CGU specific risk is incorporated by applying individual beta factor. The beta factor is evaluated annually based on publicly available market data. Adjustments to the discount rate are made to factor in the specific amount and timing of the future tax flows in order to reflect a pre-tax discount rate. Growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the forecast period The Group has considered growth rate of 4% to extrapolate cash flows beyond the forecast period which is in line with the industry forecasts. Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The implications of the key assumptions for the recoverable amount are discussed below: EV/EBITDA multiple A decline in EV/EBITDA multiple below 9.45x would result in impairment of goodwill. Growth rate assumptions – A reduction to 1.50% in the long-term growth rate would result in value in use being lower than carrying amount of the assets. Discount rates A rise in pre-tax discount rate to 18.58% would result in value in use being lower than the carrying amount of the assets. EBITDA margins A decreased demand can lead to a decline in EBITDA. A decrease in EBITDA by 10% would result in value in use being lower than carrying amount of the assets. 234 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 3 (d) Biological Assets other than bearer plants (contd.) (ii) Amortisation of recognised Goodwill The Group had accounted for (a) Amalgamation of Adwetha Cement Holdings Limited ('ACHL') under the Purchase Method as prescribed by Accounting Standard 14 – Accounting for Amalgamations, notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 and as per provision of Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation approved by the NCLT, Chennai Bench effective on November 17, 2017 with effect from Appointed Date March 15, 2016; and (b) Slump sale of all the assets (including goodwill and/ or intangible assets) and liabilities forming part of transferred Undertakings of Odisha Cement Limited as at January 1, 2015 (Appointed Date) to the Group on a going concern basis in accordance with allocation report prepared in accordance with AS 10, notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 and as per the provisions of Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation approved by NCLT, Chennai Bench effective on October 30, 2018. Goodwill arisen on amalgamation alongwith goodwill acquired on slump sale is being amortised over a period of 4 to 10 years from the appointed date, as per the provisions of respective Schemes. As a result of amortisation of goodwill, profit before tax for the year ended March 31, 2019 is lower by H420^ (March 31, 2018 : H417). ^ including H8 on account of accelerated amortisation of a particular goodwill amount from earlier policy of amortising over a period of 5 years to 4 years during the year. ** Mining rights include: (a) Pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement, Group had carried out fair valuation of mining rights of the mines at ACL (amalgamated with the Group from appointed date January 1, 2015). A sum of H194 has been assigned to these mining rights. (b) Pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation, mining rights of the mines forming part of transfer of Undertakings of ODCL to the Group by way of slump exchange from the appointed date January 1, 2015. A sum of H969 has been assigned to these mining rights. *** Raw materials procurement rights: Pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation, Group had recorded value of Raw materials procurement rights from ODCL based on the the fair valuation carried out by independent valuer as at the appointed date January 1, 2015 at an aggregate value of H284. **** Brands: Pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation, Group had recorded value of Brands acquired from ODCL based on the fair valuation carried out by independent valuer, as at the appointed date January 1, 2015 at an aggregate value of H1,991. (Amount in H) 3(c). Intangible assets 3 (d) Biological Assets under development other than bearer plants** As at March As at March As at March As at March 31, 2019 31, 2018 31, 2019 31, 2018 Movement of capital work in progress Opening 0 0 0 0 Additions during the year 19 0 Capitalised during the year Closing 19 0 0 0 ** Biological Assets other than bearer plants represent Livestock. The livestock comprises of milch cattle and the produce is utilised for welfare of the employees. It is measured at cost as the fair value cannot be measured reliably. 3 (e) The Group has performed annual impairment testing for carrying value of goodwill of H1,389 (March 31, 2018: H1,809) acquired pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation. There recoverable amount has been considered based on the fair value less cost of disposal or value in use, whichever is higher as required to be assessed under Ind-AS 36. The management of the DCBL did not identify any impairment for goodwill amount (refer to note 3(b)). Annual Report 2018-19 | 235 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 4. Investments (Amount in H) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Equity shares at cost In joint venture (unquoted) 38,35,000 (March 31, 2018: 38,35,000) Shares of H10/each fully paid 7 7 up in Radhikapur (West) Coal Mining Private Limited 1,836,500 (March 31, 2018: 1,836,500) Shares of H10/each fully paid 2 2 up in Khappa Coal Company Private Limited Less: Impairment in the value of investment 5 4 5 4 Others (Quoted) 14,829,764 (March 31, 2018: 14,829,764) Equity Shares of H2/each 29 29 fully paid up in Dalmia Bharat Sugar and Industries Limited Others (Unquoted) 36,000 (March 31, 2018: 36,000) Equity Shares of H10/each fully 1 1 paid up in G.S.Homes & Hotels Private Limited Nil (March 31, 2018: 20) Shares of H10/each fully paid up in Asian Refractories Limited (under liquidation) Nil (March 31, 2018: 25) Shares of H10/each fully paid up in Assam Bengal Cement Company Limited (under liquidation) 250 (March 31, 2018: 250) Shares of H10/each fully paid up in (2500) (2500) Haryana Financial Corporation Others (unquoted)-at fair value through OCI 449 (March 31, 2018: 449) Equity Shares of H10/each fully paid up in 0 0 Smarter Health TechServe Private Limited 374 (March 31, 2018: 374) Equity Shares of H10/each fully paid up in 0 0 Pumpcharge Internet Private Limited 449 (March 31, 2018: 449) Equity Shares of H10/each fully paid up in 0 0 Exchange4Solar Private Limited 145 (March 31, 2018: 145) Equity Shares of H10/each fully paid up in 0 0 Khetify Solutions Private Limited Investment in debentures or bonds (unquoted) -at cost 5,900 (March 31, 2018: 5,900) zero coupon optionally redeemable 59 59 convertible debentures of H1,00,000/each in Saroj Sunrise Private Limited.* 12 (March 31, 2018: 12) 8% non convertible secured debentures of 0 0 H100/each fully paid up in Indian Chamber of Commerce. 2 (March 31, 2018: 2) 8% non convertible secured debentures of H25/0 0 each partly paid up in Indian Chamber of Commerce. Investment in Preference Shares-at cost 62,621 (March 31, 2018: Nil) Compulsorily convertible participative 14 preference shares of H1100/each in Freight Commerce Solutions Private Limited. 107 93 Aggregate book value of quoted investments 29 29 Aggregate market value of quoted investments 95 257 Aggregate book value of unquoted investments 78 64 Aggregate amount diminution in value of unquoted investments 5 5 * The investment in zero coupon optionally redeemable convertible debentures of Saroj Sunrise Private Limited are in the nature of equity investment (refer note 44). 236 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 5. Financial assets (i) Investments (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 At fair value through profit and loss Tax free bonds (quoted) 8.30% NHAI tax free bonds 0 0 Units of Urban Infrastructure Opportunities Fund (unquoted) 1,188 (March 31, 2018: 1,188) Units of H29,930/(March 31, 2018: H49,430/-) each fully 2 4 paid up in Urban Infrastructure Opportunities Fund Others (unquoted) at cost 50 (March 31, 2018: 50) units of H100/each fully paid up in Co-operative Society 0 0 Property Rights in Holiday Resort 0 0 Total 2 4 Aggregate book value of quoted investments 0 0 Aggregate market value of quoted investments 1 1 Aggregate book value of unquoted investments 2 4 (ii) Loans (Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated) Loans and advances to: Employees@ 10 9 Others 1 10 10 @includes due form officers of the Company 10 9 No loans or advances are due by directors or other officers of the Group or any of them either severally or jointly with any other person. Further, no loans or advances are due by firms or private companies in which any director is a partner, a director or a member. (iii) Other financial assets (Unsecured, considered good unless otherwise stated) (Amount in H) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Security deposit made 53 44 Subsidy/ Incentives receivable 336 511 Less: Impairment allowance (allowance for doubtful advances) 0 336 0 511 Deposit with banks having remaining maturity of more than twelve 12 17 months* Advance against share application money/purchase of investment 4 4 Less: Impairment allowance (allowance for doubtful advances) (4) (4) Finance lease receivable 0 1 Less: Impairment allowance (allowance for doubtful advances) (0) (1) Other financial assets 0 1 Derivative instruments at fair value through profit and loss Foreign currency option contracts 48 57 449 630 * Includes H12 (March 31. 2018 : H16), deposits receipts whereof have been kept with banks against bank guarantees given / are pledged with various authorities. Annual Report 2018-19 | 237 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 5. Financial assets (contd.) Break up of financial assets carried at amortised cost (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Security deposits 53 44 Deposit with banks having remaining maturity of more than twelve months 12 17 Employee loans 10 9 Other loans 1 Subsidy/ Incentives receivable 336 511 Other financial assets 0 1 Total financial assets carried at amortised cost 411 583 Break up of financial assets carried at fair value through statement of profit and loss Investment in tax free bonds 0 0 Investment in infrastructure fund 2 4 Derivative instruments 48 57 50 61 Break up of financial assets carried at fair value through OCI Investment in equity shares 0 0 6. Income tax assets  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Advance income tax (net of provision for tax) 91 68 91 68 7. Other Non Current Assets (Amount in H) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 (Unsecured considered good unless otherwise stated) Capital advances Considered good (secured)* 89 0 Considered good 260 102 Considered doubtful 1 3 Less: Impairment allowance (allowance for doubtful advances) 1 3 Advances other than capital advances Other advances Considered good 9 10 Considered doubtful 2 1 Less: Impairment allowance (allowance for doubtful advances) 2 1 Deposit and balances with Government departments and other authorities Considered good 24 17 Considered doubtful 0 2 Less: Impairment allowance (allowance for doubtful advances) 0 2 382 129 * H89 (March,2018: H0) secured against bank guarantee held. 238 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 8. Inventories (at lower of cost or net realisable value) (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Raw materials On hand 222 140 In transit 10 19 Packing materials On hand 27 34 In transit 0 1 Work in progress* 87 54 Finished goods# On hand 142 109 In transit Stock in trade 92 Stores and spares On hand 432 380 In transit 20 42 Total Inventories at the lower of cost or net realisable value 1,032 779 *H11 (March 2018: Nil) include in trial run for Dalmia DSP Limited (refer no 43) #H1 (March 2018: Nil) include in trial run for Dalmia DSP Limited (refer no 43) Inventories are hypothecated with the banks against rupee loan and foreign currency loan on pari passu on inter se basis. Refer note 18. 9. Financial Assets (i) Investments  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 At amortised cost Commercial papers (unquoted) 139 At fair value through profit and loss Equity shares 5,20,400 (March 31, 2018: 5,20,400) Shares of H1/each fully paid up in The Ramco 38 38 Cements Limited. (quoted) 50,000 (March 31, 2018: 50,000) Shares of H10/each fully paid up in Poddar Pigments 1 1 Limited. (quoted) Nil (March 31, 2018: 12,900) Shares of H10/each fully paid up in Reliance Industries 2 Limited (quoted) Others Units of debt based schemes of various mutual funds (quoted) 516 2,177 Trade corporate bonds (quoted) 35 Non trade corporate bonds (quoted) 564 218 Alternative investment fund (unquoted) 22 At fair value through OCI Investment in limited liability partnership Investment in TVS Shriram Growth Fund 1B LLP, 67.95% contribution (March 31, 2018: 500 486 67.95% contribution) Equity shares (quoted) Indian Energy Exchange Limited 30,32,8630 (March 31, 2018: 30,32,863 Shares of H10/ 500 486 each) shares of H1/each fully paid up in Indian Energy exchange Total 2,315 3,408 Aggregate book value of quoted investments 1,654 2,922 Aggregate market value of quoted investments 1,654 2,922 Aggregate book value of unquoted investments 661 486 Annual Report 2018-19 | 239 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 9.  Financial Assets (contd.) (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (ii) Trade receivables Trade receivables 539 561 Receivables from other related parties 10 3 549 564 Break-up for security details : Trade receivables Secured, Considered good* 239 266 Unsecured, Considered good 494 405 Credit impaired 58 58 791 729 Less: Impairment allowance (allowance for doubtful receivables) 58 58 Less: Provision for free supply 9 5 Less: Provision for rebate / discount 175 102 242 165 549 564 * Secured by way of security deposits collected from customers or bank guarantees or letter of credit held against them. No trade or other receivable are due from directors or other officers of the Company either severally or jointly with any other person. Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms of 0 to 120 days. Trade receivables are netted off with bills discounted of H8 (March 31, 2018: H9). Trade receivables are hypothecated with the banks against cash credit and foreign currency loan from banks on pari passu on inter se basis. Refer note 18(i) & 14(i). For information on financial risk management objectives and policies, refer note 39. (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (iii) Cash and cash equivalents Balances with scheduled banks : On current accounts* 138 130 On cash credit 9 9 On deposit accounts** 106 153 Cheques in hand 27 22 Cash on hand 0 1 280 315 * Balances with current accounts include H0 (March 31, 2018: H0) lying in current account with a nationalised bank, to be operated jointly by the authorised signatories of one of the unit of the DCBL and OCL Iron and Steel Limited in respect of coal block operations. ** Includes H0 (March 31, 2018 : H26), deposit kept with banks against bank guarantee given/ are pledged with various authorities for margin money. (iv) Bank balance other than (iii) above Balances with scheduled banks : Unpaid dividend accounts 4 3 Other bank balances: Deposit accounts (with remaining maturity Less than 12 months)* 185 36 189 39 Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and twelve months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates ranging from 5.75% to 9.00%. At 31 March 2019, the Group had available H587 (31 March 2018: H738) of undrawn committed borrowing facilities. * Includes H33 (March 31, 2018: H8), deposit receipts whereof have been kept with banks against bank guarantee given/ are pledged with various authorities. 240 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 9. Financial Assets (contd.) (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Cash on hand 0 1 Cheques in hand 27 22 Balances with scheduled banks : On current accounts 138 130 On cash credit 9 9 On deposit accounts 106 153 280 315 (v) Loans (Unsecured, unless otherwise stated and considered good) Loan to Employees@ 8 8 Others 33 77 41 85 @includes due form officers of the Company 8 8 (vi) Other financial assets (Unsecured considered good unless otherwise stated) Subsidy/Incentive receivable 552 662 Interest receivable 47 20 Security deposits 22 18 Other financial assets 11 10 Financial assets carried at fair value through statement of profit and loss Derivative instruments 14 24 646 734 Break up of financial assets carried at amortised cost Trade receivables 549 564 Cash and cash equivalents 280 315 Margin money and other bank balances 189 39 Loans to employees 8 8 Loans and advances to others 33 77 Subsidy/Incentive receivable 552 662 Interest receivable 47 20 Security deposit 22 18 Investment in commercial paper 139 Other financial assets 11 10 1,830 1,713 Break up of financial assets carried at fair value through statement of profit or loss Investment in equity shares 39 41 Investment in mutual funds 516 2,177 Trade corporate bonds (quoted) 35 Non trade corporate bonds (quoted) 564 218 Investment in alternative investment fund 22 Derivative instruments 14 24 1,190 2,460 Break up of financial assets carried at fair value through other comprehensive income Investment in limited liability partnership 500 486 Investment equity shares (Quoted) 500 486 1,000 972 Annual Report 2018-19 | 241 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 10. Income tax assets (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Balances with income tax authorities 0 25 0 25 11A. Other current assets (Unsecured, unless otherwise stated and considered good)  (Amount in H) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 Advances other than capital advances Secured, considered good (refer note (a) below) 25 25 Unsecured, considered good 227 137 Doubtful 7 4 Less: Impairment allowance (allowance for doubtful advances) 7 4 Prepayments 12 11 Deposit and balances with Government departments and other 86 65 authorities Other receivables 1 3 351 241 (a) Secured by way of a first ranking exclusive charge over the Hypothecated Property as prescribed in Deed of Hypothecation dated March 17, 2017. 11B. Asset held for sale As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Assets classified as held for sale 1 0 1 0 Certain plant and equipment and vehicles classified as held for sale during the reporting period was measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell at the time of the reclassification, resulting in the recognition of a write down of H0 (March 31, 2018: H0) as impairment loss in the statement of profit and loss. The fair value of the plant and equipment was determined using the market comparison approach. 12A. Share capital (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Authorised : 1,59,55,00,000 (March 31, 2018: 1,59,55,00,000) Equity Shares of H2/each 319 319 1,00,000 (March 31, 2018: 1,00,000) Preference Shares of H100/each 1 1 5,00,00,000 (March 31, 2018: 5,00,00,000) Preference Shares of H10/each 50 50 370 370 Note: (a) Pursuant to amalgamation of OCL India Limited, Dalmia Cement East Limited, Dalmia Bharat Cement Holdings Limited (DBCHL),Shri Rangam Securities Holdings Limited (SRSHL) and Dalmia Bharat Limited with the Company, the authorised equity share capital of the Company stands increased by Nil (Previous year: H319) H2 each. (b) The increase in authorised preference share capital of the Company by Nil (Previous year: H1) H100 each on amalgamation of OCL India Limited with the Company (c) The increase in authorised preference share capital of the Company by Nil (Previous year: H50) H10 each on amalgamation of Dalmia Cement East Limited with the Company 242 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 12A. Share capital (contd.) Issued, Subscribed and Fully Paid Up : (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 19,29,58,553 (March 31, 2018: Nil) Equity Shares of H2/each 39 39 a. Reconciliation of equity shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the reporting year As at March 31, 2019 No. of shares H Crore At the beginning of the year Add : Issued during the year other than ESOP* 19,27,27,553 39 Add : ESOP issued during the year 2,31,000 0 At the end of the year 19,29,58,553 39 b. Terms/ rights attached to equity shares The Company has only one class of equity shares having a face value of H2 per share. Each equity shareholder is entitled to one vote per share. The Company declares and pays dividends in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the approval of shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. In the event of winding-up of the Company, the equity shareholders shall be entitled to be repaid remaining assets of the company after distribution of all preferential amounts in the ratio of the amount of capital paid up on such equity shares. c. Details of shareholder holding more than 5% shares in the Company As at March 31, 2019 No. of shares % holding Rama Investment Company Private Limited 7,98,46,410 41% Sita Investment Company Limited 1,38,88,260 7% d. Aggregate number of shares issued for consideration other than cash during the period of five years immediately preceding the Balance Sheet date During a period of 5 During a period of 5 years up to 31 March 19 years up to 31 March 18 No. of Shares No. of Shares Equity shares of H2 each allotted fully paid up issued pursuant to the 19,27,27,553 Scheme of Amalgamation between Dalmia Bharat Limited (DBL) and Odisha Cement Limited without payments being received in cash. 12B. Share capital suspense account As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Share capital suspense account* 6,654 6,654 * Share suspense account as on April 01, 2018 represents shares pending to be allotted to the shareholders (Including Securities Premium) of erstwhile Dalmia Bharat Limited and OCL India Limited, specified under the Scheme, which have been allotted on January 9, 2019. Annual Report 2018-19 | 243 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 13. Other equity  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Employee stock option Opening Balance as per last financial statements 14 12 Add: Addition during the period (0) 2 Closing Balance 14 14 Capital reserve Opening balance as per last financial statements 277 279 Add: Additions/(deletion) during the year (0) (2) Closing balance 277 277 Securities premium Opening balance as per last financial statements 1,075 1,076 Add: Additions during the year 6,624 (1) Closing balance 7,699 1,075 General reserve Opening balance as per last financial statements 3 3 Add: Transfer from surplus balance in statement of profit and loss 0 (0) Closing balance 3 3 Reserve fund as per Reserve Bank of India Opening balance as per last financial statements 0 Less: Released during the year (0) Closing balance Debenture redemption reserve Opening balance as per last financial statements 285 378 Add: Created during the year 27 38 Less: Released during the year 62 131 Closing balance 250 285 Retained earnings Balance as per last financial statements 1,544 1,192 Add: Amount transferred from debenture redemption reserve 62 131 Profit for the year 308 292 Less: Appropriations Transferred to debenture redemption reserve 27 38 Dividend on equity shares 33 27 Dividend distribution tax 7 6 Total appropriations 67 71 Net surplus in the statement of profit and loss 1,847 1,544 Items of other comprehensive income recognised directly in retained earnings Other comprehensive income Opening balance as per last financial statements 483 35 Less: Currency translation reserve 1 3 Re-measurement of post employment benefit obligation, net of tax (3) 3 Fair valuation gain on investments, net of tax 29 442 Closing balance 510 483 2,357 2,027 Total other equity 10,600 3,681 244 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 13. Other equity (contd.) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Distribution made and proposed Cash dividends on equity shares declared and paid : Final dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2018 : Rupees: 1.70 per share 33 27 (March 31, 2017 : Rupees 2.20 per share) Dividend distribution tax 7 6 40 33 Proposed dividends on equity shares: Final dividend for the year ended on March 31, 2019 : Rupees: 2 per share (March 31, 39 33 2018 : Rupees 1.70 per share) Dividend distribution tax 8 7 47 40 Description of nature and purpose of each reserve (a) Employee stock optionThe fair value of the equity-settled share based payment transactions with employees is recognised in statement of profit and loss with corresponding credit to employee stock options outstanding account. (b) Securities premium The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities Premium. In case of equity-settled share based payment transactions, the difference between fair value on grant date and nominal value of share is accounted as securities premium. (c) General reserveThe Group has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Group before declaring dividend to general reserve pursuant to the earlier provisions of Companies Act, 1956. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013. (d) Retained earningsRetained earnings are the profits that the Group has earned till date, less any transfers to general reserve, dividends or other distributions paid to shareholders. Retained earnings is a free reserve available to the Group. (e) Debenture redemption reserve (DRR)The Group has issued redeemable non-convertible debentures. Accordingly, the Companies (Share capital and Debentures) Rules, 2014 (as amended), require the Group to create DRR out of profits of the Group available for appropriation. DRR is required to be created for an amount which is equal to 25% of the value of categories of debentures issued by the Group. (f) Capital reserveCapital reserve includes amount created due to scheme of amalgamation and arrangements. 14. Financial liabilities (Amount in H) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 (i) Borrowings Secured A. Redeemable non-convertible debentures 1,379 1,776 Less: Shown in current maturities of long term borrowings 540 839 311 1,465 B. Term loans: i. From banks a. Foreign currency loan 573 476 b. Indian rupee loan from banks 2,365 2,933 Less: Shown in current maturities of long term borrowings 106 2,832 129 3,280 ii. From financial institution 7 164 Less: Shown in current maturities of long term borrowings 2 5 35 129 iii. From others 276 424 Less: Shown in current maturities of long term borrowings 25 251 78 346 Annual Report 2018-19 | 245 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 14. Financial liabilities (contd.) As at March 31, 2019 As at March 31, 2018 C. Deferred payment liabilities 17 8 Less: Shown in current maturities of long term borrowings 17 8 D. Finance lease obligation 2 3 Less: Shown in current maturities of long term borrowings 0 2 0 3 Total secured long term borrowings 3,946 5,231 Unsecured E. Foreign currency loans from banks 346 614 Less: Shown in current maturities of long term borrowings 277 69 386 228 F. Long term loans and deposits from a related party 5 5 Less: Shown in current maturities of long term borrowings 5 5 Total unsecured long term borrowings 69 228 Total long term borrowings 4,015 5,459 1) Debentures referred to in A above to the extent of: i) 9.91% Series A HNil (March 31, 2018 H208) were secured by pledge of investments & redeemable in January 2019. The debentures were fully redeemed during the year. ii) 9.91% Series C H296 (March 31, 2018: H296) are redeemable in January 2021. The debentures were partially early redeemed during the year. iii) 9.91% Series B H197 (March 31, 2018: H197) are redeemable in January 2020. In respect of (ii) to (iii) above, the underlying security has been actually cancelled pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation amongst the DCBL(Subsidiary Company), the Company and the step down subsidiary namely, Odisha Cement Limited approved by NCLT and become effective on October 30, 2018 with effect from Appointed Date, i.e., January 1, 2015. As provided under the debenture trust deed, the DCBL has requested the debenture holders to accept alternate security in replacement of the underlying security, for which consent has been granted by the debenture holders for the creation of such alternate security within a time period of 180 days. The Board of Directors of the Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited in its meeting held on May 9, 2019 has given its approval for creation of alternate security by way of first pari-passu charge over fixed assets (movable and immovable) of the cement units situated at Rajgangpur Cement Works (Odisha), Kapilas Cement Manufacturing Works (Cuttack and Jajpur) and OCL Bengal Cement Works (Midnapore, West Bengal) (both present and future) or charge on any other fixed assets of the DCBL to existing debenture holders for outstanding amount. DCBL has also requested for No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the existing chargeholders for ceding of first pari-passu charge over fixed assets (movable and immovable) of the mentioned cement units of DCBL. Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited expects to receive NOC for ceding of first pari-passu charge over fixed assets as well as creation of alternate security, before the expiry of above prescribed period. iv) 10.75% Series 1A H34 (March 31, 2018: H67) are secured by first pari-passu charge on land, building, assets, plant & equpment of Dalmiapuram unit of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited and plot at Gujarat & redeemable in three yearly instalments in the ratio of 33:33:34 commencing from January 2018. v) 10.75% Series III A, B,C and IV P,Q,R H70 (March 31, 2018: H140) are secured by a first pari-passu charge on movable and immovable fixed assets of Dalmiapuram unit of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited and movable and immovable fixed assets (excluding plant and equipment charged on exclusive basis to specific lenders) of Kadappa and Ariyalur units of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited and redeemable in three yearly instalments commencing from August 2017. vi) 8.65% H125 (March 31, 2018: H249) are secured by first pari passu charge over any movable and immovable fixed assets of Dalmiapuram, Kadappa and Ariyalur units of the Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited and redeemable in October 2019 & October 2020. vii) 8.70% H20 (March 31, 2018: H20) are secured by first pari passu charge over any movable and immovable fixed assets of Dalmiapuram, Kadappa and Ariyalur units of the Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited and redeemable in October 2021. 246 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 14. Financial liabilities (contd.) viii) 9.90% H599 (March 31,2018 H599) are secured by first pari passu charge over all the movable and immovable fixed assets (present & future) of cement division of erstwhile OCL India Limited {a unit of Dalmia Cement Bharat Limited} repayable in 3 equal yearly instalments commencing from March 2020. ix) H38 (March 31,2018 HNil) are secured by creating mortgage on land Chimur, Distt. Chandrapur, Maharashtra in favour of Debenture Trustees besides mortgage on all other immovable properties of Dalmia DSP limited (formerly known as Kalyanpur Cement Limited). Repayable in 5 yearly installments starting from July 10, 2019. 2) Term loans from banks referred to in B (i) above to the extent of : i) H384 (March 31, 2018: H393) are secured by exclusive first charge on land and buildings and hypothecation of all the property, plant and equipments of cement units Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited at Kadappa and Ariyalur excluding assets charged to working capital lenders and Vertical Roller Mills & other machineries and equipments for projects at Kadappa and Ariyalur acquired under foreign currency loan, at base rate plus 0.40% p.a. (present 8.95% p.a.). It is repayable in unequal quarterly instalments starting from June 2015 till March 2030. ii) H464 (March 31, 2018: H467) are secured by first charge on property, plant and equipments (movable and immovable) of cement plant located at Belgaum, Karnataka of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited both present & future (except specific assets financed by ECA) at 1 year MCLR plus 0.40% p.a. (present 8.95% p.a.). It is repayable in unequal quarterly instalments starting from March 2017 till March 2031. iii) H345 (March 31, 2018: H352) are secured by way of first pari-passu charge over movable and immovable property, plant and equipments pertaining to Kadappa and Ariyalur plants of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited except specific equipment exclusively charged to ECA lenders at 3 months MCLR plus 0.20% p.a. (present 8.80% p.a.). It is repayable in unequal quarterly instalments starting from March 2018 till March 2030. iv) H289 (March 31, 2018: H291) carrying interest rate at 1 year MCLR plus 0.40 % p.a. (present at 8.95% p.a.) are secured by way of first charge on property, plant and equipments (movable & immovable) of the cement plant located at Belgaum, Karnakata of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited both present and future except specific assets financed by ECA lenders. It is repayable in unequal quarterly instalments starting from March 2017 till December 2031. v) H192 (March 31, 2018: H194) carrying interest rate 6 months MCLR plus 0.45 % p.a (present at 8.85% p.a.) are secured by way of first charge on property, plant and equipments (movable & immovable) of the cement plant located at Belgaum, Karnakata of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited both present and future (except specific assets financed by ECA lenders). It is repayable in unequal quarterly instalments starting from March 2017 till December 2031. vi) H423 (March 31, 2018: H438) carrying interest at 6 month EURIBOR plus 2.50% p.a. are secured first pari passu charge on movable & immovable property, plant and equipments of power assets at Dalmiapuram, Ariyalur and Belgaum of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited (both present and future). The loan has been availed in foreign currency and is repayable after 36 months from date of first disbursement i.e. May 31, 2017. vii) H31 (March 31, 2018: H37) carrying interest at LIBOR plus 2.05% p.a. (present 3.31% p.a.) are secured by way of exclusive charge on Roller press acquired through this loan for projects at Belgaum of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited. The loan has been availed in foreign currency and is repayable in 16 half yearly instalments of USD 637,110 each starting from October 2014 till May 2022. viii) H129 (March 31, 2018: H163) carrying interest at 1 year MCLR plus 0.30% p.a. are secured by mortgage and first charge on all the movable and immovable properties (both property, plant and equipments and intangible assets) of the cement unit located at Meghalaya of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited both present and future and a second charge on all other assets of the unit. All the above charges rank paripassu inter-se amongst various lenders. Repayable in 32 structured quarterly instalments starting from June 30, 2015 to March 31, 2023. ix) H264 (March 31,2018: H268) carrying interest rate of MCLR plus 0.45% p.a. are secured by first pari passu charge over all the movable and immovable fixed assets (present & future) of cement division of erstwhile OCL India Limited {a unit of Dalmia Cement Bharat Limited} repayable in 48 quarterly instalments commencing from March 2019. x) H0 (March 31,2018: H0) carrying interest rate of 10 % are secured by way of first & exclusive charge on the vehicle purchase therefrom. Repayable in 60 Monthly Instalments starting from Feb 2015. Annual Report 2018-19 | 247 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 14. Financial liabilities (contd.) xi) H217 (March 31, 2018: H224) carrying interest at MCLR plus 0.25% p.a are secured by first pari passu charge on all movable and immovable Property, Plant and Equipment (both present and future) of the cement division situated at Jharkhand Cement Works, Bokaro unit of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited. The loan is repayable in 56 unstructured quarterly instalments of commencing from November 2016. xii) H119 (March 31, 2018: HNil) carrying interest rate at 6 months LIBOR plus 1.94% p.a. are secured by first pari passu charge by way of mortgage and hypothecation over all immovable properties and movable fixed assets of the cement units of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited situated at Rajgangpur Cement works (Odisha), Kapilas Cement Manufacturing Works (Cuttack and Jajpur), OCL Bengal Cement Works (Midnapore, Weat Bengal) (both present and future). The Loan is repayable in 8 half yearly instalment of USD 2,142,857.10 each starting from December 15, 2018 and one instalment on USD 2285714.80 on December 15, 2022. xiii) H45 (March 31,2018 : 47) term loan is primarily secured by the EM of Factory Land and Building and hypothecation charge on all present and future movable and immovable assets of Alsthom Industries Limited excluding land. Besides, the above loan is additionally secured by the corporate guarantee by the Company. Repayable in 108 structured monthly instalments starting from June, 2018. xiv) H36 (March 31 2017: H535) carrying interest rate MCLR plus 0.10% including funded interest on term loan are secured by first pari passu charge on entire property, plant and equipment (immovable and movable assets) of Calcom Cement India Limited)'CCIL'), both present and future and a second charge on entire current assets of CCIL. These loans are also secured by the pledge of 4,38,48,910 equity shares of the CCIL held by the erstwhile promoters, their relatives and two subsidiaries of the CCIL. These loans are additionally secured by personal guarantee of three former directors of the CCIL. 3) Term loans from banks referred to in B (ii) above to the extent of : i) HNil (March 31, 2018: H139) carrying interest at 6 months LIBOR plus 3.60% p.a are secured by first ranking mortgage and hypothecation on all immovable and movable, present and future assets related to the cement unit situated at Rajgangpur Cement Works (Odisha), Kapilas Cement Manufacturing Works (Cuttack), OCL Bengal Cement Works (Midnapore, West Bengal) of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited (excluding current assets) to be shared pari passu with other lenders in respect of other debts and a second charge on all present and future current assets of the borrower to be shared pari passu with other lenders and existing lenders to the cement division of the borrower in respect of the existing debt. The loan has been availed in foreign currency and is repayable in 14 half yearly instalments commencing from June 2016.The loan was fully paid during the year. ii) H7 (March 31, 2018: H11) carrying interest at Axis bank 1 year MCLR plus 0.10% p.a are secured by First pari passu charge on entire property, plant and equipment (movable and immovable} except assets charged exclusively to banks/FIs for other specific purposes. First pari passu charge on all intangible assets. Second pari passu charge on all other assets of Calcom Cement India Limited 'CCIL' (a step down subsidiary of DBL). The loan has been availed in foreign currency and is repayable in 31 structured quarterly instalments starting from April 1, 2014 to Oct 01, 2021. ii) HNil (March 31, 2018: H14) carrying interest at 8.5 % p.a are secured first pari passu charge on entire property, plant and equipment (immovable and movable assets), both present and future, having priority over existing charge holders. First pari passu charge on all intangible assets, both present and future, having priority over existing charge holders, but not limited to goodwill, trademark and patents and undertakings. Second pari-passu charge on the all other assets. Priority over existing lenders on the cash flows of the CCIL (a step down subsidiary of DBL) towards repayments. Pledge of shares of the CCIL held by the promoters—Bawri Group (15.92% stake after entry of Dalmia Group). The loan has been availed in foreign currency and is repayable in 21 structured quarterly instalments starting from April 1, 2014 to Oct 01, 2021. 4) Term loans from others referred to in B (iii) above to the extent of: i) Term loan in the form of government grant of H163 (March 31, 2018: H312) carrying interest @ 0.10% p.a., are secured by a first pari-passu charge on the movable and immovable properties of Cement unit of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited at Dalmiapuram and is repayable in five unequal instalments starting from April 2018 till April 2023. The aforesaid loan was existing at the date of transition to Ind AS i.e. April 1, 2015 and thus carried at historical cost by applying the exemption of Ind AS 101. ii) Term loan in form of government grant of H40 (March 31, 2018: H34) carrying interest @ 0.10% p.a. are secured by a second pari-passu charge on the movable and immovable properties of Cement units of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited at Ariyalur 248 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 14. Financial liabilities (contd.) and Dalmiapuram. Repayment is due from financial year 2018-19 (from January 2019) but repayment schedule is yet to be finalised. Loan was received post transition to Ind AS and has been accounted at fair value with a difference being recognised as government grant. iii) H72 (March 31, 2018 H77) is secured by the mortgage and first charge on all the movable and immovable properties (both tangible and intangible) of Calcom Cement India Limited, both present and future and a second charge on the entire current assets of Calcom Cement India Limited. These loans are also secured by the pledge of 43,848,910 equity shares of Calcom Cement India Limited held by erstwhile promoters, their relatives and two subsidiaries of Calcom Cement India Limited. The loan is repayable in 31 structured instalments starting from April 2019 till October,2021 and carry interest @ 3 month Libor plus 2.50% p.a. The loan has been availed in foreign currency. iv) 5.70% H1 (March 31, 2018: H1) redeemable preference shares at H20 per share (Including premium of H10 per share) in November 2020. 5) Deferred payment liabilities referred to in C above to the extent of: i) H5 (March 31, 2018: H8) Interest free loan referred to in C above is in respect of 14.50% of VAT paid within Karnataka on the sale of goods produced at Belgaum plant of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited located at Karnataka for a period of 12 years beginning from March 2017. This loan is secured by way of a bank guarantee issued by Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited and is repayable in 12 yearly equal instalments after a period of 12 years from the date of receipt of interest free loan. Loan received post transition to Ind AS are recognised at fair value with a difference between the gross proceeds and fair value of the loan is being recognised as deferred government grant. ii) H2 (March 31, 2018: HNil) interest free loan in respect of 14.50% p.a of VAT paid within Karnataka on the sale of goods produced at Belgaum plant of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited located at Karnataka for period January 2017 to June 2017 This loan is secured by way of a bank guarantee issued by the Company and Company and is repayable in 12 yearly equal instalments starting from March 17, 2031. Loan received post transition to Ind AS are recognised at fair value with a difference between the gross proceeds and fair value of the loan is being recognised as deferred government years grant. iii) H7 (March 31, 2018: HNil) interest free excise loan from Govt. of India disbursed through IFCI Ltd at Banjari plant of Dalmia DSP Limited (Formerly known as Kalyanpur Cement Limited) located at Bihar. Loan is secured by a charge by way of mortgage/ hypothecation of all the immovable and movable assets of Dalmia DSP limited (Formerly known as Kalyanpur Cement Limited). 50% of loan was payable immediate within 30 days from 10th July-2018 and balance & 5 yearly installments starting from 10th July-2019 which is delayed. iv) H2 (March 31, 2018: HNil) from group company of earstwhile promoters of Dalmia DSP Limited (formerly known as Kalyanpur Cements Limited). 6) Finance lease obligation includes land lease obligation referred to in D above is repayable during lease period of 90 to 99 years. This is secured against leased assets and carry interest @ 10.00% p.a. 7) Foreign currency loans referred to in E above to the extent of: i) HNil (March 31, 2018: H289) carrying interest at EURINOR plus 2.50% p.a. and repayable in March 2019. The loan was fully paid during the year. ii) HNil (March 31, 2018: H98) carried interest at LIBOR plus 2.50% p.a. The loan was fully paid during the year. iii) H173 (March 31, 2018: H162) carrying interest at 3 months LIBOR plus 1.90% p.a. and is repayable at the end of 15 months from date of disbursement i.e. February 26, 2018. iv) H69 (March 31, 2018: H65) carrying interest at 3 months LIBOR plus 2.50% p.a. and is repayable at the end of 3 years from date of disbursement i.e. February 15, 2018. v) H104 (March 31, 2018: HNil) carrying interest at 3 months LIBOR plus 2.15% p.a. and is repayable at the end of 445 days from the date of disbursement i.e. July 2, 2018. 8) Loans referred to in F above to the extent of: i) H5 (March 31, 2018: H5) Loan from a Joint Venture Company is carrying interest rate of 9.00% p.a and is repayable in November 2019 with renewal option. Annual Report 2018-19 | 249 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 14. Financial liabilities (contd.) (ii) Other financial liabilities (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Security deposit received 1 6 Derivative liabilities 1 Others 5 6 7 Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost Borrowings 4,015 5,459 Security deposit received 1 6 Others 5 4,021 5,465 Financial liabilities carried at fair value through statement of profit and loss Derivative liabilities 1 1 15. Provisions  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Provision for mines reclamation liability (refer note no, 41) 43 30 Provision for employee benefits 91 22 Provision for contingencies (refer note no, 41) 38 32 172 84 16. Deferred Tax (net) (i) The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018 are: (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Statement of profit and loss: Current tax 112 108 Deferred tax/ (Credit) (119) 17 Current tax for earlier years (5) (28) Deferred tax for earlier years 2 1 Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit or loss (10) 98 OCI Section Re-measurement (gains)/ losses on defined benefit plans and Fair value gain on investments Income tax related to items recognized in OCI during the year 29 (2) 250 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 16. Deferred Tax (net) (contd.) (ii) Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2018: (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Accounting profit before tax 339 389 Applicable tax rate 34.94% 34.61% Computed tax expense 119 135 Adjustment of tax relating to earlier years (3) (27) Dividend income exempt from income tax (12) (13) Allowance of certain claims favourably by the income tax authorities for earlier years (111) (14) Effect of allowances on expenditure during tax holiday period 21 (24) Amortisation of goodwill in books considered as not deductible in provision for tax 18 16 Recognition of deferred tax credit on account of application of indexation benefit (45) on 'Land' Realisation of brought forward long term capital loss not recognised in the books (11) due to prudence Other non-deductible expenses for tax purposes (2) 1 Change in deferred tax balances due to change in income tax rates 2 14 Others 14 10 (10) 98 (iii) Deferred tax:  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Deferred tax relates to the following: Property, plant and equipment (including goodwill and other intangible assets) 2,707 2,647 Others 6 33 Less: Provisions, trade payables and other current liabilities 56 38 Carry forward of tax losses/ unabsorbed depreciation 1,054 997 Others 36 17 MAT credit entitlement 288 235 Net deferred tax asset/(liability) 1,279 1,393 The Group offsets tax assets and liabilities if and only if it has a legally enforceable right to set off deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority. The management at the end of each reporting period, asseses Group’s ability to recognise deferred tax assets on tax losses and unabsorbed depreciation carried forward, taking into account forecasts of future taxable profits and the law and jurisdiction of the taxable items and the assumptions on which these projections are based.The management based on the future profitability projections, is confident that there would be sufficient taxable profits in the future which will enable the company to utilise the above MAT credit entitlement, unabsorbed depreciation and carry forward business lossess. The amortisation of goodwill arising pursuant to Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation has been treated as deductible expenses under section 32 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 on the basis of Judicial pronouncements and legal opinion obtained by the DCBL (subsidiary of the Company) Annual Report 2018-19 | 251 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 17. Government grant (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 (i) Deferred capital investment subsidy(Refer sub note (a) below) Opening 77 80 Received during the year (0) 1 Released to the statement of profit and loss (2) (4) Adjustment on account of short approval of the subsidy claim (6) Closing 69 77 (ii) Deferred export promotion capital goods(Refer sub note (b) below) Opening 18 6 Accrual during the year 12 Released to the statement of profit and loss (13) Other adjustment (4) Closing 1 18 (iii) Deferred government grant(Refer sub note (c) below) Opening 47 34 Accrual during the year 17 Released to the statement of profit and loss 17 (4) Other adjustment (5) Closing 59 47 Total (i)+(ii)+(iii) 129 142 Non current 119 120 Current 10 22 (a) The Group has received grant towards capital investment under ‘State Investment Promotion Scheme’ as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or for the purpose of giving immediate financial support to the Group with no future related costs. The grant is recognised in statement of profit and loss on a systematic basis over the useful life of the assets. (b) The Group has deferred export promotion capital goods obligation to the extent of custom duty saved on plant and machinery imported on fulfilment of conditions i.e. export of goods to be made to customers within specified period. Such custom duty saved on plant and machinery imported is recognised as deferred government grant. Since the condition is on achievement of specified conditions, therefore deferred revenue will be released to statement of profit and loss when the exports are made by the Group. (c) The benefit of a government loan at below current market rate of interest is treated as a government grant. The loan is recognised and measured in accordance with Ind AS 109. The benefit of the below market rate of interest/ interest free loans is measured as the difference between the initial carrying value of the loan determined in accordance with Ind AS 109 (at Fair Value) and the proceeds received. Government grant is recognised in the statement of profit and loss on a systematic basis over the period of the loan during which the entity recognises as interest expense, the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate. 18. Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Secured A. Cash credit from banks 51 8 B. Working capital loan from banks 0 C. Foreign currency loan from banks Buyer's Credit 276 445 Supplier's Credit 18 Packing credit foreign currency 3 8 Total (A) 348 461 252 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 18. Financial liabilities (contd.) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Unsecured D. From others 16 7 E. Commercial papers 544 395 Total (B) 560 402 Total short term borrowings (A+B) 908 863 A) Cash credit from banks referred to in A above to the extent of: H49 (March 31, 2017 H4) are secured by hypothecation of inventories and other assets in favor of participating working capital consortiums bankers ranking pari pasu on inter se basis repayable in next one year and carry interest rate in the range of 8.50% p.a. to 10.35% p.a. (March 31, 2018: 9.60% p.a. to 11.00% p.a.). H2 (March 2017 : H4) are primarily secured by hypothecation charge on the current assets Alsthom Industries Limited both present and future and collaterally secured by Factory Land and building, all plant & Machineries and other movable assets of the company both present and future. This loan carries an interest rate of 0.15% above 1 year MCLR (presently: 8.55%) and is repayable on demand. B) Working capital loan from banks referred to in B above to the extent of: HNil (March 31, 2018: H0) were secured by way of first pari passu charge over all current assets of unit of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited situated at Jharkhand Cement Works, Bokaro and carrying interest @ 8.35% p.a. C) Foreign currency loans from banks referred to in C above to the extent of: i) H276 (March 31, 2018 H326) are secured by consortium bankers on the security of hypothecation of inventories and trade receivables in their favor ranking pari pasu on inter se basis repayable in less than one year and carry 3 months/6 months/12 months LIBOR plus 0.17% to 1.05% (presently 2.82% p.a. to 3.92% p.a.)(March 31, 2018 : 1.72% p.a. to 2.47% p.a.). ii) HNil (March 31, 2018: H119) are secured by first -pari passu charge over stocks, stores, raw materials, inventories, work in progress, finished goods and also book debts, bills and money receivables of the units of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited situated at Rajgangpur Cement Works (Odisha), Kapilas Cement Manufacturing Works (Cuttack) and OCL Bengal Cement Works (Midnapore, West Bengal) by way of hypothecation. These facilities are further secured by second charge over the fixed assets of the cement units of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited situated at Rajgangpur Cement Works (Odisha), Kapilas Cement Manufacturing Works (Cuttack) and OCL Bengal Cement Works (Midnapore, West Bengal). The interest rate was the range of 0.22% p.a. to 2.77% p.a. iii) HNil (March 31, 2018: H8) were secured by first paripassu charge over stocks, stores, raw materials, inventories, work in progress, finished goods and also book debts, bills and money receivables of the units situated at Rajgangpur, Kapilas Cement Manufacturing Works (Cuttack) and OCL Bengal Cement Works (Midnapore, West Bengal) by way of hypothecation. These facilities were further secured by second charge over the fixed assets of the cement units of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited situated at Rajgangpur Cement Works (Odisha), Kapilas Cement Manufacturing Works (Cuttack) and OCL Bengal Cement Works (Midnapore, West Bengal). These packing credit foreign currency loan carried the interest rate of 1.67% p.a. to 4.50% p.a. iv) H3 (March 31, 2018: HNil) are secured by letter of credit issued by consortium bankers on the security of hypothecation of inventories and trade receivables of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited in their favour ranking paripasu on inter se basis repayable in less than one year. These packing credit foreign currency loan carry the interest rate of 2.00% p.a. to 4.74% p.a. v) H18 (March 31, 2018: HNil) are secured by consortium bankers on the security of hypothecation of inventories and trade receivables in their favour ranking paripasu on inter se basis repayable in less than one year and carry interest rate at 12 months LIBOR plus 0.40% p.a. (presently 3.05% p.a.). D) Loan from others referred to in D above are payable on demand and carry interest @ 9%-18% p.a. (18%) p.a. E) Commercial papers referred to in E above are payable in three months and carry interest rate in the range of 7.40% to 7.70% p.a. (March 31, 2018: 6.90% to 7.57% p.a.). Annual Report 2018-19 | 253 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 18. Financial liabilities (contd.) (ii) Trade payables (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises (Refer note 35) 6 6 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises* 871 922 877 928 *Trade payable include due to related parties H3 (March 31, 2018: HNil) (refer note 36) (iii) Other financial liabilities  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Current maturities of long term borrowings 955 944 Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 43 52 Interest accrued and due on borrowings 29 10 Security deposit received 403 485 Payables for purchase of property, plant and equipment 121 23 Directors' commission payable 2 2 Unclaimed dividend* 4 4 Purchase consideration payable** 41 41 Derivative liability 3 0 Accrued employee liabilities 26 19 Other liabilities 55 4 1,682 1,584 * During the year H0.42 has been transferred to deposit in Investor Education & Protection Fund ** Purchase consideration payable include: 1. As part of the purchase agreement with Calcom Cement India Limited, a contingent consideration of H30 (March 31, 2018: H30) has been agreed. (refer note 34(b) for terms and conditions). 2. H11 (March 31, 2018: H11) towards purchase consideration payable against earlier years. (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost Trade payables 877 928 Borrowings 908 863 Current maturities of long term borrowings 955 944 Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 43 52 Interest accrued and due on borrowings 29 10 Security deposit received 403 485 Payables for purchase of property, plant and equipment 121 23 Directors' commission payable 2 2 Unclaimed dividend 4 4 Purchase consideration payable** 41 41 Accrued employee liabilities 26 19 Other liabilities 55 4 3,465 3,375 Financial liabilities carried at fair value through profit and loss Derivative liability 3 0 3 0 254 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 19. Other current liabilities  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Advances from customers 127 91 Liability towards dealer incentive * 83 52 Provident fund guarantee Interest payable 1 1 Other liabilities Statutory dues 435 306 Others 35 48 681 498 * Liability towards dealer incentive relates to the accrual and release of in-kind discount. As at March 31, 2019, the estimated liability towards in-kind discount amounts to H83 (March 31, 2018: H52). 20(a) Provisions  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Provision for employee benefits 53 37 Provision for mines reclamation liability (refer note no, 41) 3 Provision for export promotion capital goods (refer note no, 41) 31 28 Provision for contingencies (refer note no, 41) 1 4 88 69 20(b) Current tax liabilities  (Amount in H) As at As at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Provision for tax 51 2 51 2 21. Revenue from operations  (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Sale of products* Finished goods Cement and its related products 8,581 7,666 Refractories 555 404 Power 14 13 Traded goods 24 173 9,174 8,256 Management services 19 24 Sales Tax incentive/ VAT remission/ GST remission 218 451 Government grant 12 Other operating revenue 61 96 9,484 8,827 * Revenue from operations for periods upto June 30, 2017 includes excise duty. From July 1, 2017 onwards, the excise duty and most indirect taxes in India have been replaced by Goods and Service Tax (GST). The Group collects GST on behalf of the Government. Hence, GST is not included in Revenue from operations. In view of the aforesaid change in indirect taxes, revenue from operations for the year ended March 31, 2018 is not comparable with that of the previous year. Annual Report 2018-19 | 255 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 21. Revenue from operations (contd.) (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 a. Revenue from contracts with customers disaggregated based on nature of product or services Revenue from sale of products (including excise duty) Cement and its related products 8,581 7,666 Refractories 555 404 Power 14 13 Traded Sales 24 173 Other operating revenues Management service charges 19 24 Other operating revenue 61 96 9,254 8,376 Set out below is the revenue from contracts with customers and reconciliation to profit and loss account Total revenue from contracts with customers 9,254 8,376 Add: Items not included in disaggregated revenue: Sales Tax incentive/ VAT remission/ GST remission 218 451 Government grant 12 Revenue from contracts with customer as per the statement of profit and loss 9,484 8,827 b. Contract balance The following table provides information about receivables, contract assets and contract liabilities from contracts with customers: Contract Assets Trade receivables (refer note 9(ii)) 549 564 Contract liabilities Advances from customers (refer note 19) 127 91 22. Other income (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Dividend income from non-current investments 12 21 from current investments 2 7 Interest Income 150 109 Profit on sale of Investments 186 110 Less: Loss on sale of investment 1 185 0 110 Fair value gain/(reversal) on current investment (114) 27 Exchange difference (net) 9 0 244 274 23. Cost of raw materials consumed (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Opening stock 159 117 Add: Purchases* 1,867 1,385 Less: Closing stock 232 159 1,794 1,343 * Net of reversal of earlier years provision of HNil (March 31, 2018: H18) related to contribution towards District Mineral Fund (DMF) under the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015, on the basis of Hon'ble Supreme Court Judgement dated October 13, 2017. 256 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 24. Change in inventories of finished goods and work in progress  (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Finished goods Closing stock 141 109 Opening stock 109 129 Less: Transferred to self consumption 1 108 1 128 (33) 19 Work-in-process Closing stock 76 54 Opening stock 54 53 (22) (1) Stock in trade Closing stock 92 Opening stock (92) (Increase) / Decrease (147) 18 25. Employee benefits expense  (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Salaries, wages and bonus 556 527 Expenses on employees stock options scheme 5 6 Gratuity expense 17 9 Contribution to provident fund and other funds 34 35 Workmen and staff welfare expenses 36 32 648 609 26. Finance costs (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Interest On term loans and debentures 448 503 On short term borrowings 56 81 On defined benefit obligation 3 3 Others (including interest on income tax of H3 (March 31,2018: H(-)1)* (3) 15 Other borrowing cost 12 53 Exchange differences to the extent considered as an adjustment to borrowing cost (net) 35 38 551 693 * net of reversal of interest liability of H39 (March 31, 2018: H14) provided in earlier years. Interest expense of H10 (March 31, 2018: HNil) is capitalised during the year. 27. Other expenses (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Packing materials 362 321 Consumption of stores and spare parts 50 40 Repairs and maintenance : Plant & machinery 209 207 Buildings 15 14 Rent 55 46 Rates and taxes 11 18 Annual Report 2018-19 | 257 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 27. Other expenses (contd.) (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Insurance 6 11 Depot expenses 125 108 Professional charges 96 78 Advertisement and publicity 220 177 Rebate and discounts 4 1 Excise duty variation on opening/closing inventories (17) Corporate social responsibility expense 7 12 Bad debts/ advances written off 3 Less: Impairment allowance for doubtful debts/ advances adjusted (2) 1 2 out of above Impairment allowance for doubtful debts/ advances 4 3 Miscellaneous expenses* 359 369 1,524 1,390 * Also refer note 42 for remuneration of auditors. 28. Earning per share (Amount in H) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Basic EPS Net profit for calculation of basic EPS (H) 308 292 Total number of equity shares outstanding at the end of the year 19,29,58,553 19,27,27,553 Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating Basic EPS 19,27,47,805 19,24,05,978 Basic EPS (In Rupees) 15.97 15.18 Diluted EPS Net profit for calculation of diluted EPS (H) 308 292 Weighted average number of equity shares for calculation of diluted EPS 19,27,47,805 19,24,05,978 Add: Weighted average number of potential equity shares 2,92,964 10,38,094 Weighted average number of equity shares for calculation of diluted EPS 19,30,40,769 19,34,44,071 Diluted EPS (In Rupees) 15.95 15.10 29. Disclosure of significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Group's financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods. Judgements, estimates and assumptions The judgements and key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are described below. The Group based its judgements, assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to market changes or circumstances arising that are beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when they occur. Significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are as specified below:Share-based payments The Group initially measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees using Black-Scholes model to determine the fair value of the liability incurred. Estimating fair value for equity-based payment transactions requires determination of the 258 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 29. Disclosure of significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions (contd.) most appropriate valuation model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option, volatility, risk free rate, expected dividend yield, market price and exercise price and making assumptions about them. For equity-settled share-based payment transactions, the liability needs to be disclosed at the carrying amount at end of each reporting period up to the date of settlement. The assumptions and models used for estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions are disclosed in note 31. Change in assumptions for estimating fair value of share-based payment transactions is expected to have insignificant impact on income statement. Income Taxes Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the losses can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies. To determine the future taxable profits, reference is made to the latest available profit forecasts. The Group is having brought forward losses and unabsorbed depreciation that may be used to offset taxable income. MAT credit entitlement is recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the MAT credit can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required to determine the amount of MAT credit that can be recognised, based upon the likely timing and the level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies. Change in estimate Deferred tax credit for the current year includes H45 on account of change in assumptions pertaining to 'Land' as per the provisions of Ind-AS 12 'Income Taxes'. Defined benefit plans (gratuity benefits) The cost of the defined benefit gratuity plan and the present value of the gratuity obligation are determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, expected rate of return on assets, future salary increases and mortality rates. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. The parameter most subject to change is the discount rate. In determining the appropriate discount rate for plans operated in India, the management considers the interest rates of government bonds in currencies consistent with the currencies of the post-employment benefit obligation. The mortality rate is based on mortality rates from Indian Assures Lives Mortality 2006-08. Those mortality tables tend to change only at interval in response to demographic changes. Future salary increases and gratuity increases are based on expected future inflation rates. Further details about gratuity obligations are given in note 30. Fair value measurement of financial instruments When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the DCF model. The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing fair values. Judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. See note 37 and 39 for further disclosures. Provision for mines reclamation The Group has recognised a provision for mine reclamation until the closure of mine. In determining the fair value of the provision, assumptions and estimates are made in relation to the expected future inflation rates, discount rate, expected cost of reclamation of mines, expected balance of reserves available in mines and the expected life of mines. The carrying amount of the provision as at March 31, 2019 is H46 (March 31, 2018: H31). The Group estimates that the costs would be incurred in 1 years48 years for different mines upon the closure of mines and calculates the provision using the DCF method based on discount rate of 7.73% to 7.81%. Annual Report 2018-19 | 259 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 29. Disclosure of significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions (contd.) Property, plant and equipment The Group uses its technical expertise along with historical and industry trends for determining the economic life of an asset/ component of an asset. The useful lives are reviewed by management periodically and revised, if appropriate. In case of a revision, the unamortised depreciable amount is charged over the remaining useful life of the assets. Change in estimate During the year, Company has reviewed its available mining reserves and accordingly revised the estimate for available mining reserves. Accordingly, amortisation expense for the year is lower by H2. Impairment of property, plant and equipment Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. The fair value less costs of disposal calculation is based on available data from binding sales transactions, conducted at arm’s length, for similar assets or observable market prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The value in use calculation is based on a DCF model. The cash flows are derived based on remaining useful life of the respective assets. The recoverable amount is sensitive to the discount rate used for the DCF model as well as the expected future cash-inflows and the growth rate used for extrapolation purposes. There is impairment loss of HNil (H0) recognised for the year ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018. Revenue recognition – Non-cash incentives given to customers The Group estimates the fair value of non-cash incentives awarded by applying market rate offered by vendors to the group. The assumption for determining fair value of non-cash incentives is based on the market rate of such schemes. As at March 31, 2019, the estimated liability towards non-cash incentive amounted to H83 (March 31, 2018: H70). Change in assumptions for estimating fair value of non-cash incentives does not have any significant impact on income statement. Subsidies receivable The Group is entitled to various subsidies from Government in the form of government grant and recognize amount receivable and it is reasonably certain that the ultimate collection will be made from government as subsidy receivable when the Group is entitled to receive it to match them with expenses incurred for which they are intended to compensate. The Group records subsidy receivable by discounting it to its present value. The Group uses assumptions in respect of discount rate and estimated time for receipt of funds from government. The Group reviews its assumptions periodically, including at each financial year end. Change in estimate The Group estimates expected date of receipt of subsidy based on approval accorded from State Level Committee. Based on its past experience and inputs from business environment, the Management assessed that in event of clearance of approval from State Level Committee, the expected period of receipt of subsidy shall be 1.5 years for the subsidy accrued on or after April 1, 2017 and 2.5 years in case the subsidy was accrued on or before March 31, 2017 and in other cases, expected period of recovery will be 3.5 years from the date of accrual of subsidy in case subsidy is accrued on or before March 31, 2017 and 2.5 years for the subsidy accrued on or after April 1, 2017. Impairment of financial assets The impairment provisions for financial assets disclosed in note 5 and 9 are based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates. The Company uses judgement in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Company's past history, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates at the end of each reporting period. 30. Gratuity and Other Post Employment Benefit Plans Gratuity The Group has a defined benefit gratuity plan. The gratuity is governed by the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Under the Act employee who has completed five years of service is entitled to gratuity on departure at 15 days salary (last drawn salary) for each completed year of service. The Scheme is funded through Gratuity Fund Trust (except in case of certain employees of one of the subsidiary company of DCBL) with an insurance company in the form of a qualifying insurance policy. The Trust is responsible for the administration of the plan assets and for the determination of investment strategy. The Group makes provision of such gratuity asset/ liability in the books of account on the basis of actuarial valuation carried out by an independent actuary. 260 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 30. Gratuity and Other Post Employment Benefit Plans (contd.) Provident Fund (‘PF’) The Group contributes provident fund liability to Dalmia Cement Provident Fund Trust (except in case of certain employees of one of the subsidiary company of DCBL). As per the Guidance Note on implementing notified AS 15, Employee Benefits issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA), provident funds set up by the employers, which require interest shortfall to be met by the employer, needs to be treated as defined benefit plan. The following tables summarize the components of net employee benefit expenses recognized in the Statement of Profit and Loss and the funded status and amounts recognized in the balance sheet for the above mentioned plan. Statement of Profit and Loss Net employee benefit expenses (recognised in Employee Benefits Expenses) (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded/Partly Funded) PF (Funded/Partly Funded) 2018-19 2017-18 2018-19 2017-18 Current service cost 17 9 16 10 Net Interest cost 2 2 1 1 Net benefit expense 19 11 17 11 Change in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2019 (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded) PF Trust (Funded) Defined Fair value Net Defined Fair value Net benefit of plan obligation benefit of plan obligation obligation assets obligation assets (A) (B) (A-B) (A) (B) (A-B) April 1, 2018 (1) 70 43 27 138 136 2 Service cost (2) 17 17 16 16 Net interest expense/ (income) (3) 5 2 3 16 15 1 Sub-total included in profit or loss (note 22 2 20 32 15 17 26) (2+3)=(4)* Re-measurements Return on plan assets (excluding amounts 2 (2) 1 (1) included in net interest expense) (5) (Gain)/loss from changes in demographic assumptions (6) (Gain)/loss from changes in financial 8 8 assumptions (6A) Experience (gains)/losses (7) 25 25 2 2 Sub-total (5+6+6A+7)=(8) 33 2 31 2 1 1 Expenses/(Income) included in OCI out of 32 2 31 2 1 1 (8) above** Contributions by employer (9) 16 (16) Contribution by plan participation/ 30 30 employees (10) Acquisition adjustments (10A)*** 17 17 Settlements/ (Transfer in) (11) 40 40 Benefits paid (12) (5) (5) (46) (46) Sub-total (9+10+10A+11+12)=(13) 12 (5) 17 24 40 (16) March 31, 2019 (1+4+8+13) 137 42 95 196 192 4 *Includes H2 recognised in capital work in progress. ** Includes H0 recognised in capital work in progress. *** Related to Dalmia DSP Limited acquired on 10th July 2018. Annual Report 2018-19 | 261 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 30. Gratuity and Other Post Employment Benefit Plans (contd.) Change in the defined benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets as at March 31, 2018 (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded) PF Trust (Funded) Defined Fair value of Net Defined Fair value of Net benefit plan assets obligation benefit plan assets obligation obligation obligation (A) (B) (A-B) (A) (B) (A-B) April 1, 2017 (1) 66 42 24 87 86 1 Service cost (2) 9 9 10 10 Net interest expense/ (income) (3) 5 3 2 9 8 1 Sub-total included in profit or loss 14 3 11 19 8 11 (note 26) (2+3)=(4) Re-measurements Return on plan assets (excluding 1 (1) amounts included in net interest expense) (5) (Gain)/loss from changes in demographic assumptions (6) (Gain)/loss from changes in (1) (1) financial assumptions (6A) Experience (gains)/losses (7) (4) (4) 1 1 Sub-total (5+6+6A+7)=(8) (5) (5) 1 1 (0) Expenses/(Income) included in (5) (5) 1 1 (0) OCI out of (8) above Contributions by employer (9) 2 (2) 10 (10) Contribution by plan participation/ 16 16 employees (10) Acquisition adjustments (10A) Settlements/ (Transfer in) (11) 22 22 Benefits paid (12) (5) (4) (1) (7) (7) Sub-total (9+10+10A+11+12)=(13) (5) (2) (3) 31 41 (10) March 31, 2018 (1+4+8+13) 70 43 27 138 136 2 The Group expects to contribute H80 (March 31, 2018: H29) and H13 (March 31, 2018: H7) to gratuity and PF respectively in 201920. The major categories of plan assets of the fair value of the total plan assets of Gratuity and PF are as follows: (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded/Partly Funded) PF (Funded/Partly Funded) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Unquoted investments: Insurance Company Products 42 43 Government securities / Equity shares/ 192 136 Corporate bonds/Special Deposit schemes as defined under Specified rules Total 42 43 192 136 262 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 30. Gratuity and Other Post Employment Benefit Plans (contd.) The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity and PF for the Group are shown below:  (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded/Partly Funded) PF (Funded/Partly Funded) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 % % % % Discount rate 7.25% 7.90% 6.89%-7.5% 6.89% to 7.95% Future salary increases 6%-7% 6%-9% Guaranteed interest rate 8.65% 8.65% Mortality Table IALM (2006-08) IALM (2006-08) IALM (2006-08) IALM (2006-08) duly modified duly modified duly modified duly modified A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 is as shown below: Gratuity Plan: (Amount in H) Assumption Discount rate Future salary increases Sensitivity Level 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% decrease 1% increase March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Impact on defined benefit 6 6 (6) (5) (6) (5) 6 6 obligation Impact on defined benefit 4% 9% -4% -7% -4% -7% 4% 9% obligation (Change in %) PF: (Amount in H) Assumption Discount rate Interest rate guarantee Sensitivity Level 1% Decrease 1% Increase 1% decrease 1% increase March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Impact on defined benefit 6 4 (2) (2) (4) (2) 6 8 obligation Impact on defined benefit 3% 3% -1% -1% -2% -1% 3% 6% obligation (Change in %) The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. The following payments are expected contributions to the defined benefit plan in future years: (Amount in H) Gratuity (Funded/Partly funded) PF (Funded/Partly funded) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Within the next 12 months (next annual 49 16 84 51 reporting period) Between 2 and 5 years 58 27 57 29 Between 5 and 10 years 46 32 51 55 Beyond 10 years 45 68 0 102 Total expected payments 198 143 192 237 Duration of the defined benefit plan obligation for gratuity at the end of the reporting period is 5-13 years (March 31, 2018: 4-14 years) and for PF at the end of the reporting period is 6 years (March 31, 2018: 4-9 years). Annual Report 2018-19 | 263 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 30. Gratuity and Other Post Employment Benefit Plans (contd.) Risk Exposure Through its defined benefit plans, the Group is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below:Asset Volatility The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to bond yields, if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The plan asset investments is in insurance company products and in government securities. The investments are expected to earn a return in excess of the discount rate and contribute to the plan deficit. Asset liability matching risk The Group ensures that the investment positions are managed within an asset-liability matching (ALM) framework that has been developed to achieve long-term investments that are in line with the obligations under the employee benefit plans. Within this framework, the Group’s ALM objective is to match assets to the pension obligations by investing in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due and in the appropriate currency. Liquidity Risk The Group actively monitors how the duration and the expected yield of investments are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the employee benefit obligations. The Group has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from previous periods. 31. Share – based payments Employee stock option scheme 2011“ESOP 2011”was approved by the shareholders of the company in their meeting held on 26th May, 2011. The Company has granted 17,65,000 options to eligible employees of the company including employees of subsidiary company. Company had adopted a new ESOP Scheme namely DBL ESOP Scheme 2018 pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation amongst Odisha Cement Limited, Dalmia Bharat Limited and Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited and their respective shareholders and creditors. As per the said new ESOP Scheme, DBL granted 2 (Two) new stock options (‘New Options’) to the eligible employees of Company in lieu of every 1 (one) stock option held by them under DBEL ESOP Scheme 2011 (whether vested or unvested). The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the share options were granted. However, the above performance condition is only considered in determining the number of instruments that will ultimately vest. Options have been granted with vesting period of 5 years on the basis of graded vesting and are exercisable for a period of 3 years once vested. There are no cash settlement alternatives. The Company does not have a past practice of cash settlement for these share options. The expense recognised for employee services received during the year is shown in the following table: (Amount in H) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 5 6 Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 5 6 264 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 31. Share – based payments (contd.) Movements during the year The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year: March 31, 2019 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 Number WAEP Number WAEP Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5,85,000 332.36 8,20,500 287.40 Cancelled pursuant to Scheme of (5,85,000) 332.36 Arrangement and Amalgamation Granted during the year Granted during the year pursuant to DBL 11,70,000 166.18 ESOP Scheme 2018 Exercised during the year (2,31,000)1 157.21 (1,87,500)2 193.68 Expired/ Lapsed during the year (48,000) 105.50 Outstanding at the end of the year 9,39,000 168.39 5,85,000 332.36 1 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options is Rupees 1214.40. 2 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise of these options is Rupees 2641.20. The weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding as at March 31, 2019 is 4.81 years (March 31, 2018: 5.5 years). The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year is H108.62 to H191.77 (March 31, 2018 : Rupees 217.23 to Rupees 383.53) The following table list the inputs to the models used for the plan for the year ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018:Grant 1 Grant 2 Grant 3 Dividend yield (%) 1.42 0.40 0.21 Volatility (%) 42.76 48.58 46.92 Risk–free interest rate (%) 8.16 7.71 7.54 Average expected life of options (years) 4.50 4.53 4.51 Weighted average share price (H) 105.95 502.05 713.80 Date of grant May 18, 2012 January 29, 2015 February 03, 2016 Model used Black Scholes Black Scholes Black Scholes Model Model Model 32. Lease A. Operating leaseAssets taken on lease The group has entered into cancellable lease agreements with an average life up to ten years with renewal option at the mutual consent of lessor & lessee. Some of the lease agreements contain escalation clause of upto 10%. There are no restrictions placed upon the group by entering into these leases. (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Lease payments for the year 55 46 Total 55 46 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at March 31 are as follows:Future minimum lease payments March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Not later than one year 3 2 Later than one year and not later than five years 5 5 Later than five years 1 Total 8 8 Annual Report 2018-19 | 265 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 32. Lease (contd.) B. Finance Lease -Group as Lessor The DCBL (Subsidiary Company) had purchased wagons under own your wagon scheme of Railways and leased it to Railways on rent, the wagons were recognised as assets and carried in the books at written down value, the Company is earning rental income from the arrangement, hence it qualifies to be recognised as finance lease arrangement where Railways is the lessee. Future minimum lease receivables (MLR) and its present value under finance leases are as follows: (Amount in H) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Minimum lease Present Minimum lease Present receivables value of MLP receivables value of MLP Within one year After one year but not more than five years more than five years Unguaranteed residual values 1 1 1 1 Total minimum lease payments 1 1 1 1 Less: amounts representing finance charges Present value of minimum lease payments 1 1 1 1 C. Finance LeaseGroup as Lessee The Company has finance lease arrangements for printers and land at various locations. These leases have term of between 5 and 99 years and are eligible for renewal at the end of lease term. Future minimum lease payments (MLP) and its present value under finance leases are as follows - (Amount in H) March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Minimum lease Present Minimum lease Present payments value of MLP payments value of MLP Within one year 2 1 1 1 After one year but not more than five years 2 1 3 2 more than five years 7 0 7 0 Total minimum lease payments 11 2 11 3 Less: Amount representing interest (9) (8) Present value of minimum lease payments 2 2 3 3 33. Capital and Other commitments (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 A) Estimated amount of contracts remaining to be executed on capital account and not provided for (net of advances) In respect of Parent 1 1 In respect of Subsidiaries 614 184 B) Other Commitments a) Commitment towards forestry department as per the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 In respect of Parent In respect of Subsidiaries 32 32 b) Commitment for revival/ acquisition of Dalmia DSP Limited (Formerly known as Kalyanpur Cements Limited) to the Resolution Professional pursuant to the provisions of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (net of payments of H42.78) In respect of Parent In respect of Subsidiaries 310 266 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 33. Capital and Other commitments (contd.) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 c) Corporate guarantee given by subsidiary of the company to a bank on behalf of subsidiary company namely Rajputana Properties Private Limited for issuance of Performance Bank Guarantee (‘PBG’) by such bank in respect of Resolution Plan submitted for acquisition of Binani Cement Limited under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 In respect of Parent In respect of Subsidiaries 652 d) Corporate guarantee given by the Company to a bank for issuance of bank guarantee on behalf of subsidiary company namely Rajputana Properties Private Limited towards grant of mining lease In respect of Parent In respect of Subsidiaries 12 e) Estimated future investments in Alternative Investment Fund in terms of agreement with the fund. In respect of Parent In respect of Subsidiaries 4 f) Other commitmentstowards contractual and other payments, which does not have any bearing on the results for the current and previous year. In respect of Parent In respect of Subsidiaries 31 31 C) Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited, a subsidiary of the company, during the previous year, had filed Resolution Plan (RP) pursuant to the provisions of IBC to the Resolution Professional appointed for revival of Murli Industries Limited (MIL) which is recommended by the Committee of Creditors to the National Company Law Tribunal, Mumbai Bench for its approval. Following receipt of requisite approvals, RP provides for payment of H402 to MIL creditors by the Company. Further, Company has given a bank guarantee of H50 as per RP. The matter is currently in the NCLT, Mumbai Bench. 34. Contingent liabilities / Litigations in respect of : (A) Not provided for: Parent Company (Amount in H) S. No. Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 a) Contingent liabilities / Litigations Nil Nil Subsidiaries (Amount in H) S. No. Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 a) Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts 292 212 b) Demand raised by following authorities in dispute: Excise & Service Tax 67 81 Customs 39 0 Sales Tax / Entry Tax / Purchase Tax 110 113 Income tax matters 42 73 c) Other monies for which Group is contingently liable 2 2 Total 552 481 Based on favourable decisions in similar cases, legal opinion taken by the Group, discussions with the solicitors etc., the Group believes that there is a fair chance of favourable decisions in respect of the items listed above and hence no provision is considered necessary against the same. (B) The Group’s subsidiary Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited (DCBL) holds 76% shares in one of its subsidiary Company Calcom Cement India Ltd. (CCIL), where Bawri Group (BG), other shareholder, holds 21% (approx.) voting rights. During the year Annual Report 2018-19 | 267 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 34. Contingent liabilities / Litigations in respect of : (contd.) 2015-16, DCBL alleged that BG had defaulted in completion of certain obligations under the Shareholders Agreement/ Articles of Association (referred as Inter-se Agreement or ‘ISA’) and sent notice to BG seeking remedies under the terms of ISA. In response thereto, BG denied the responsibility of completion of the said obligations and further filed a petition before the Company Law Board, Kolkata (CLB) under Sections 397 and 398 of the Companies Act 1956 alleging oppression and mismanagement by the Company. BG prayed CLB, along with other non-financial matters, to get the CCIL suitably compensated for such sums as may be found due. On constitution of National Company Law Tribunal (‘NCLT’), the case was referred to it. NCLT, Guwahati Branch, has concluded in response to an application filed under Section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 by Company, vide its order dated January 5, 2017, that the said 397/398 petition is dressed up petition and therefore, disposed of the same and vacated all the interims orders. Further, NCLT referred both the parties to arbitration for settlement of their commercial disputes and the matter is still pending disposal before the Arbitral Tribunal. The management of CCIL denied the allegations as all such transactions have been prudently made in the ordinary course of business, on arms-length basis, in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and in the larger commercial interest of the subsidiary company of DCBL. BG has filed petitions before the Hon`ble High Court Guwahati challenging the order of NCLT. Interim order issued by Guwahati High Court in the said petition has been vacated by the Supreme Court in May 2017 and the petitions are pending adjudication before the Guwahati High Court. Pending final disposal of the disputes, no adjustments are considered necessary in the financial statements. (C) (i) Income tax department had carried out search operation in the office premises of Meghalaya unit of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited on March 11, 2016 (concluded on May 03, 2016), consequent to which assessment orders under Section 153(A)/143(3) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 have been passed on December 30, 2018 from AY 2011-12 to 201718 and there is no additional income tax liability. However, unabsorbed depreciation has been reduced on account of addition of H42 made in AY 2011-12 and against the same, an appeal has filed before appellate authority. (ii) The income tax department had carried out search operation in the office premises of the Calcom Cement India Limited (a step down subsidiary) on March 11, 2016. Consequently, It had received notice under section 153A of the income tax act, 1961 to file returns –for the assessment years from AY 2010-11 to 2017-18 under block assessment which were duly filed. The final assessment orders under section 153(A) and 143(3) of the income tax act,1961 have been passed on December 31, 2018 for eight assessment years (i.e., from AY 2010-11 to 2017-18) by the income tax department and there is no additional income tax liability. However, the income tax department had reduced the amount of brought forward losses by disallowing /making additions of H10. CCIL has filed appeals before CIT(A)-1, Guwhati against the AY 2010-11 and AY 17-18 involving amount H8. Further, the Group has not adjusted the above amount while computing income tax/deferred tax liability since the Group has been legally opined that above addition may not be tenable. (D) The Group’s subsidiary Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited had received summons from the Court of Principal Special Judge for CBI cases Hyderabad, under Section 120 (b) read with Section 420 of Indian Penal Code. The investigating agency has alleged that the Group’s investment in Bharthi Cement and acquisition of Eswar Cements Private Limited were made for the benefit of an influential person in the State, prime accused in the case, as a quid pro quo for grant of prospecting license over certain limestone bearing land in the State of Andhra Pradesh. However, both the investments made by Dalmia Bharat Sugar and Industries Limited were genuine investments as permitted under that Company’s Memorandum and Articles of association and duly approved by their Board of Directors. The proceedings are still at the preliminary stage and in the opinion of the Group, no adverse impact is expected to devolve on the management on conclusion of such proceedings. (E) There are numerous interpretative issues relating to the Supreme Court (SC) judgement dated February 28, 2019 on Provident Fund (PF) on the inclusion of allowances for the purpose of PF contribution as well as its applicability of effective date. The Company is evaluating and seeking legal inputs regarding various interpretative issues and its impact. 268 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 34. Contingent liabilities / Litigations in respect of : (contd.) F) Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited (DCBL), subsidiary of the Company, had acquired Kalyanpur Cements Limited (KCL) pursuant to the provisions of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 (“IBC”). DCBL have invested H150 Crore as fresh equity in KCL. KCL had become the wholly owned subsidiary of the DCBL w.e.f. 10th July 2018 and has been renamed as Dalmia DSP Limited (“DDSPL”). Accounting to give effect of Approved resolution plan is considered by Dalmia DSP Limited and Consolidated financial statements include the financial results for Dalmia DSP Limited w.e.f. July 10, 2018. DDSPL, under the new Management, has paid/settled dues to secured financial creditors, unsecured financial creditors, employees and workmen, statutory authorities and operational Creditors as per the approved Resolution Plan. As per the approved Resolution Plan, contingent liabilities (which have / are capable of being crystallized) period prior to the Effective Date stand extinguished. The implementation of the Resolution Plan does not have any effect over claims or receivables owed to the DDSPL. 35. Details of dues to Micro and Small Enterprises as per MSMED Act, 2006 :- (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as 6 6 at the end of each accounting year The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16, of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day during each accounting year The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 0 (which have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the interest specified under Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006. The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting 0 0 year; and The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 0 0 years, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 36. Related Party transactions A) List of related parties along with nature and volume of transactions is given below: i. Key Management Personnel/ Director of the Group Shri Jai Hari Dalmia – NonExecutive Director(w.e.f October 30, 2018)*, Shri Yadu Hari DalmiaNonExecutive Director(w.e.f October 30, 2018)*, Shri Gautam DalmiaManaging Director(w.e.f October 30, 2018)**, Shri Puneet Yadu Dalmia – Managing Director(w.e.f October 30, 2018)**, Shri D.N. DavarNonExecutive Director, Shri Jayesh DoshiWhole time Director & CFO, Shri P.K. KhaitanIndependent Director, Shri N. GopalaswamyIndependent Director, Shri V.S. JainIndependent Director, Smt. Sudha PillaiIndependent Director and Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat-Company Secretary. *Managing Director (upto October 30, 2018) **Director (upto October 30, 2018) ii. Enterprises controlled by the Key Management Personnel of the Company (with whom transactions have taken place during the year) Dalmia Bharat Sugar and Industries Limited, Dalmia Refractories Limited, Kanika Investments Limited, Dalmia Bharat Foundation, Shri Chamundeswari Minerals Limited, Alirox Abrasives Limited, Antordaya Commercial and Holdings Private Limited, Shree Nirman Limited and Glow Home Technologies Private Limited. Annual Report 2018-19 | 269 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise B) The following transactions were carried out with the related parties in the ordinary course of business: (Amount in H) Name of the Related Nature of Dividend Dividend Interest Interest Loan Loans Loans & Purchase ReimburseReimSale of Sale of Sale of CSR ManaDirector's Party related party Paid Received paid received taken and Advances of ment of bursement goods & Assets Investgerial Sitting advances received goods & expense of expense Services ments RemuFees and given back Services payable receivable neration commission 270 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Sugar and KMP Controlled 10 0 18 0 Industries Limited (0) (3) (8) (0) (22) Dalmia refractories KMP Controlled 24 0 0 8 limited (14) (0) (7) Kanika Investment KMP Controlled Limited (0) (3) (16) (41) Glow Home KMP Controlled Technologies (P) Limited (0) Alirox Abrasives Limited KMP Controlled 0 Antordaya Commercial KMP Controlled 0 and Holdings Private Limited Shri Chamundeswari KMP Controlled 0 Minerals Limited (0) Dalmia Bharat KMP Controlled 6 Foundation (11) Shri Nirman Limited KMP Controlled 0 (8) Shri Gautam Dalmia Key 20 0 Management Personnel (12) (0) Shri J.H.Dalmia Director 7 0 (6) (0) Shri Puneet Yadu Dalmia Key 49 0 Management Personnel (24) (0) Shri Y.H.Dalmia Director 5 0 (8) (0) Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise B) The following transactions were carried out with the related parties in the ordinary course of business: (Amount in H) Name of the Related Nature of Dividend Dividend Interest Interest Loan Loans Loans & Purchase ReimburseReimSale of Sale of Sale of CSR ManaDirector's Party related party Paid Received paid received taken and Advances of ment of bursement goods & Assets Investgerial Sitting advances received goods & expense of expense Services ments RemuFees and given back Services payable receivable neration commission Shri Jayesh Doshi Key 4 Management Personnel (4) Shri P.K. Khaitan Director 0 (0) Shri N. Gopalaswamy Director 0 (0) Shri V.S. Jain Director 0 (0) Smt. Sudha Pillai Director 1 (0) Shri D N Davar Director 0 Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Key 2 Management Personnel (1) Total 34 0 0 26 0 6 87 1 (0) (3) (0) (3) (16) (41) (22) (0) (29) (8) (11) (55) (0) All figures in ( ) represent amount for the year ended March 31, 2018 Annual Report 2018-19 | 271 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise C) Balance outstanding at year end: (Amount in H) Name of the Related Party Nature Amounts Amounts Interest Interest Loans Directors Remuneration Trade Trade of related party Receivable Payable Receivable Payable payable Commission Payable payable Payables receivable Dalmia Bharat Sugar and KMP Controlled 0 4 272 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Industries Limited (2) (0) Dalmia Refractories Limited KMP Controlled 3 6 (1) (2) (0) Glow Home Technologies (P) KMP Controlled 0 Limited Radhikapur (West) Coal Mining Joint Venture 0 Private Limited (1) (5) Dalmia Bharat Foundation KMP Controlled 0 Shree Nirman Limited KMP Controlled 0 0 Antordaya Commercial and KMP Controlled 0 Holdings Private Limited Mr. N. Gopalaswamy Director 0 (0) Mrs. Sudha Pillai Director 0 0 (0) Shri P.K. Khaitan Director 0 0 Shri V.S. Jain Director 0 0 Shri D N Davar Director 0 0 Mr. Puneet Yadu Dalmia Key Management 0 Personnel (6) Grand Total 0 0 3 10 (3) (2) (0) (1) (5) (0) (6) All figures in ( ) represent balance outstanding as at March 31, 2018 Investment with related parties are disclosed in note 6. Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 36. Related Party transactions (contd.) D) Compensation of key management personnel of the Company:- (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Short-term employee benefits 44 48 Termination benefits 2 4 Postemployment benefits 37 0 Share-based payment transactions 0 1 Total compensation paid to key management personnel* 83 53 The amounts disclosed in the table are the amounts recognised as an expense during the reporting period relating to key management personnel. * Remuneration to the key managerial personnel does not include provision made for gratuity and leave benefits as they are determined on an actuarial basis for the Group as a whole. E) Directors’ interests in the Employees stock option Scheme Share options held by certain Directors under the employees stock option scheme to purchase equity shares have the following expiry dates and exercise prices (refer note 31): (Amount in H) Grant Date Expiry Date Exercise March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Price (H) Number outstanding Number outstanding* January 29, 2015 January 29, 2021 108.62 66,000 45,000 February 03, 2016 February 03, 2022 191.77 22,500 13,500 Total 88,500 58,500 * refer note 31 F) The transactions with related parties have been made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm length transactions. G) Corporate guarantee (i) Corporate guarantee given by the DCBL(Subsidiary Company) to a bank on behalf of step down subsidiary company namely Rajputana Properties Private Limited for issuance of Performance Bank Guarantee by such bank in respect of Resolution Plan submitted for acquisition of Binani Cement Limited under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 is HNil (March 31, 2018: H652). (ii) Corporate guarantee given by the DCBL (Subsidiary Company) to a bank for issuance of bank guarantee on behalf of step down subsidiary company namely Rajputana Properties Private Limited towards grant of mining lease of H12 (March 31, 2018: HNil) 37. Fair Values See out below, is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group’s financial instruments, other than those with carrying amounts that are reasonable approximations of fair values:  (Amount in H) Particulars Carrying Value Fair Value March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Financial Assets Financial assets carried at amortised cost Loans and advances to employees 18 17 18 17 Security deposit 71 62 71 62 Incentives receivable 888 1,173 888 1,173 Deposit with banks having remaining maturity 12 18 12 18 of more than twelve months Interest receivables 47 20 47 20 Investment in commercial paper 139 139 Loan to others 33 78 33 78 Other Financial Assets 15 11 15 11 Annual Report 2018-19 | 273 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 37. Fair Values (contd.) Particulars Carrying Value Fair Value March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss Derivative Instruments 62 81 62 81 Investment in equity shares 39 41 39 41 Investment in mutual funds 516 2,177 550 2,177 Investment in traded corporate bonds 35 35 Investment in non-trade corporate bonds 565 218 565 218 Investment in alternative investment fund 22 22 Investment in tax free bonds 0 0 0 0 Investment in infrastructure fund 2 4 2 4 Financial assets carried at fair value through other comprehensive income Investment in LLP 500 486 500 486 Investment Equity shares (quoted) 500 486 500 486 Investment Equity shares (unquoted) 0 0 0 0 Financial Liabilities Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost Borrowings (including current maturity of long 5,878 7,266 5,878 7,266 term borrowings) Security deposit received 404 491 404 491 Financial liabilities carried at fair value through profit and loss Derivative Liability 3 1 3 1 The Group assessed that cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances, trade receivables, other current financial assets (except derivative financial instruments), trade payables and other current financial liabilities (except derivative financial liabilities) are considered to be the same as their fair values, due to their short term nature. The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: (a) Long-term fixed-rate and variable-rate receivables/ deposit are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates, risk factors, individual creditworthiness of the customer and the risk characteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses of these receivables. (b) The fair value of unquoted instruments, loans from banks and other financial liabilities as well as other non-current financial liabilities are estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities. (c) The fair value of investment in corporate bonds are based on quoted market price at the reporting date. Fair value of investment in mutual funds/ alternative investment fund are based on market observable inputs i.e. Net Asset Value at the reporting date. (d) The fair values of the derivative financial instruments are determined using valuation techniques, which employs the use of market observable inputs. The derivatives are entered into with the banks / counterparties with investment grade credit ratings. (e) The fair values of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings are determined by using Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) method using discount rate that reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non-performance risk as at March 31, 2018 was assessed to be insignificant. 274 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 38. Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s assets and liabilities: Quantitative disclosures fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as at March 31, 2019: (Amount in H) Particulars Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value March 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Disclosure Financial assets carried at amortised cost Loans and advances to employees 18 18 Security deposit 71 71 Incentives receivable 888 888 Deposit with banks having remaining maturity of more than 12 12 twelve months Interest receivables 47 47 Investment in commercial paper 139 139 Loan to others 33 33 Other Financial Assets 15 15 Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost Borrowings (including current maturity of long term borrowings) 5,878 5,878 Security deposit received 404 404 Measurement Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss Derivative Instruments 62 62 Investment in equity shares 39 39 Investment in mutual funds 516 516 Investment in traded corporate bonds 35 35 Investment in non-trade corporate bonds 565 565 Investment in alternative investment fund 22 22 Investment in tax free bonds 0 0 Investment in infrastructure fund 2 2 Financial liabilities carried at fair value through profit and loss Derivative Liability 3 3 There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year ended March 31, 2019. Quantitative disclosures fair value measurement hierarchy for assets as at March 31, 2018: (Amount in H) Particulars Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value March 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Disclosure Financial assets carried at amortised cost Loans and advances to employees 17 17 Security deposit 62 62 Incentives receivable 1,173 1,173 Deposit with banks having remaining maturity of more than 18 18 twelve months Interest receivables 20 20 Annual Report 2018-19 | 275 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 38. Fair value hierarchy (contd.) Particulars Carrying Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value March 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Investment in commercial paper Loan to others 78 78 Other Financial Assets 11 11 Financial liabilities carried at amortised cost Borrowings (including current maturity of long term borrowings) 7,266 7,266 Security deposit received 491 491 Measurement Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss Derivative Instruments 81 81 Investment in equity shares 41 41 Investment in mutual funds 2,177 2,177 Investment in non-trade corporate bonds 218 218 Investment in alternative investment fund Investment in tax free bonds 0 0 Investment in infrastructure fund 4 4 Financial liabilities carried at fair value through profit and loss Derivative Liability 1 1 There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the year ended March 31, 2018. 39. Financial risk management objectives and policies The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprises of borrowings, trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group’s principal financial assets, other than derivatives include trade and other receivables, investments and cash and cash equivalents that derive directly from its operations. The Group also enters into derivative transactions. The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group senior management oversees the management of these risks and also ensure that the Group financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with the Group policies and risk objectives. All derivative activities for risk management purposes are carried out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills, experience and supervision. Derivatives are used exclusively for hedging purposes and not as trading for speculative instruments. The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below: Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include investments and deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, loans and borrowings and derivative financial instruments. The Group manages market risk through a treasury department, which evaluates and exercises independent control over the entire process of market risk management. The treasury department recommends risk management objectives and policies, which are approved by Senior Management and the Audit Committee. The activities of this department include management of cash resources, implementing hedging strategies for foreign currency exposures, borrowing strategies and ensuring compliance with market risk limits and policies. The analysis exclude the impact of movements in market variables on: the carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement obligations, provisions and the non-financial assets and liabilities of foreign operations. 276 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 39. Financial risk management objectives and policies (contd.) Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. In order to optimize the Group's position with regards to interest income and interest expenses to manage the interest rate risk, treasury performs a comprehensive corporate interest rate risk management by balancing the proportion of fixed rate and floating rate financial instruments in its total portfolio. Interest rate sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the unhedged portion of loans and borrowings. With all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit before tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings, as follows: (Amount in H) Increase/ decrease Effect on profit in basis points before taxes March 31, 2019 INR + 50 BPS (14) INR 50 BPS 14 USD + 50 BPS (3) USD 50 BPS 3 EURO + 50 BPS (2) EURO 50 BPS 2 March 31, 2018 INR + 50 BPS (13) INR 50 BPS 13 USD + 50 BPS (2) USD 50 BPS 1 EURO + 50 BPS (3) EURO 50 BPS 3 Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Group’s operating and financing activities. The Group manages its foreign currency risk by hedging transactions that are expected to realise in future. When a derivative is entered into for the purpose of being a hedge, the Company negotiates the terms of those derivatives to match the terms of the hedged exposure. For hedges of forecast transactions, the derivatives cover the period of exposure from the point the cash flows of the transactions are forecasted up to the point of settlement of the resulting receivable or payable that is denominated in the foreign currency. Foreign currency sensitivity The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD and EURO exchange rates, with all other variables held constant. The impact on the Group’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities including non-designated foreign currency derivatives. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for currencies other than USD and EURO are not material. (Amount in H) Change in USD rate Effect on profit before tax Effect on pre-tax equity March 31, 2019 +5% (24) (24) March 31, 2019 -5% 24 24 March 31, 2018 +5% (34) (34) March 31, 2018 -5% 34 34 Annual Report 2018-19 | 277 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 39. Financial risk management objectives and policies (contd.) Change in Euro rate Effect on profit before tax Effect on pre-tax equity March 31, 2019 +5% (4) (4) March 31, 2019 -5% 4 4 March 31, 2018 +5% (2) (2) March 31, 2018 -5% 2 2 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counter party will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables and advances to suppliers) and from its financing activities, including deposits and other financial instruments. Trade receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Group’s established policy, procedures and control relating to customer credit risk management. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored. An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. An impairment analysis is performed at each quarter end on an individual basis for major customers. In addition, a large number of minor receivables are grouped into homogenous groups and assessed for impairment collectively. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets disclosed in note 9 (ii). The Group evaluates the concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, the trade receivables are located in several jurisdictions and operate in largely independent markets. (Amount in H) Less than 180 days past due More than 180 days past due Total As at March 31, 2019 Gross carrying amount (A) 502 105 607 Expected Credit Losses (B) 4 54 58 Net Carrying Amount (A-B) 498 51 549 As at March 31, 2018 Gross carrying amount (A) 455 167 622 Expected Credit Losses (B) 1 57 58 Net Carrying Amount (A-B) 454 110 564 Financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Group’s treasury department in accordance with the Group’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved authorities. Credit limits of all authorities are reviewed by the management on regular basis. All balances with banks and financial institutions is subject to low credit risk due to good credit ratings assigned to the Group. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for the components of the balance sheet at March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2018 is the carrying amounts of each class of financial assets. Liquidity risk The Group monitors its risk of a shortage of funds using a liquidity planning tool. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank loans, debentures and cash credit facilities. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contracted undiscounted payments (excluding transaction cost on borrowings). 278 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 39.  Financial risk management objectives and policies (contd.) (Amount in H) Less than 1 Year 1 to 5 Years More than 5 Total years As at March 31, 2019 Borrowings 1,869 2347 1741 5957 Trade payables 877 877 Other financial liabilities 727 6 733 As at March 31, 2018 Borrowings 1,818 3597 1924 7339 Trade payables 928 928 Other financial liabilities 640 7 647 40. Capital management For the purpose of the Group’s capital management, equity includes issued equity capital, securities premium and all other equity reserves attributable to the equity shareholders and net debt includes interest bearing loans and borrowings less current investments and cash and cash equivalents. The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to safeguard continuity, maintain a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and provide adequate return to shareholders through continuing growth. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in light of changes in economic conditions and the requirements of the financial covenants. The funding requirement is met through a mixture of equity, internal accruals, long term borrowings and short term borrowings. The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. In order to achieve this overall objective, the Group’s capital management, amongst other things, aims to ensure that it meets financial covenants attached to the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Long term borrowing 4,015 5,459 Short term borrowing 908 863 Current maturities of long term borrowings 955 944 Less : Current investments 2,315 3,408 Less : Cash and Cash Equivalents 280 315 Net Debt 3,284 3,543 Equity 10,639 10,335 Capital and net debt 13,923 13,878 Gearing ratio 23.58% 25.53% To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group review the fund management at regular intervals and take necessary actions to maintain the requisite capital structure. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes for managing capital during the years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018. Annual Report 2018-19 | 279 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 41. Movement of provision during the year: (Amount in H) Particulars Mines Export promotion Contingencies Total reclamation capital goods provision As at March 31, 2017 28 58 65 151 Additions during the year 3 7 5 15 Utilized during the year (37) (25) (62) Other adjustments (9) (9) As at March 31, 2018 31 28 36 95 Additions during the year 15 3 7 24 Utilized/Reversed during the year (4) (1) As at March 31, 2019 46 31 39 118 Mines reclamation provision The Group records a provision for mine reclamation cost until the closure of mine. Mine reclamation costs are provided at the present value of expected costs to settle the obligation using estimated cash flows and are recognised as cost of goods sold in statement of profit and loss. Export promotion capital goods In earlier years, the Group had imported certain plant and machinery under EPCG scheme after payment of concessional custom duty for which it had assumed export obligation to be fulfilled as per the provisions of the said scheme. As at the balance sheet date, the management has, based on its latest business plan, estimated that the Group will not be able to fulfil a portion of the export obligation within the stipulated time and consequently has made adequate provisions in books of accounts. The Group has made exports during the current year as well as in earlier years, which are considered for fulfilment of export obligation of the Group, pursuant to merger of ACL with DCBL w.e.f. January 1, 2015, as per the Foreign Trade Policy, and based on the latest business plan of the group as at the year end, the management is confident that group will be able to fulfil the entire export obligation within the stipulated time and no provision is required in the books of accounts as at the year end. Accordingly, provision made towards non-fulfilment of export obligation has been reversed during the year. The reversal of such provision has been adjusted from the accounts of (i) Deposits and balances with government departments and other authorities; (ii) interest expense – others; and (iii) balance amount is included under other income. Contingencies The Group has made provision in respect of probable contingent liabilities. The Group has assessed that the probability of paying this amount is high. This provision was created for arbitration in respect of coal and other contingencies. 42. Remuneration paid to auditors (included in Miscellaneous Expenses): Parent Company (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Statutory auditors As an auditor i) Statutory audit fee 0 0 ii) Tax Audit fee 0 0 iii) For Limited review 0 0 In other capacity i) Certification fee 0 0 Reimbursement of expenses 0 0 280 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 42. Remuneration paid to auditors (included in Miscellaneous Expenses): (contd.) Subsidiaries (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Statutory Auditors As an auditor i) Statutory audit Fee 2 2 ii) Tax Audit Fees 0 0 iii) Limited Review Fee 1 1 In other capacity i) Company law matter/ Other matters 0 0 ii) Certification Fee (including certification of financial statements arising out of 1 1 merger scheme) iii) Taxation matters 0 Reimbursement of expenses 0 0 43. During the year, the Group has incurred expenditure related to acquisition/construction of Property, plant & equipment and therefore accounted for the same as pre-operative expenses under Capital work in progress. Details of such expenses capitalised and carried forward as part of capital work in progress are given below  (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Brought forward from last year 46 5 Expenditure incurred during the year Employee benefit expenses 48 12 Rent 2 0 Insurance 0 Professional expenses 36 24 Miscellaneous expenses 15 7 Interest and financial charges* 10 12 Depreciation 7 Trial Run Expenditure Raw Material Consumed 15 Consumption of Stores & Spare Parts 20 Power and Fuel 57 Insurance Freight and forwarding Charges 26 Employee cost 29 Interest and financial charges 22 Miscellaneous expenses 36 Total expenses for the year 323 55 Less: Income Sales from trial production 90 Miscellaneous Income 2 Change in inventories 12 Net expense for the year 219 55 Grand Total 265 60 Less: Capitalised during the year 118 14 Carried forward as part of Capital Work in Progress** 147 46 * Interest comprises H10 (March 31, 2018: HNil) on general borrowings for new cement plant in Odisha along with waste heat recovery system and split Cement manufacturing units in the eastern part of India using the weighted average interest rate applicable during the year which is 8.13% p.a. ** Includes H116 (March 31, 2018 : H12) for new cement plant in Odisha along with waste heat recovery system and split Cement manufacturing units in the eastern part of India. Annual Report 2018-19 | 281 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 44. In 2011-12 the Group had initially acquired 14.59% stake in Calcom Cement India Limited (Calcom), ultimately extendable to 50% of the Equity Share Capital of Calcom by entering into definitive agreements with Calcom, Saroj Sunrise Private Limited (‘SSPL’) (a company owned by the erstwhile promoters of Calcom) and the erstwhile promoters of Calcom. During the year 201213, revised agreements were entered in to increase the Company’s nominal stake up to 66.26% (and voting stake up to 75.63%) ultimately extendable to nominal stake of 66.70% (and voting stake of 76.00%) of the Equity Share Capital of Calcom – including keeping shares representing nominal stake of 14.23% (and voting stake of 16.24%) of the Equity Share Capital of Calcom in escrow, with beneficial ownership being with the Group, to be released at a future date upon satisfaction of certain conditions. The Group has invested a total amount of H260 (March 31, 2018: H260) and H59 (March 31, 2018: H59) respectively in the Equity Shares of Calcom and Optionally Redeemable Convertible Debentures (‘OCDs’) of SSPL. The OCDs are non-interest bearing and are secured by the pledge of equity shares of Calcom held by SSPL. If certain conditions for performance by promoters of Calcom are met, these OCDs are convertible into equity shares constituting 0.01% shareholding of SSPL, else the Group has an option either to get the debentures redeemed for an aggregate amount of H59 or convert into equity shares constituting 99.99% shareholding of SSPL. Apart from the above investments, DCBL has granted loans to Calcom (including its subsidiaries) to the extent of H761 (excluding interest and trade receivable of H89) as at March 31, 2019 (March 31, 2018: H434 (excluding interest and trade receivable of H65)) to fund its ongoing projects as well as losses. Calcom Cement India Ltd. continues to provide required supports to its subsidiaries. Calcom has, on consolidated basis, earned profit of H175 during the year ended March 31, 2019 (March 31, 2018: Profit of H16). However, Calcom has accumulated losses of H296 as at March 31, 2019. Keeping in view of its nature of long term strategic investment and business projections of Calcom, no impairment has been considered in DCBL for carrying cost of investments and loans/ advances given to Calcom. DCBL, being the holding company of Calcom Cement India Ltd., continues to provide required supports to Calcom Cement India Ltd. and its subsidiaries. 45. (a) The Group, in joint venture with Sun flag Iron & Steel Co. Limited, was allocated Khappa & Extension Coal Block (KECB) by the Ministry of Coal, Government of India vide their letter dated May 29,2009 for development of coal mine and use of coal for captive mining. The Group has made an investment of H2 in shares of Khappa Coal Company Private Limited and given advance against share application money of H4. Consequent upon decision of Hon'ble Supreme Court of India for cancellation of coal block vide order dated 24th September 2014, the Group has provided for its exposure in joint venture company 'Khappa Coal Company Private Limited' amounting to H6 in earlier years. (b) In respect of license granted for captive mining block at Radhikapur mines, a Joint Venture company Radhikapur (West) Coal Mining Private Limited has been incorporated on 29th March, 2010 in which the Group's interest jointly with OCL Iron & Steel Limited (OISL) is 14.69%. The Group has invested H7 (March 31, 2018: H7) in equity shares of the JV Company which includes H4 (March 31, 2018: H4) being proportionate value of shares to be transferred to OISL after the receipt of approval from the Ministry of Coal, Government of India and other Joint Venture Partners. Consequent upon decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India cancelling the allocation of Coal block, vide Order dated 24th September, 2014, the Group is in the process of assessing the recoverability of the amounts invested of H4 in the Joint Venture Company, Radhikapur (West) Coal Mining Private Ltd. As a matter of prudence, a provision for similar amount has been made in the accounts during the earlier years. (c) The Group reviews trade receivables, advances and subsidies receivables on regular intervals and takes necessary steps (including legal action wherever required) for the recovery these balances. The Company is confident to realise the value stated good in the financial statements. The Company follows the expected credit loss model in respect of any such situations as stated in note 1(V), it believes that such amount is sufficient to cover for any possible loss. 46. The Debt Restructuring package was approved by CDR Empowered Group of Reserve bank of India in one of its step down subsidiary Calcom Cement India Limited, as a result of which its loan repayment schedule was restructured to defer the repayment. Considering these facts as well as the business of its subsidiary and the commitment of Group to provide the requisite liquidity support to its subsidiary, the management is confident that it will be able to operate as going concern and accordingly the financial statement of its subsidiary is drawn under going concern assumption. 282 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 47. Pursuant to the purchase of 15% equity shareholding of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited (DCBL) by the company and its subsidiary from KKR Cement Investments Limited (KKR), the Company could place the shares held by KKR in the Company on the terms and conditions specified in the Placement Letter Agreement (PLA) and receive certain proceeds thereof. This was approved by the Board of the company on 15th Jan, 2016 and by its shareholders in their EGM held on 11th Feb, 2016. The Board of the Company vide its meeting held on 20th Apr, 2017 approved the placement of shares. Accordingly, KKR placed its shares with third party investors on 21st Apr, 2017 in terms of the PLA. As a result of such placement, an aggregate amount of H588. has been received by the Company and its subsidiary, from KKR on 28th Apr, 2017. The purchase price of equity shareholding of DCBL in the books of Company and its subsidiary has been reduced by such amounts received from KKR. Appropriate accounting treatment for the same has been accorded in FY 2017-18 as required under the applicable accounting standards. 48. The Group has debited direct expenses relating to limestone mining, captive power generation and depot expenses etc. to cost of raw material consumed, power& fuel and other expenses as under: (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Cost of materials consumed 340 315 Power and fuel 26 75 Other Expenses: Repairs and maintenance Plant and machinery 74 87 Depot expenses 6 3 Miscellaneous expenses 5 3 Total 451 483 These expenses if reclassified on ‘nature of expense’ basis will be as follows: (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Salary, wages and bonus 33 29 Power and fuel 12 12 Other Expenses : Consumption of stores & spare parts 153 156 Repairs and maintenance Plant and machinery 62 75 Repairs and maintenance Buildings 0 1 Repairs and maintenance – Others 9 6 Rent 4 7 Advertisement and sales promotion 6 3 Rates & taxes (including royalty on limestone) 215 187 Insurance 0 0 Miscellaneous expenses 24 16 Professional charges 0 0 Other operating revenue: Sundry sales / income (67) (9) Total 451 483 49. One of the subsidiary of the Company namely Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited (DCBL) has noticed during the year that it’s certain mutual fund units (“Securities”) appearing as current investments valued at H344 crores as on December 31, 2018 (carried as current investments as on March 31, 2019 at same value) have been fraudulently and unauthorisedly transferred by Allied Financial Services Private Limited (“Allied”), the Depository Participant from the demat account(s) of DCBL. These Securities were earlier held by the erstwhile subsidiaries of DCBL namely OCL India Limited (“OCL”) and Dalmia Cement East Limited (“DCEL”) (transferred pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement and Amalgamation approved by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal, Chennai effective October 30, 2018 to DCBL). Allied has without authorisation transferred the Securities in the demat account(s) of DCBL to its own account(s), its directors and its associates and used the same for the purpose of margin with Annual Report 2018-19 | 283 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 49. (contd.) IL&FS Securities Services Limited (“ISSL”), the clearing agent of Allied for placing trade orders on Future & Options Segment of National Stock Exchange (NSE) of India Limited. Such transfers were made through Depository Instruction Slips (DIS) which contained forged signatures of the authorised persons of OCL and DCEL. DCBL has filed complaints with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) and the Economic Offences Wing, Delhi (“EOW”) on February 8, 2019 and February 15, 2019 respectively against Allied and others for cheating and forgery. EOW vide its orders dated February 28, 2019, March 18, 2019 and March 29, 2019 directed ISSL and others not to sell, purchase, transfer, alienate, redeem / deal with the Securities. Similarly, in the complaint filed by NSE, SEBI vide its ad interim ex-parte order dated 27 February 2019, observed that Allied misappropriated the securities of its clients and consequently, directed Allied and other noticees mentioned in the order, not to dispose of or alienate any assets, whether movable or immovable or to create or invoke or release any interest or charge in any of such assets except with the prior permission of SEBI / NSE. The authorities are seized of the matter. The Board of Directors of DCBL desired that an Independent firm of Accountants be appointed to carry out investigation in this matter. DCBL is fully confident of recovering its Securities based on the legal opinion obtained in the matter to the effect that there is a strong chance of getting its Securities returned, hence no provision is required to be made in it’s books of accounts. The management of the DCBL has since taken the necessary remedial measures to strengthen the controls. 50. The Government of Assam in their high power committee meeting in February 2019 has granted Mega Project status to one of the step down Subsidiary company namely Calcom Cement India Limited (CCIL) under the Industrial and Investment policy of Assam 2014 for the investment done for establishment of clinkerisation unit at Umrangshu (”USO”) of CCIL for 15 years in the state of Assam. The said unit will be entitled to 100% reimbursement of net SGST paid for a period of 15 years from the date of commercial production. Accordingly 100% remission of SGST for the period from July 01, 2017 to March 31, 2019 of H51 crores has been recognized as income on reasonable assurance during the current year. 51. During the current year profitability of one of the step down Subsidiary company namely Calcom Cement India Limited (CCIL) has improved on account of better utilization of installed capacity, increase in demand of cement and also recognition of remission of State Goods and Services Tax ( SGST ). The management based on the future profitability projections and also profits earned during the current year is confident that there would be sufficient profit in future to utilize the unabsorbed amount of depreciation and business losses etc. Accordingly, CCIL has recognised deferred tax assets of H51 crores during the current year. 52. The Group comprises of the following entities: The subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures considered in the consolidated financial statements are: Name of the Company Country of Percentage of Percentage of incorporation Ownership Ownership held as at held as at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Subsidiaries Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited India 100% 100% Dalmia Power Limited India 100% 100% Subsidiaries of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited Bangaru Kamakshi Amman Agro Farms Private Limited India 100% 100% Calcom Cement India Limited India 76% 76% D.I. Properties Limited India 100% 100% Dalmia Minerals & Properties Limited India 100% 100% Geetee Estates Limited India 100% 100% Golden Hills Resorts Private Limited India 100% 100% Hemshila Properties Limited India 100% 100% Ishita Properties Limited India 100% 100% Rajputana Properties Private Limited India 100% 100% Jayevijay Agro Farms Private Limited India 100% 100% Shri Rangam Properties Limited India 100% 100% 284 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 52. The Group comprises of the following entities: (contd.) Name of the Company Country of Percentage of Percentage of incorporation Ownership Ownership held as at held as at March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Sri Dhandauthapani Mines & Minerals Limited India 100% 100% Sri Madhusudana Mines & Properties Limited India 100% 100% Sri Shanmugha Mines & Minerals Limited India 100% 100% Sri Swaminatha Mines & Minerals Limited India 100% 100% Sri Subramanya Mines & Minerals Limited India 100% 100% Sri Trivikrama Mines & Properties Limited India 100% 100% Alsthom Industries Limited India 99.99% 99.99% Chandrasekara Agro Farms Private Limited India 100% 100% OCL Global Limited Mauritius 100% 100% Dalmia DSP Limited (w.e.f. July 10, 2018) India 100% Hopco Industries Limited (w.e.f. December 21, 2018) India 100% Step Down subsidiaries of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited Cosmos Cements Limited (subsidiary of Dalmia Minerals & Properties India 100% 100% Limited) OCL China Limited [(subsidiary of OCL Global Limited] China 90% 90% RCL Cements Limited (subsidiary of Vinay Cements Limited) India 100% 100% SCL Cements Limited (subsidiary of Vinay Cements Limited) India 100% 100% Sutnga Mines Private Limited (subsidiary of Dalmia Minerals & India 100% 100% Properties Limited) Vinay Cements Limited (subsidiary of Calcom Cement India Limited) India 97.21% 97.21% Associate Dalmia Renewable Energy Limited India 49% Joint Venture Khappa Coal Company Private Limited (JV of Dalmia Cement (Bharat) India 36.73% 36.73% Limited) Radhikapur (West) Coal Mining Private Limited (JV of erstwhile OCL India 14.70% 14.70% India Limited now Unit of DCBL) 53 Segment information Operating segment The Chief operational decision maker (CODM) monitors the operating results of its business segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and is measured consistently with profit or loss in the financial statements. Operating segments have been identified on the nature of products and services and have been identified as per the quantitative criteria specified in the Ind AS. However, the Company’s finance costs and income taxes are managed on a Company basis and are not allocated to operating segments. Operating segments identified as follows: (a) Cement division which produces various grades of cement and its related products; (b) Others include Refractory division, Investment division and Management Services. No other operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments. Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under each reportable segment. Expenses which are not directly identifiable to each reporting segment have been allocated on the basis of associated revenue of the segment and manpower efforts. All other expenses which are not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocable expenses. Annual Report 2018-19 | 285 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 53 Segment information (contd.) Assets and liabilities that are directly attributable or allocable to segments are disclosed under each reportable segment. All other assets and liabilities are disclosed as unallocable. (Amount in H) Particulars Cement Others Total Segment 2018-19 2017-18 2018-19 2017-18 2018-19 2017-18 Revenue External revenue 8,958 8,354 526 473 9,484 8,827 (including other operating revenue) Inter segment revenue 8,958 8,354 526 473 9,484 8,827 Less: Elimination Total revenue 8,958 8,354 526 473 9,484 8,827 Income/ (expense) Depreciation and amortisation 1,285 1,200 10 13 1,296 1,213 Segment profit/ (loss) 671 836 26 (13) 697 823 Total assets 18,329 17,109 867 421 19,196 17,530 Total liabilities 2,216 1,847 441 372 2,657 2,219 Other disclosures Capital expenditure 1,049 336 18 17 1,049 353 Reconciliations to amounts reflected in the financial statements Reconciliation of profit (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Segment profit 697 823 Reconciliation items:Other unallocable income 193 274 Finance costs (551) (708) Profit before tax 339 389 Reconciliation of assets (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Segment operating assets 19,196 17,530 Non-current investments 1,110 3,505 Income tax assets (net) 91 122 Loansothers 33 78 Foreign currency forward / option / Interest rate swap contracts 62 81 Interest receivable others 47 20 Other un-allocable assets (3) Total assets 20,538 21,334 Reconciliation of liabilities (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Segment operating liabilities 2,657 2,219 Long-term borrowings 4,015 5,459 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 1,279 1,420 Short-term borrowings 908 863 Current maturities of long term borrowings 955 944 Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 43 51 Other unallocable liabilities 42 43 Total liabilities 9,899 10,999 286 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 53 Segment information (contd.) Information about geographical areas Sale outside India is below the reportable threshold limit, thus geographical segment information is not given. Information about major customers There are no revenues from transactions with a single external customer amounting to 10 per cent or more of an entity’s revenues during the current and previous year. 54. Details relating to Net Assets and Profit or Loss in respect of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures: Name of entity Net Assets Share in profit / loss Share in Other Share in Total Comprehensive Income (OCI) Comprehensive Income (TCI) Subsidiaries Amount As % of Amount As % of Other CompreAs % of Total ComAs % of total (H In. Cr) consolidated (H In. Cr) consolidated hensive consolidated prehensive Comprehennet assets profit / loss OCI Income sive A. Parent Dalmia Bharat Limited 7,580 71% 101 33% (11) -41% 90 27% B. Subsidiaries Indian Subsidiaries Alsthom Industries Limited 31 0% 19 6% (0) 0% 19 6% Calcom Cement India Limited 396 4% 213 69% (0) -1% 213 63% Dalmia Cement (Bharat) 9,165 86% 80 26% (10) -35% 70 21% Limited Dalmia DSP Limited 12 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Dalmia Power Limited 183 2% -14 -5% 46 170% 32 10% RCL Cements Limited 9 0% -4 -1% 0 0% (4) -1% SCL Cements Limited (42) 0% -9 -3% (0) 0% (9) -3% Vinay Cements Limited (138) -1% -25 -8% 0 0% (25) -7% Bangaru Kamakshi Amman 4 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Agro Frams Private Limited Chandrasekara Agro Farms 2 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Private Limited Cosmos Cements Limited 12 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% D.I. Properties Limited 2 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Dalmia Minerals & Properties 52 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Limited Geetee Estates Limited 8 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Golden Hills Resorts Private 1 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Limited Hemshila Properties Limited 7 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Hopco Industries Limited 0% 0 0% 0% 0% Ishita Properties Limited (2) 0% 0 0% 0% 0 0% Jayevijay Agro Farms Private 4 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Limited Rajputana Properties Private (0) 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Limited Shri Radha Krishna Brokers & 0% 0 0% 0% 0 0% Holdings Limited Shri Rangam Properties 11 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Limited Sri Dhandauthapani Mines & 0 0% 0 0% 0% 0 0% Minerals Limited Sri Madhusudana Mines & 7 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Properties Limited Sri Shanmugha Mines & 9 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Minerals Limited Sri Subramanya Mines & 6 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Minerals Limited Sri Swaminatha Mines & 4 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Minerals Limited Annual Report 2018-19 | 287 Dalmia Bharat Limited (Formerly known as Odisha Cement Limited) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements All amounts stated in H are in H Crores except wherever stated otherwise 54. Details relating to Net Assets and Profit or Loss in respect of Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint Ventures: (contd.) Name of entity Net Assets Share in profit / loss Share in Other Share in Total Comprehensive Income (OCI) Comprehensive Income (TCI) Subsidiaries Amount As % of Amount As % of Other CompreAs % of Total ComAs % of total (H In. Cr) consolidated (H In. Cr) consolidated hensive consolidated prehensive Comprehennet assets profit / loss OCI Income sive Sri Trivikrama Mines & 7 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Properties Limited Sutnga Mines Private Limited 2 0% 0 0% 0% (0) 0% Foreign Subsidiaries OCL Global Limited 81 1% 0 0% 1 4% 1 0% OCL China Limited 46 0% -5 -2% 1 4% (4) -1% C. Joint Ventures (As per equity method) Indian Joint Ventures Khappa Coal Company Private 0% 0% 0% 0% Limited Radhikapur (West) Coal Mining 0% 0 0% 0% 0 0% Private Limited Less: Elimination / Adjustments (6,819) -64% (46) -15% 0% (46) -14% Total 10,639 100% 308 100% 27 100% 335 100% 55. Research and development (R&D) expenses The details of revenue/capital expenditure incurred by R&D centre during the year are as follows:- (Amount in H) Particulars March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Revenue expenditure charged to statement of profit and loss Salary and other benefits 4 3 Raw materials & stores 1 1 Others 2 2 Total 7 6 Capital expenditure shown under fixed assets schedule Grand Total 7 6 56. Previous year figures have been recasted/restated wherever necessary to conform to the current year’s presentation. As per our report of even date For S.S. Kothari Mehta & Company For and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Dalmia Bharat Limited Firm Registration No. 000756N Chartered Accountants Sunil Wahal Gautam Dalmia Puneet Yadu Dalmia Partner Managing Director Managing Director Membership No.: 087294 DIN: 00009758 DIN: 00022633 Jayesh Doshi Dr. Sanjeev Gemawat Place: New Delhi Whole time Director & CFO Company Secretary Date: May 9, 2019 DIN: 00017963 Membership No. F 3669 288 | Dalmia Bharat Limited GRI Mapping GRI Standards: Core option GRI GRI Title Reference Section Page No. Standard No. Organisational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization About this Integrated Report 10 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Dalmia Bharat 26 102-3 Location of headquarters How our operations have grown over the years 24 102-4 Location of operations How our operations have grown over the years 24 102-5 Ownership and legal form Company Profile 41 102-6 Markets served How our operations have grown over the years 24 102-7 Scale of the organization Dalmia Bharat’s history 22 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Human Capital 66 102-9 Supply chain Strengthening the supply chain 29 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain Strengthening the supply chain 29 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Natural Capital 53 102-12 External initiatives Knowledge partnerships and associations 34 102-13 Membership of associations Knowledge partnerships and associations 34 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker From the MD’s desk 13 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Our values 21 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Report 118 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder engagement process 30 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Human Capital 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder engagement process 30 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement process 30 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder engagement process 30 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Director’s Report 208-209 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About this Integrated Report 10 102-47 List of material topics Materiality 32 102-48 Restatements of information About this Integrated Report 10 102-49 Changes in reporting About this Integrated Report 10 102-50 Reporting period About this Integrated Report 10 102-51 Date of most recent report About this Integrated Report 10 102-52 Reporting cycle About this Integrated Report 10 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report About this Integrated Report 10 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About this Integrated Report 10 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance About the Report / Assurance Statement GRI 103 Management Approach GRI 200 Financial Topics 103 Management Approach Financial Capital 45 GRI 201 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial Capital 47 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Human Capital 63 GRI 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Social and Relationship Capital 87 GRI 205 Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Financial Capital 48 GRI 300 Environmental Topics 103 Management Approach Natural Capital 52 GRI 301 Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Natural Capital 55 301-2 Recycled input materials used Natural Capital 55 GRI 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Natural Capital 56 302-3 Energy intensity Natural Capital 56 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Natural Capital 56 Annual Report 2018-19 | 289 GRI Mapping GRI Standards: Core option GRI GRI Title Reference Section Page No. Standard No. GRI 303 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Natural Capital 57 303-3 Water recycled and reused Natural Capital 57 GRI 304 Biodiversity 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, Natural Capital 59 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas GRI 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Natural Capital 58 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Natural Capital 58 305-4 GHG emissions intensity GCCA table 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions GCCA table 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur oxides (SOX), and other GCCA table significant air emissions GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Natural Capital 57 GRI 307 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Financial Capital 48 GRI 400 Social Topics 103 Management Approach Human Capital 61 Social and Relationship Capital 87 GRI 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Human Capital 66 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Human Capital 63 provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave Human Capital 63 GRI 402 Labour/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Human Capital 63 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Human Capital 62 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities GRI 404 Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Human Capital 65 GRI 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Human Capital 66 GRI 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Human Capital 66 GRI 407 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of Human Capital 66 association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408 Child Labour 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Financial Capital 48 child labour GRI 409 Forced or Compulsory Labour 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Financial Capital 48 forced or compulsory labour GRI 417 Marketing and Labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and Financial Capital 48 labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service Financial Capital 48 information and labelling GRI 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and Financial Capital 48 economic area Performance under EP-100 Unit FY’18 FY’19 Energy Productivity H million / TJ 2.27 2.12 290 | Dalmia Bharat Limited GRI Mapping UNGC Mapping UNGC Description Reference Section Page No. Principle Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Capital >> Respecting human rights 64 internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Business should make sure they are not complicit in human Financial Capital >> Legal & Secretarial 48 rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Human Capital >> Engaging with talents 66 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of Financial Capital >> Legal & Secretarial 48 forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child Financial Capital >> Legal & Secretarial 48 labour. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination Human Capital >> Diversity and inclusion 66 in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Natural Capital >> The management’s 53 environmental challenges. approach Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Natural Capital >> The management’s 53 environmental responsibility. approach Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and Natural Capital >> The management’s 53 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. approach Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Corporate Governance Report >> Code of 123 including extortion and bribery. Conduct for the Directors and Senior Assumptions for arriving at water conservation and harvesting potential: 1. The volume of the mining pits utilized for rain water harvesting are assumed to be static. 2. The amount of water harvested through mining pits is equal to the volume of the mining pits up to average water level. 3. The water credit generated from the CSR water projects implemented for the local communities and the rainwater harvesting structures within the plant premise is equivalent to twice the volume of the structure. (i.e., the water structures are filled twice in a year due to rainfall). 4. The water consumed at manufacturing locations from the mining pits and harvesting structures within the plant premise is considered as water debit. GCCA Indicators Basic Parameters Unit FY’18 FY’19 Clinker production million tons/year 10.5 11.8 Cement production million tons/year 16.3 18.5 Cementitious production million tons/year 16.6 18.4 CO2 emissions Total direct CO2 emissions – gross million tCO2/year 8.96 10.16 Total direct CO2 emissions – net million tCO2/year 8.89 10.07 Specific CO2 emissions – gross kg/t of cementitious material 542 551 Specific CO2 emissions – net kg/t of cementitious material 537 546 Emissions Overall coverage rate % 100% 100% Coverage rate continuous measurement % 100% 100% PM Emission Absolute* Tons/year 382 406 PM Emission Specific* g/tonne clinker 44.1 41.6 NOx Emission Absolute* Tons/year 9,195 10,594 NOx Emission Specific* g/tonne clinker 1,062 1,087 SOx Emission Absolute* Tons/year 362 365 SOx Emission Specific* g/tonne clinker 41.8 37.5 Annual Report 2018-19 | 291 GCCA Indicators Basic Parameters Unit FY’18 FY’19 Fuels and Raw Material Kiln fuels million tons/year 1.82 1.82 Total Energy from fuels used in clinker production TJ/year 33,255 38,233 Alternative fuels tons/year 44,619 67,125 Energy from alternative fuels TJ/year 853 1,125 Alternative fuel rate (kiln fuels) % 2.6 2.9 Biomass fuels tons/year 5,418 11,874 Energy from biomass fuels TJ/year 184 323 Biomass fuel rate (kiln fuels) % 0.60 0.8 Total raw materials for cement produced million tons/year 22.0 24.5 Total alternative raw material for cement produced million tons/year 6.2 6.8 Alternative Raw Materials rate (% ARM) % 28% 28% Specific heat consumption for clinker production MJ/tonne 3,156 3,237 Clinker/cement (equivalent) factor % 63 64.1 Safety Number of fatalities, directly employed Number Zero Zero Number of fatalities, contractors and sub-contractors Number 1 2 Number of fatalities, third parties Number Zero Zero Number of lost time injuries (LTI), directly employed Number Zero Zero Number of lost time injuries (LTI), contractors and subNumber 6 8 contractors LTIFR, directly employed Number Zero Zero LTIFR, contractors and sub-contractors Number 0.30 0.38 LTI severity rate, directly employed Number Zero Zero Water Total Water withdrawal million m3/year 2.51 2.85 Water discharge million m /year 3 Zero Zero Water Consumption (Total Water withdrawal-– Water million m3/year 2.51 2.85 Discharge) Amount of Water Consumption per unit of product Litres/tonne of cementitious material 151.6 154.8 Number of sites Number 13 13 Number of sites with a water recycling system Number 9 9 *Excluding data for Umrangshu and Meghalaya site 292 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Ernst & Young Associates LLP Tel: +91 124 443 4000 Golf View Corporate Tower -B ey.com Sector 42, Sector Road Gurugram -122002 Haryana, India The Management and Board of Directors Dalmia Bharat Ltd., 11th & 12th Floor, Hansalaya Building 15, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi 110001 Independent Assurance Statement Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY) was engaged by Dalmia Bharat Limited (the 'Company') to provide independent assurance on the salient features of its non-financial performance during the period 1st April 2017 to 31st March 2019, as presented in the Annual Report 2018-19 (the ‘Report’). The development of the Report based on the <IR> Integrated Reporting Framework by International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), its content and presentation is the sole responsibility of the management of the Company. EY’s responsibility, as agreed with the management of the Company, is to provide independent assurance on the report content as described in the scope of assurance below. Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the management of the Company only and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the Company. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organization. Any dependence that any such third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. The assurance statement should not be taken as a basis for interpreting the Company’s overall performance, except for the aspects mentioned in the scope below. Assurance criteria Our assurance is in accordance with International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000), and our conclusions are for ‘limited’ assurance as set out in ISAE 3000. Scope of assurance The scope of our work for this assurance engagement was limited to review of non-financial information pertaining to the <IR> capitals for the cement and power business for the period 1st April 2017 to 31st March 2019, as presented in the Report. We conducted review and verification of data collection and general review of the logic of inclusion/ omission of necessary relevant information/ data and this was limited to: • Review of the Report for detecting, on a test basis, any major anomalies between the data/information reported in the Report and the relevant source; • Review the level of adherence to IIRC framework, the reporting framework followed by the Client in preparing the Report; • Review alignment of the Report with other reporting frameworks such as GRI Standards, UN Global Compact, Business Responsibility Report and Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA); • Review of the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions (scope-I, scope-II and scope-III) presented in the Report with respect to GHG protocol by World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), for any major anomaly between the reported data and relevant source data/information; • Physical verification of sample data for the following two manufacturing locations (representing around 26% of the total installed capacity): o Ariyalur (Tamil Nadu) o Dalmiapuram (Tamil Nadu) • Verification of sample data for the remaining manufacturing sites through consultations and desktop review at the Company’s Head Office in Delhi; • Review of claims and data streams, on a selective test basis, to determine the level of accuracy of statements in the Report, and of reported data; • Execution of an audit trail of claims and data streams, on a selective test basis, to determine the level of accuracy in collection, transcription and aggregation; Annual Report 2018-19 | 293 Ernst & Young Associates LLP Tel: +91 124 443 4000 Golf View Corporate Tower -B ey.com Sector 42, Sector Road Gurugram -122002 Haryana, India Limitations of our review The assurance scope excludes: • Data and information outside the defined reporting period (1st April 2017 to 31st March 2019); • The plants outside the reporting boundary for the respective years FY 2017-18 and FY 2018-19; • Review of the ‘economic performance indicators’ included in the Report which, we have been informed by the Company, are derived from the Company’s audited financial records; • The Company's statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, inference, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention; • Data, statements and claims already available in the public domain through Annual Report, Corporate Social Responsibility Reports, or other sources available in the public domain; • Review of the Company’s compliance with regulations, acts, guidelines with respect to various regulatory agencies and other legal matters. Our assurance team and independence Our assurance team, comprising of multidisciplinary professionals, was drawn from our Climate Change and Sustainability network, and undertakes similar engagements with various companies. As an assurance provider, EY is required to comply with the independence requirements set out in International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. EY’s independence policies and procedures ensure compliance with the Code. Observations and opportunities for improvement During our review process, we observed that: • The Company has compiled the Report on the basis of IIRC framework and is aligned to the other reporting frameworks such as GRI Standards, UN Global Compact, Business Responsibility Report and Global Cement and Concrete Association (GCCA). • The Company has demonstrated its commitment on non-financial performance by releasing its Annual Report based on <IR> guidelines. Going forward, the Company may further strengthen the procedures and internal review mechanism for various non-financial disclosures, such as, scope-III emissions; • The Company has demonstrated its commitment towards effective planning and implementation of water management initiatives. The quantity of water consumed by the Company during FY 2018-19 is 2.85 million cubic meters. The Company has created a cumulative water recharge potential of 14.2 million cubic meters (approximately five times of its water consumption) as on 31st March 2019 through water conservation and harvesting initiatives. Conclusion On the basis of our procedures for this limited assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that the information has been presented fairly, in material respects, in keeping with the Integrated Reporting framework and the Company’s reporting principles and criteria. Ernst & Young Associates LLP Chaitanya Kalia Partner Dated: 30 July 2019 Place: Mumbai, India International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (2013) establishes ethical requirements for professional accountants. 294 | Dalmia Bharat Limited Notes Notes A PRODUCT info@trisyscom.com 11th & 12th floor, Hansalaya Building, 15, Barakhamba Road, New Delhi 110001 Phone: 011-23310121/23/24/25 | Fax: 011-23313303 Email: investorrelations@dalmiabharat.com, corpcom@dalmiabharat.com www.dalmiabharat.com
