The unique story of Siloso Beach Resort in its journey towards corporate sustainability Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2019 This report follows the latest ISO 26000 guidelines on Social responsibility as well as the GRI Standards. Acknowledgment & Contacts: Report Committee 2019: Kelvin Ng, Managing Director Sources of Report Data: Yearly report data was Karl Fischer, CSR Manager sourced and compiled by csr@silosobeachresort.com various departments, All SBR Sustainability Committee Members including human CSR Intern: Pearleen resources, reservations, CSR, and finance. Staying for Good www.silosobeachresort.com 2 Our sustainability practices have been recognized at the highest level SBR Sustainability Report 2019 3 Our sustainability practices have been recognized at the highest level SBR Sustainability Report 2019 4 Siloso Beach Resort Sustainability Report 2019 Main Reporting Content Global Compact Support and This report is about Managing Director Statement 6-8 the unique story of Introduction and SBR Story 9-16 SBR which includes a General Disclosures 17-89 sustainability report according to the GRI Management Approach 92-94 Standards guidelines, Economic 95-97 and also a range of Environmental 98 – 146 case studies on best sustainability Social 147 157 practices. Annex / GRI Content Index 160-166 SBR’s Villa Wing Staying for Good www.silosobeachresort.com 5 SBR’s United Nations Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Global Compact Commitment Global Compact 10 Principles UN Global Compact As of 1st February 2012, SBR is proud to be a member of Categories Global compact 10 principles the United Nations Global Compact. Human rights • Principle 1: Businesses should About the United Nations Global Compact support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human The United Nations Global Compact is a call to companies rights; and everywhere to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the • Principle 2: make sure that they are areas of human rights, labour, environment and antinot complicit in human rights corruption, and to take actions in support of UN goals, abuses including the Millennium Development Goals. Endorsed by chief executives, the UN Global Compact is a leadership platform for the development, implementation, and Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should disclosure of responsible corporate policies and practices. uphold the freedom of association Launched in 2000, it is the largest corporate responsibility and the effective recognition of the initiative in the world – with over 8,000 signatories based in right to collective bargaining; more than 135 countries. • Principle 4: the elimination of all For more information: www.unglobalcompact.org. forms of forced and compulsory labour; The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of • Principle 5: the effective abolition of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, child labour; and the environment and anti-corruption. • Principle 6: the elimination of Engaging in the Global Compact and implementing the discrimination in respect of principles will help SBR to: employment and occupation. •improve organizational integration of environmental, social Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should and governance issues. address the company’s expanded business opportunities and risks; support a precautionary approach •improve operational efficiencies; to environmental challenges; •access the experiences and good practices of peers; •acquire practical know-how; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to •attract, motivate and retain employees; promote greater environmental •increase trust in the company and renew its license to responsibility; operate; •improve corporate reputation and brand image; • Principle 9: encourage the •engage in a proactive and constructive dialogue with civil development and diffusion of society and other stakeholders; environmentally friendly •strengthen stakeholder relations, both globally and locally; technologies •establish better links with the United Nations; •take a leadership role on critical issues & network with other organizations;. Anti• Principle 10: Businesses should •respond to financial market expectations and improve corruption work against corruption in all its access to capital. forms, including extortion and bribery SBR fully supports and follows the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact SBR Sustainability Report 2019 6 Siloso Beach Resort Managing Director General Disclosures Staying for Good Statement 2019 The years 2018-2019 have been successful and challenging ones for Siloso Beach Resort. While facing an increasingly competitive local hotel landscape as well as industry manpower challenges, we have still managed to make progress in our journey towards sustainability. Some existing initiatives have been reinforced, such as our strong as ever Eco Tour (over 21,000 attendees reached, exceeding our most optimistic targets) and new ones developed, such our collaboration with ITE College East to assist in developing their own vermicomposting program. On 28 Nov, SBR also hosted the ITE-SBR Youth Eco Ambassador Awards, which recognized students who have demonstrated environmental leadership at the school, and included presentations by the Lee Kong Chian Natural History Museum on their recent biodiversity research activities. I am very proud to mention our latest recognition, the Enabling Employers Award 2019, Leader Award (which is the highest tier). Organized by SG Enable, the Enabling Employers Awards recognize the collective effort of organisations and individuals who have demonstrated commitment towards hiring and integrating people with disabilities in the workforce. The “Leader Award” is given to the resort in recognition of our efforts to provide opportunities and create an inclusive work environment for our staff with disabilities. Another important milestone for the resort was the launch of our new website in mid-2019, which features improved and mobile-friendly design, new sustainability-related content, and a streamlined direct booking system. The new website allows us to better manage our bookings, promotions, and content – which all lead to an improved online visitor experience. Looking ahead to the next few years, SBR is making plans to redevelop part of the resort, which will bring about new opportunities to expand – both in terms of our business and CSR efforts. The planned new rooms will include specifications according to our experience in working with PWDs, so that certain challenging housekeeping and maintenance tasks will be eliminated and overall efficiency improved. This will allow us to employ even more PWDs in our workforce and ensure better integration. It is clear that SBR fully adheres to the commitments, initiatives and principles of the UN Global Compact and that we will unconditionally continue to do so in the years ahead. SBR has taken a number of practical actions to implement the Global Compact principles: Human rights: We have always been following the UN Global Compact’s ten principles including on human rights. SBR has never had any infringement of these principles and we intend to keep it this way. Going beyond just adhering to these principles we actually have put into place a range of practices that help to raise awareness on stronger human right policies especially with regards to social employment and supporting a range of social community events. SBR Sustainability Report 2019 7 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Managing Director Staying for Good Statement 2018 (continued) Labour: We have reinforced and implemented a number of measures which make us a more responsible employer. One of our best successes in this area has been our ability to retain our employees with disabilities, many of whom have started with us a few years back and are still part of our team. In 2018 our employment of PWD remains at more than 20% of our workforce. Some of our other initiatives include work-life balance programs for the staff, improvement of facilities and systems for safety, staff usage and comfort. In 2016 we have had all of our Manager/HOD staff trained in Risk Management Framework Implementation, and continue to maintain good risk management practices to ensure the safety of our staff and guests. Environment: As always our commitment to environmental causes remains strong. While we have continued with existing strong measures and programs, we also have developed new initiatives. In order to better identify opportunities for improving energy efficiency, and have recently completed a comprehensive energy efficiency audit of our advanced heat-recovery chiller system. We have also committed to eliminating use of unsustainable palm oil, and have already made the significant step of switching our cooking oil to sustainable palm oil. As a hotel with a strong sustainability focus, it is important to align our brand with initiatives that resonate with guests seeking greener stay alternatives. Anti-corruption: SBR has never had any case of corruption. We have put in place all the proper measures to avoid such including regular third party external audits and transparency in financial information through reporting initiatives. We are proud to see a continuous improvement from our last report which showcases that our initiatives are not short-term efforts but have been constantly developing and growing. I look forward to reporting on our progress next year and our continuous support to the UN Global Compact. Sincerely, Mr Kelvin Ng Managing Director, Siloso Beach Resort SBR Sustainability Report 2019 8 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Welcome Siloso Beach Resort is an Ecological Resort on the island of Sentosa in Singapore Siloso BeachSBR Sustainability Resort Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 9 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good SBR’s Central Court & pool by night Vision: The Resort aims to set the environmental • Each one of us needs to change our critical benchmark to allow our guests and the community behaviors and be environmentally conscious on a to experience a quality eco-friendly environment daily basis; that encourages them to adopt environmentally friendly initiatives • Community and customers are essential to our long term success and we need their involvement and Mission: The Resort will continuously strive to support to build a successful and sustainable reduce its ecological impact by adopting best environment program; practices and applying appropriate new technologies • We need a complete and holistic approach in tackling environmental challenges; Values: At the resort we believe that: • Our plans, strategies, people and processes must • Our commitment to the environment begins with be built on the foundations of continuous our employees, stakeholders, customers and improvement. community. It requires both enormous dedication and real ingenuity and is a long term process; • Providing quality services and accommodation to our customers SBR Sustainability Report 2019 10 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good SBR environmental statement: “SBR is committed to provide a memorable leisure experience while adopting and showcasing environmental and sustainability best practices. Our model is to first protect nature, then to reduce, reuse and recycle” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 11 11 The story of Siloso Beach Siloso Beach Resort Resort Staying for Good The SBR Story This Sustainability Report, the eighth of the It is precisely this potential to make a real change by series, is set to mark a new era at Siloso Beach influencing the numerous guests who transit SBR is a very unique hotel Resort (SBR). through the facilities that has pushed SBR in this direction. in many ways and this report intends to The hotel industry is one that has the most potential to highlight the reasons why. influence many people, yet it is also one of the sectors that has made little progress in this field. Following the implementation of numerous sustainable initiatives, best practices and policies, it One single business adopting and showcasing sustainable became apparent that the next step for SBR to practices can influence many others to adopt a similar embark on would be to produce a sustainability development path: report that would provide a highlight of the journey into a single document. Single business SBR is proud to be one of the few hotels which was purposely built, from its conception, to be an Eco Hotel and to apply best sustainable practices throughout all its operations. Influence The commitment of SBR to be a reference in the Other businesses sustainability field is strongly present in daily operations. This report tells the Story behind the mindset that has led to what SBR is today, the different stages of development and the unprecedented commitment of its management to set the benchmark of a new Significant changes era of sustainable business models in the leisure industry and to continually pursue in this direction. Realisation of a rapidly changing world One of the main drivers behind SBR adopting a sustainable business model is the realisation and acceptance by its management that we live in a fast changing world in which environmental issues are high on the agenda and in which businesses have an important role to play in helping limit its impacts on the environment. Global concerns such as climate Constructing an eco-resort from the very start change, pollution, biodiversity losses, fresh water depletion and more, are of great concern to current SBR’s view is that in this type of business (built and future generations and something needs to be environment/hospitality) integrating sustainable practices done. from the very beginning (and in particular the construction phase) is key as there is only so much that can be achieved SBR believes that it can play its part by reducing in reducing environmental impacts post-construction. If a environmental impacts on its premises through the developer is in a position to implement sustainable adoption of sustainable practices at all levels of thoughts from the very beginning, then it should be done at operations but also by sharing its opinions and this stage. initiatives with society through its CSR programs. It is apparent that while one single organisation can only make small and often insignificant differences on a national or even global scale through its daily operations, it can have very significant impacts on a larger scale by influencing various stakeholders and society at large. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 12 12 At Siloso Beach Resort (SBR) the concept of Siloso Beach Resort sustainability is not new, in fact even before the Staying for Good The SBR Story hotel was built more than ten years ago, it was decided that SBR would adopt a sustainable business model. Three key decisions were made Economically viable: with average high hotel which were considered highly unusual at the time: occupancy, SBR is not only an environmentally conscious hotel but an economically viable business as well that will continue to use its facilities as a showcase Our 3 guiding principles: of sustainable practices and a test-bed of environmentally friendly technologies. 1) The natural terrain would be preserved; Siloso Beach Resort, Sentosa, is a recognised eco2) The trees would be preserved; hotel, with awards such as the President’s Award for the Environment, Watermark Honorary Award, and 3) The resort would have minimum ASEAN Business Award (CSR Category). covered area. Our philosophy Since then the concept of sustainability has been “Making money? Our life, besides well established and remains a core component of the business model with strong initiatives at all making money, is also about levels of operations: happiness, enjoyment, health, and continuity. This is our company philosophy.. ..How can businesses continue into the future if they cannot anticipate the world environmental problems? It is for the simple fact that consumer awareness will lead to less profitability in the long run for those who do not Unique Environmental attributes: with features practice sustainability.” such as truly innovative environmentally friendly construction techniques; the longest self-sustained rooftop garden in Singapore; the only 100% spring Mr Ng Swee Hwa water landscape swimming pool in Singapore; and Chairman/Owner of Siloso Beach Resort numerous other unique environmental practices and initiatives in a hotel environment. Socially responsible: with features such as SBR Eco Tours; regular sponsorship of sustainability events; and its latest CSR program: The Biodiversity.sg website, SBR continuously gives back to society and actively promotes the concept of sustainability. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 13 13 Siloso Beach Resort Introduction Staying for Good Our journey towards sustainability Going beyond preserving the vegetal coverage and its inhabiting biodiversity, the buildings were constructed in a way that: At Siloso Beach Resort (SBR), we like to see ourselves as a very special hotel when it comes to sustainability and •Maximise natural lighting through an open concept; environmental values and I would like to highlight what I mean by this: •Maximize natural cooling through efficient design as well as the implementation of unique features such as what Our vision of a sustainable business remains (to the best of our knowledge) the longest selfmaintained roof top garden in Singapore; Even before SBR was conceived more than 10 years ago, it was decided that it would become an eco-hotel. This hotel •Making use of a very significant amount of re-used would not only adopt unique sustainable features in its materials in the built structure; design, but also act as a showcase of best sustainable practices to all our stakeholders. •Making use of the natural shape of the terrain (for example, our landscape swimming pool has been placed on Coming from a construction background, I have noticed top of an existing maintenance road). first hand over the years the level of very significant impacts that this sector has on our environment. It was •Rainwater harvesting and purification passive features; our vision that perhaps the construction of a hotel, which showcases how things can be done differently while still At SBR, we believe that real sustainability can only come remaining a viable business model, could play a significant from good initial design to minimize environmental role in progressing towards a less impactful industry impacts and maximise energy efficiency through passive sector. means. This is what we are actively trying to promote. Since this vision was first conceptualized, we have gone a Post-construction long way and are still growing strong into what has become our journey towards sustainability. Following the success of the construction phase, it quickly became apparent that much more could be achieved than The construction phase just growing the business without further consideration for the environment. On the contrary, we had to take This journey did not start without major obstacles. At the advantage of this unique position to continue on our path time of construction, our vision of a sustainable hotel was of sustainability through retrofitting and Cleantech seen as very unusual by many of our contractors and investments. stakeholders and it took determination and passion to proceed in making it a reality, the way we wanted it to be. As such, numerous initiatives and investments have gone into further reducing the environmental impacts postPerhaps one of our strongest and most unusual construction. To site a few: determination was to preserve all the existing trees on site. The location on a forested part of Sentosa Water minimization through numerous water saving and on a hill side did not prove easy. In order to preserve features including an elaborate water treatment system. these trees, we had to apply most unusual This system makes use of an underground natural spring construction techniques. These measures have reservoir which was discovered during construction (all allowed us to construct a 200 room hotel while the water for gardening and other applications such as the preserving over 200 fully grown trees and pool is not making use of any precious tap water but instead uses a natural resource that we have the chance of planting another 450 trees post construction. At having on site); SBR, the trees are literally integrated within the building’s structures. SBR Sustainability Report 2019 14 Introduction Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Our journey towards sustainability Energy use minimization through smart appliances (best We have donated to various environmental and social in class energy efficient lighting solution) but most notably causes including a single donation for the amount of half a through the early investment in a heat exchange system million dollars to the National University of Singapore which was one of the first to be installed in Singapore; for the purpose of raising funds to bring real dinosaur bones to Singapore. Management and outreach Special projects and R&D The next logical step in our journey towards becoming a SBR has embarked on a range of special projects that many more sustainable business model was to relook into our might see as unusual in a hotel environment. Some of these management to incorporate sustainable practices projects include: at all levels of operations. This was already implemented since the beginning but we went into a great -Roof top gardening: where we produce our own deal of effort to revamp our policies and staff training vegetables organically using an experimental worm methods to push the concept of sustainability even further composting system that we manage on site. Part of the and making sure that it is well integrated and production goes back to our F&B department. communicated throughout the organization, not just as guidelines, but more like a corporate culture. -The display of real dinosaur bones on site in order to promote the Lee Kong Chian Natural History Museum and CSR outreach on conservation issues. CSR was the most visible change in our outreach initiative. -Numerous environmental outreach messages onsite The level of commitment to outreach on sustainable through various means such as mascots, display panels, in initiatives through our CSR programs is truly an house environmental TV channels and more, which we use achievement. SBR has since been running successful to promote awareness on the most pressing global and local outreach programs to various schools and organisations. environmental issues such as Global Climate Change, pollution, biodiversity losses, water conservation… Some of our most visible outreach platforms to date include the Biodiversity.sg platform Our credentials as a small business promoting (www.biodiversity.sg) as well as our successful Eco Tours sustainability practices: which we use to communicate our practices to various stakeholders (to date more than 21,000 people from SBR is the winner/recipient of several awards : sectors as diverse as schools, universities, corporations, •Singapore President’s Award for the Environment; government agencies…have undertaken our eco tours). •Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship Award •Enabling Employer Award We regularly outreach on global environmental issues •PUB Watermark Award through our contribution to various media platforms •Community in Bloom Award including www.eco-business.com (one of Asia-Pacific’s •Landscape Excellence Assessment Framework Award largest environmental business communities). We are • NEA’s Eco Friend Award regularly featured in press releases as well as articles and • The Singapore Honorary PUB Watermark Award; blogs on sustainability best practices not just in Singapore •ASEAN Business Award for CSR; but increasingly on an international level. •Singapore Environment Achievement Awards (Top achiever); Donations •The Singapore Sustainability Award; •Singapore Special Mention CSR Award; We regularly donate to various environment or social •One of the first hotels in South East Asia to be certified as related causes should it be in the form of sponsorship of an Eco Hotel from TUV Rheinland (from 2009– 2012) events, direct donations or providing facilities. •One of the first hotels in Singapore to join The UN Global Compact; •And numerous other recognitions… SBR Sustainability Report 2019 15 Siloso Beach Resort Introduction Staying for Good Our journey towards sustainability Commitment At SBR, we are convinced that corporate sustainability is the only way forward and we will continue on our journey towards continuous improvement in this direction. We believe that a single small business like ourselves can play a role by not just adopting such practices to our own business but, in our opinion even more importantly, to remain active in sharing these practices by outreaching to society and possibly inspiring many others to adopt a similar development path. Perhaps our most driving conviction behind all of this is that as a hotel, we are indeed in a position to influence and possibly educate people from all kinds of origins, nationalities, business sectors and interests, on a range of pressing environmental issues. The feeling that we are actually doing this is one of our greatest achievements. I hope that the above very brief highlights give you an overview of what we are trying to do for the environment and sustainability in general even though we are just a small business, and that the following report could inspire many other businesses to embark on this journey of sustainability with us. Sincerely, Mr Kelvin Ng, Managing Director, Siloso Beach Resort SBR’s waterfall Pic: Our latest eco pond SBR Sustainability Report 2019 16 General Disclosures Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good REPORT PROFILE luxurious residences. Nestled within its lush foliage 102-1 Name of the Organization surrounding and overlooking the breath-taking South China Sea, our Resort hosts a wide range of accommodations with Siloso Beach Resort Pte Ltd. 156 rooms, 10 family rooms, 16 roof garden suites and 12 uniquely-designed villas. The name of the resort simply reflects the location name: Indeed, SBR is adjacent to Siloso Beach on Enjoy and relax amongst the balmy shades of flora to the Sentosa Island, Singapore. soothing sounds of cascading waters with amenities and facilities that include a unique natural spring water 102-2 Activities, Brands, Products & Services swimming pool, waterfall feature, water slides, hot water spa pool and a gym room. Dine in the Resort’s Eco Alfresco Café for a more meaningful experience as dishes are Siloso Beach Resort services are in the leisure designed and prepared with herbs and spices that are handindustry which include: picked from its rooftop sustainable farming – a fresh and healthier choice while minimizing carbon footprints. •Providing hotel rooms for stay; Facilities: e.g. swimming pool, waterfall, water slides, children While making every guest’s moment in our Resort a playground, in-house TV channels, exhibits of wonderful memory, our Resort gives priority to the various type on site (mostly biodiversity) environment and its preservation. Over 200 trees that are native to Sentosa were architecturally circumnavigated and •Food and beverage: SBR has a single restaurant protected during the Resort’s construction. In addition, café in which breakfast and daily meals are served. more than 1000 fruit trees, flowering plants, exotic ferns, and herbs were carefully selected and planted. Company logo: Honoured by achieving the President’s Award for the Environment, the Watermark Honorary Award and the ASEAN Business Awards (CSR Category), SBR will continue to drive environment impact reduction efforts in the conservation of resources, minimizing waste, and preservation of nature. SBR brands its services under Siloso Beach Resort SBR is directly involved in providing these services and does not outsource for aspects directly related to main business stream. As a family owned and operated business, unlike most other hotels, SBR does not outsource the management. Being socially responsible, SBR actively provides employment to people with special needs – giving them a Contractors are involved from time to time for chance to learn, develop and earn their own keep. Most aspects such as: importantly, engaging them in activities that build their confidence and celebrate their special talents. •Consultancy Sparing no effort to the good of our environment and •Architecture community, SBR truly is a natural sanctuary that delivers a •Legal affairs unique green experience by engaging guests to discover something new about nature and people, each and every Hotel services information: time they stay. Siloso Beach Resort – Staying for Good. In 2006, Siloso Beach Resort opened its doors to Product responsibility: guests on Siloso beach in the beautiful island of Sentosa – Asia’s leading leisure destination and SBR does not sell any banned or similarly questionable Singapore’s premier island resort – that offers an products. We follow the DMAS (Direct Marketing exciting array of themed attractions, award-winning Association of Singapore) marketing code of conduct. spa retreats, lush rainforests, golden sandy However, we are not one of the members and the code of beaches, resort accommodations, world-renowned practice serves as a general guideline. We review this golf courses, a deep-water yachting marina and voluntary codes on a yearly basis. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 17 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good 102-3 Location of Headquarter Disclosure 102-4 Location of Operations Number of countries where the organization operates: Location: SBR operates from a single site in Sentosa. Sentosa is a small island off the Just 1 Southern coast of Singapore. It is part of Singapore and is easily accessible through Despite the fact that SBR only operates in Singapore, the various types of transportation such as sustainability initiatives that it adopts are relevant in any monorail, public bus or boardwalk. country. This is due to the international nature of the guests staying at the facilities (from over 50 countries). SBR Registered address:Singapore, 51 hopes to spread the environmental awareness to its guests through various environmental initiatives such as Imbiah Walk Sentosa Singapore 099538 complimentary eco-tours. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 18 43 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good Country Reason of importance Europe Europe has taken a lead over many South East Asian (SEA) countries on 102-5 Ownership and Legal Form the sustainability agenda. SBR has great pride in sharing its initiatives Siloso Beach Resort is a privately owned and managed with European guests as a lot can be eco-resort. gained in learning from best Chairman/Owner: Mr Ng Swee Hwa overseas practices within the Managing Director: Mr Kelvin Ng European union North Same as above America People from all around the world transit through SBR which makes it a South East Being countries close to home, SBR prime sustainability awareness hub Asian believes that it can influence local countries SEA guests to apply similar changes within their own countries All other SBR believes that there is a win-win countries situation in interacting with guests from any countries both through learning foreign best sustainability practices and influencing overseas guests to apply SBR practices in their own countries. One of the driving forces for adopting a sustainable The fact that SBR is a privately owned and managed ecobusiness model lies in the fact that as a hotel resort plays an important role in the unique sustainable initiatives which have taken place at the resort since its environment, numerous people from conception. various countries and background transit through the facilities. Indeed, most hotels around the world are not managed by the owners themselves but usually outsourced to This also means that there is a great potential to management companies. However, as the management of passively educate the guests on a range of an eco-hotel is very unique and requires passion and sustainable best practices while spending a good attention to details in order to achieve minimization of time at the resort. As a socially responsible impacts at all levels, the owners at SBR have chosen to corporate citizen, SBR believes it can play its part in manage the hotel themselves. educating the society at large. Limitation factor: Additionally, many hotels are part of SBR sees itself as a local operation with bigger chains and the management is often located overseas. Even if local managers have strong an international outreach. commitments to make a change by adopting a sustainable business model, decisions are often out of their hands which makes procedures much more complicated. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 19 44 General Disclosures Organizational Profile Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good 102-6 Markets Served Guest Origin by Country 2018 SBR accommodates guests from all around the world. As a hotel business, anyone willing to stay at SBR is welcomed to do so and SBR does not apply any discrimination of any kind on the origin of its guests. Sector served: SBR serves clients from all types of sectors (no discriminations) Types of customers: SBR serves all types of customers (no discriminations) Business and markets: ’ SBR categorises its market into 3 categories: Local: Singapore Regional: South East Asia International: the rest of the world SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 20 45 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Reservation modes Staying for Good At SBR , the guests bookings originate from four main forms: Reservation Type (%) for 2018 SBR has had to date a soft marketing campaign policy. Indeed, marketing outreach has never been very aggressive at SBR in a sense that the hotel has relied a lot on word-of-mouth awareness of its facilities and services rather than active promotion through brochures and other means. For a long time, SBR has remained a “hidden secret”. Many locals who have come to the resort have been surprised that they did not hear about the place before through advertising. One of the reasons behind this lies in the philosophical concepts behind SBR that self-awareness is always favored over active and often excessive marketing. It appears to SBR that allowing guests to judge for themselves and communicating on what they have experienced to others is a more sincere way of spreading the word on the resort. Word-of-mouth awareness is a preferred marketing It is only in recent years that awareness on the resort has spread including through its unique environmental and sustainability initiatives mean at SBR which have attracted a lot of visibility and public interest both in Singapore and beyond. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 21 46 102-7 Scale of the Organization Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures 2010: audited Staying for Good 2011: unaudited 2012: unaudited 2013: unaudited Beneficial ownership: 2014: unaudited •Ng Swee Hua 2015: unaudited •Ng Yu Teck 2016: audited Sales/revenues by region: 100% from Sentosa site in 2017: audited Singapore Number of employees: SBR is a reasonably scaled Costs (S$): (Cost is exclusive of depreciation) hotel with around 84 employees Number of operations: 1 single operation •2011: 8,387,625.00 on Sentosa •2012: 9,853,503.00 •2013: 9,344,790.00 Net sales (S$): •2014: 7,124,375.00 •2015: 7,738,767.00 •2011: 13,005,658.00 •2016: 7,609,743.00 •2012: 11,615,059.00 •2017: 7,709,675.00 •2013: 11,234,395.00 •2018: 7,517,674.00 •2014: 11,226,071.00 •2015: 11,732,427.00 •2016: 11,131,539.00 •2017: 10,638,516.00 •2018: 11,335,645.00 Total capitalization (S$): •2011: 10,795,185.00 •2012: 10,089,480.00 •2013: 6,561,821.00 •2014: 4,769,523.00 •2015: 2,911,835.00 “ •2016: 4,463,173.00 •2017: 5,512,738.00 •2018: 4,289,671.00 Quantity of services provided: 3 main services: ’ Room accommodation, meetings/events facilities, and food & beverage. ” Sub-categories: Breakfast, café, laundry, room charges, room services, romantic packages, tel/fax, internet access, shuttle services, pool bar, spa. Financial Data for 2011 to 2018 14,000,000.00 12,000,000.00 10,000,000.00 Cost 8,000,000.00 6,000,000.00 Total Capitalization 4,000,000.00 Net Sales 2,000,000.00 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 SBR Sustainability Report 2019 22 47 EMPLOYMENT Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good 102-8 Information on Employees and Other Workers Total workforce: 84 employees (2018) Employment Male Female Contract Permanent 49 34 Temporary 1 0 Region: All our workforce is on a single site which is the island of Sentosa Employment Type Male Female Full-time 43 30 SBR is a single site operated business. All of our Part-time 6 4 workforce is actually at our hotel. *All data are retrieved from the Human We have a relatively well sized workforce in the Resource department range of 60-100 employees which varies from time to time. Our workforce can be described as: Thebalance between men and women is well distributed, and he numbers tend to change slightly with part timers intakes. We are also constantly having long term interns. Eco conscious They are part of our workforce during the attachment. Attentive SBR is an equal opportunity employer We support: -Diversity -People in need -Fairness -Honesty -Responsibility SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 23 49 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good 102-9 Supply Chain Total number of suppliers: 32 (includes suppliers with over $5,000 SGD in contract value or purchases) As most of our suppliers are related to F&B purchases, we tend to focus our efforts on this area. For example, in early 2018 we switched to using sustainable palm oil in our cooking. Types of supplier by category 2018 1 4 F&B Housekeeping/Amenities Maintenance 9 18 IT Percentage of purchasing by supplier category 2018 2% 12% F&B Housekeeping/Amenities 50% Maintenance 36% IT SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 24 50 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures 102-10 Significant Changes to the Organization and its Supply Chain Staying for Good There have not been any changes in the capital Below is a summary of SBR’s latest awards: structure since the start of operations. Enabling Employer Award Development phases: There have been two main phases of development of the facilities: This year, SBR is honoured to have received the highest accolade “Leader Award” at the 5th •Principal hotel wing (standard rooms, deluxe rooms Enabling Employers Awards on 26 July 2019. and roof top suites) SBR also received the Progressive Employer •Villas wing Award in 2017. Renovation work: Organized by SG Enable, the Enabling Main guest rooms: SBR is currently in a renovation Employers Awards recognize the collective phase which is ongoing and being conducted in effort of organisations and individuals who have several phases through the various room types. demonstrated commitment towards hiring and integrating people with disabilities in the Villa wing: SBR is currently modifying its villas to workforce. The “Leader Award” is given to the accommodate more family oriented guests. resort in recognition of our efforts to provide opportunities and create an inclusive work General works: Small upgrades (e.g. new staircases/corridors, new floor mats…) are taking environment for our staff with disabilities place throughout the resort. SBR was among the 2 companies receiving the Ongoing renovation! Leader Award, which is the highest tier in the Employer Awards category. In total, 111 companies were recognised at the ceremony. Siloso Beach Resort is the recipient of various prestigious awards and certifications which it has Certainly the resort has seen many benefits received in recognition of efforts to reduce its impact from the program, both in terms of fostering on the environment, foster a company-wide culture of greater independence and confidence for its environmental awareness, and give back to society employees with disabilities, as well as valuable and nature through educational tours and CSR contributions to the company operations and projects. culture. These awards and certifications are an important way to communicate to the stakeholders the sincerity of the commitment to preserving the environment. Through these achievements, we hope to set the environmental benchmark higher for the tourism industry in Singapore and South East Asia. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 25 51 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship Award Staying for Good We are proud to announce that SBR is one of the winners of the Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship Award, in the Green Leadership Category. The Previous Year’s Awards Awards Ceremony was held on 2 June 2017 in Bangkok, Thailand. Landscape Excellence Assessment Framework 2016 & 2013 Siloso Beach Resort is proud to receive Singapore’s National Parks Landscape Excellence Assessment Framework (LEAF) Certification 2016 & 2013 – Outstanding Project! “Since 2009, AREA has been hosted regionally, namely for the South Asia, East Asia, and Landscape Excellence Assessment Framework Southeast Asia chapters awarding companies for (LEAF) is a voluntary certification scheme by their respective nations. National Parks Board (NParks) that seeks to encourage property developers to focus on In 2015 Enterprise Asia had embarked on a more landscape enhancement as an integral part of inclusive AREA 2015 chapter awarding the best development and marketing. Provide recognition CSR programmes from the whole of Asia. for excellent efforts by developers in greenery provision, protection of trees, and encouragement The Ceremony sees to hundreds of attendees, of biodiversity. including business and government leaders, diplomatic representatives, social and community PUB Watermark Award leaders, local and international media. The Watermark Award was introduced in 2007 to As Asia’s leading award for responsible recognise individuals and organisations for their entrepreneurship, AREA aims to inculcate a culture outstanding contributions and commitment to of ethics and universal justice in the running of protect and raise awareness of Singapore’s businesses as part of a sustainable entrepreneurial precious water resources. framework.” – enterpriseasia.org Siloso Beach Resort (SBR), which has been conferred the Watermark Honorary Award for its exemplary contributions towards water and environmental sustainability in Singapore, centres its efforts on reducing potable water usage in their operations and promoting public awareness on water conservation. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 26 52 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good PUB Honorary Water Mark Award 2015 PUB Watermark Award The PUB Honorary Water Mark Award was given to SBR for its outstanding water conservation projects but also its overall holistic approach to sustainability SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 27 53 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Previous Year’s Awards Staying for Good Singapore President’s Award for the Environment 2013 Community In Bloom 2016 & 2014 – Platinum Band The President's Award for the Environment Community In Bloom is a program by the National (PAE) Parks Board to promote community gardening. The President’s Award for the Environment is Our Eco-Resort achieved this recognition due to the highest environmental accolade for various green and community activities, including individuals, organizations and companies that preservation of biodiversity, earthworm composting, have made significant contributions towards and promoting sustainable growing methods to environmental and water resource sustainability schools and the community. in Singapore. It recognizes and honors the sustained environmentand water-related contributions by environmental champions from the People, Public and Private (3P) sectors. Beyond that, this prestigious award also aims to inspire more individuals, organizations and companies to step forward and join the effort to tackle our environmental challenges. Enabling Employer Awards 2014 – In Recognition The Enabling Employers Awards gives recognition to organisations that have hired people with disabilities and have made efforts to integrate them with their workforce. About 14% of SBR’s staff are persons with disabilities. Siloso Beach Resort received the President’s Award for the Environment from President Tony Tan Keng Yam on 24 September 2013, at the Singapore Environment and Water Awards Ceremony 2013. SBR Sustainability Report 2019 28 54 Previous Year’s Awards Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good ASEAN Business Award (CSR Category, 2012) Singapore Environment Achievement Awards (top achiever 2010) The resort was recognized for its social and environmental programs as a “Most Admired The criterion for the SEAA focus on assessing the ASEAN Enterprise” under the Corporate Social leadership displayed by the company, the real Responsibility award category for SMEs (Smallenvironmental improvement made as well as the Medium Enterprises). The award recognizes ability of an organisation to establish procedures, train admired ASEAN businesses in four areas: staff and innovate in order to achieve breakthroughs growth, employment, innovation and CSR. This in environmental performance. award is unique because unlike previous awards received by the resort, this was Siloso Beach Resort achieved recognition for its regional and those applying for the award commitment to sustainability and ecological came from the various ASEAN countries. The preservation and was awarded the SEAA Top Achiever criteria for the award was also heavily focused Award for 2010. Since the SEAA was started in 1997, on not just the environmental impact, but also this is the first time that the award has been given contributions to the community and society. to a hotel. Singapore Sustainability Award (top Eco-certified hotel from TUV Rheinland achiever 2011) (from 2009 – 2012) In 2009, TUV Rheinland performed a certification audit at Siloso Beach Resort with the objective to determine, whether the implemented environmental management system meets the requirements for obtaining the TUV Rheinland’s “Eco-Hotel” certification program. The certification requirements also encompassed ISO 14000 criteria for an environmental management system. We declined to In 2011, a total of 68 companies submitted for renew our certification after 2012. the Singapore Sustainability Awards, with 9 winners chosen among the various categories, Singapore Compact Awards – Special with SBR being the only Top Honour Winner in its category. Mention (2010) Although SBR has achieved other awards, this At the 1st Singapore Compact CSR Awards, held during one is the first to take all 3 aspects of the international Singapore Compact CSR Summit, SBR sustainability into equal consideration: received the Special mention Award for our strong economic, social, and environmental. commitment to the environment and corporate social responsibility. Over the last 9 years, SBR has been awarded important awards & certifications for its sustainability efforts… SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 29 55 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Staying for Good Disclosure 102-11 Precautionary Principle or Approach SBR has put into place stringent codes of conduct when it comes to adopting a precautionary approach at all levels of its operations. The SBR sustainability committee plays a crucial role in the company applying the precautionary principle at all levels of operations and systematically. The below diagram highlights the procedure: Recently SBR has undergone a risk management training and application in which external auditors have conducted a risk assessment audit. Following recommendations from the auditors, numerous changes have been made to manage risks in a most effective and ethical way. “ “ ” ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 30 56 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good 102-12 External Initiatives SBR adheres to a range of externally developed charters and principles. While some of them are Below are some of the guidelines: government regulations, many are voluntary Standard Where Date of Stakeholder Type initiatives by SBR to follow these standards and applie adoptio s often even exceed them. d n While SBR implements many of its own regulations UN Global SBR Since MultiBinding and principles, it is important to base these Compact Feb 2012 stakeholders principles and adhere to a range of internationally agreed standards. Risk SBR Since Jan Multi bizSAFE management 2012 level 3 Adopting a range of externally developed standards also reinforces SBR’s management policies and Fire safety SBR since Multi Legally insures that the company has a strong backbone 2006 binding and set of standard operation procedures (SOP’s) in F&B/ food SBR since NEA Legally place. hygiene 2006 binding Eco Hotel SBR 2009 Multi Voluntary Guidelines/TU 2012 V Rheinland Eco Hotel SBR 2011 Multi voluntary guidelines/SEC 2012 Singapore SBR Since Multi Legally Construction construc binding codes tion “ “ ” ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 31 57 102-13 Membership of Associations Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures SBR is associated with a range of stakeholder Staying for Good organizations. While some are related to the hotel business many have been established through the Association Comment sustainability programs and CSR outreach. Global Compact A primary point of contact for CSR related Network Singapore events and support in Singapore. As a SBR believes that being a member of these member, SBR is regularly involved in associations extends its sphere of influence and in seminars and meetings organized by this organization. SBR has also sponsored some many instances allows it to play its corporate of these events. citizen role. Association Comment Singapore SBR is actively supporting the work of SEC Delta Senior Just this year, SBR started our Environment through sponsorships or direct School (DSS) partnership with DSS where we will Council involvements. have 5 students from their horticulture program interning in our landscape department. If everything PUB’s Friends of SBR is an active member of the Public Utility goes well, it will be extended to other Water Network Board’s Friends of Water Network, and departments (F&B and supports efforts to promote water Housekeeping). We will continue to conservation. work with them to provide opportunities for people with mild St Andrew’s Autism SBR actively supports the integration of intellectual disability. Centre people with disabilities through its eco-business.com Asia-Pacific’s largest environmental partnership with the organization. business community. As a member and an approved client, SBR submits Tripartite Alliance Inspired by TAFEP’s guide on Working with regular environmental related for Fair People with Disabilities, SBR created a articles to this platform . Employment handbook for our employees and managers Mountbatten SBR provides internships to students Practices (TAFEP) to refer to. We implement and support fair Vocational School employment practices in the workplace of Mountbatten Vocational School who best match the people we are looking for. Currently, they are working in our F&B Department. UN Global Compact Signatory/Member. The United Nations global CSR initiative is the world's largest National Learning Journey partner for PS21 CSR initiative that aims to drive more Environment Excel Convention 2010. SBR is the first sustainable practices in businesses Agency learning journey partner from the throughout the world. Since 2012. private sector . Sentosa Island Sentosa Island regularly organises Partner meetings between its island partners and often by inviting third party organisations to discuss about future and potential development plans of the island. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 32 58 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Association Comment Staying for Good Make a wish SBR regularly donates to this Foundation foundation which aims to give children with life threatening illness an opportunity to realize a SBR is active in engaging wish with stakeholders through National University Member, Raffles Museum. SBR memberships and active of Singapore financially supports many causes of the museum contributions. While many Open Door Fund Member. Facilitating recruitment partnerships are already (recruiting disable and senior persons) for the disabled and the senior persons established, SBR constantly seeks new engagements Singapore Business Member as a corporate but also Federation as a participant in their opportunities…interested? sustainability forums Singapore Signatory/Member. SBR is Packaging committed to reducing its Agreement packaging waste. and many others… In the past 3 years alone, SBR has established numerous partnerships with various stakeholders in very different fields from environmental and social NGO’s to government organization and the private sector. So far for SBR, joining an organization through membership has usually resulted in other means of collaboration going beyond the simple membership (e.g. organizing mutual events, sponsorship of events, working on mutual programs…) “ ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 33 59 Impacts, Risks & Opportunities 102-14 Statement from senior decisionSiloso Beach Resort maker Staying for Good General Disclosures A statement from our Managing Director has been published with our Sustainability Report 2018 (see Main processes in place to address performance page 7 -8) and/or relevant changes 102-15 Key Impacts, Risks, and In order to address performance, SBR has a Opportunities Sustainability Committee in place. The committee meets at least twice a year to assess the progress made and As a hotel business, Siloso Beach Resort benchmark against standards and targets. Under the acknowledges the fact that its operations have guidance of the committee, annual targets are set to impacts on the surrounding environment and address key sustainability issues. Key performance sustainability in general. indicators are also put into place by the committee to monitor and track changes and progress over time. Key environmental impacts are of various sorts, the below points highlight the major During these meetings, issues regarding performance and ones: potential changes are addressed which often leads to strategic planning and setting targets and objectives. SBR key impacts •Use of natural resources: Concrete products (sand, limestone…), steel and other metals, wood products, living resources (F&B)… •Atmospheric emissions: Mostly from energy consumption which in Singapore originates from the combustion of natural gas. Other emissions are from activities such as transportation, gardening and other maintenance activities. •Land disturbance: Construction activities have required some disturbance to the original landscape (despite the tremendous and unique efforts that have been made to limit the impacts). •Noise disturbance: During construction and hotel operations •Water consumption: Consumption of tap water from the network SBR Sustainability Committee regularly addresses performances and applies changes as needed •Water contamination: Rejects of contaminated water from operations to drains Approach to prioritizing these challenges and opportunities •Wastes : Various wastes (organic & non-organic) SBR considers all the above impacts to be important but it also acknowledges that some have higher impacts than •Biodiversity: As a forested terrain, SBR activities others and therefore should be given different reduction have an impact on biodiversity (despite tremendous priorities. and unique efforts made to reduce the impacts). Many of these impacts (not all) are regulated under SBR acknowledges the fact that its Singapore law (e.g. noise, water contamination…). activities, as a business, have impacts on SBR is proud to meet and in most instances the surrounding environment and that it exceed these legal requirements. can work towards reducing these impacts SBR Sustainability Report 2019 34 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good The beginning: Picture: Mr. Ng (owner) and contractor entering the forest site of what will become Siloso Beach Resort (2003) “When we first saw the site it was very apparent to us that if we were going to build a hotel here the terrain and its trees will have to be preserved to a great extent. We took this as a challenge not an obstacle ; this is precisely why we chose this site” Mr Ng SBR Sustainability Report 2019 35 Constructing the General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good resort Building the resort inside a rainforest was a major challenge Constant reminders and training of the construction team was a daily exercise to ensure the preservation of the trees. Often times, contractors would put their equipment directly below the trees (as shown in the photo) which we needed to correct. Panels were put in place reading “keep the trees alive!” Littering was constantly monitored throughout the site and emphasized through staff meetings. Monitoring was intense. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 36 23 General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Constructing the resort Staying for Good In order not to damage the trees’ roots, a special technique known as micro bore piling had to be used (vibrations were greatly reduced by doing so) Constructing within a rainforest surrounded by trees also meant to use smaller machinery so as to navigate within the terrain to limit damage to the surrounding. Heavy machinery could not be used. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 37 24 Constructing the General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good resort Building on stilts allowed better protection to the trees and to build on a sloped terrain. SBR Sustainability Report 2019 38 25 Environmental Impacts General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort •Use of natural resources: (high priority) As a hotel Staying for Good the usage of natural resources is high. There are however a multitude of ways in which these impacts can be reduced. Key conclusions about progress in addressing •Atmospheric Emissions: (high priority) SBR these topics and related performance in the acknowledges the seriousness of climate change reporting period and believes that it can play its role by significantly reducing its emissions and showcasing these efforts. •Use of natural resources: Numerous progress have been made to reduce the usage of natural resources of all sorts. •Land disturbance: (high priority) Because SBR has Current achievements are judged satisfactory and SBR will been built on a pristine forested environment, continue to pursue its natural resources minimization preserving the terrain has always been of high strategy with targets for continuous improvements. importance. •Atmospheric emissions: Numerous initiatives have been •Noise: (low priority) SBR operates at below legal taken to reduce energy consumption. There is still a lot that noise level. Noise has never been an issue within can be achieved at SBR in terms of reducing emissions. SBR the hotel facilities. SBR however closely monitors its has identified this aspect as one of its priorities for the noise levels to ensure that there is no disturbance coming years. to its guests and wildlife. •Land disturbance: Tremendous efforts have been put in •Water consumption: (high priority) SBR place since the very beginning of construction work. Land continuously pushes to reduce its tap water usage. disturbance reduction efforts have been very successful. However, due to the unique location of the resort SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. above a natural water source and numerous water saving measures in place, tap water consumption is •Noise: Noise levels have never been an issue within the already very low for a hotel of its size. premises. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field. Noise pollution from outside the premises •Wastes: (high priority) SBR already has many remains an issue programs in place to reduce its wastes, often by reusing whatever waste can be utilised in other •Water consumption: Initiatives undertaken at SBR since its ways. SBR actively practices the 3R’s. conception have resulted in very low water consumption. Water saving has been evident. SBR will continue to push •Biodiversity: (high priority) Because SBR has been for limited impacts in this field. built on a pristine forested terrain, preserving the biodiversity on site has always been of high •Water contamination: SBR does not have rejects of importance. hazardous substances in significant amounts. Water contamination at SBR is judged insignificant to date •Energy use: (high priority) SBR is continuously trying new ways to reduce its energy usage through •Wastes: Since its conception, SBR has implemented the adoption of new practices and technologies. numerous programs to reduce its wastes. Initiatives have resulted in very minimal waste being generated including from the F&B department. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field •Biodiversity: Since its construction phase, SBR has taken extreme measures to preserve the biodiversity on site. This aspect has been very successful and exemplary. SBR will continue to push for limited impacts in this field •Energy use: Great achievements have already taken place at SBR to reduce energy usage and the hotel will continue to push for improvements SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 39 26 Siloso Beach Resort Main resort entrance Staying for Good At SBR the structures blend with the surrounding vegetation SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sutainability Report 2014 40 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Central roof top , along suite wing SBR’s extensive roof top space One of the main roof top at SBR is used for a variety of purposes going from a plant nursery to a roof top vegetable farm to open air Jacuzzis to a flexible event space used for special occasions. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 41 Siloso Beach Resort Our very unique luxurious villas Staying for Good One of the villas, living room Luxury villas with a very special touch While offering 12 luxury high end villas to its guests, the most unusual aspect of these villas is that most of them have several live trees passing straight through the living space. This feature was done as one of the extraordinary efforts to preserve the existing trees on site. It also provides a special atmosphere to the rooms. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 42 Our villas offer a unique retreat Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good and peaceful atmosphere SBR 2 bedroom villa with pool Villa self maintained pond SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 43 41 General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Our Villa Wing Staying for Good SBR Villa Wing A truly unique retreat surrounded by nature… SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 44 27 Assessing Materiality 2018 Siloso Beach Resort Elements of primary importance: Staying for Good Of course as a business, our priorities are not only towards the environment. The below highlights a bigger picture of our priorities: Through various surveys and internal discussions the below profile of materiality for the organization emerged. While all aspects listed below are important to SBR and its stakeholders , we can within this shortlist assign areas of importance based on the compilation of both SBR’s as well as stakeholders preferences. • Economic: It is probably surprising to most people that SBR does not see marketing or financial profit as its top priority. SBR has always been more of a social enterprise rather than a for profit business. It is important for SBR that its business is self-sustaining and from a financial point of view the hotel has been doing reasonably well since it started business which can be seen as a good example that a business applying sustainability practices can also do well financially. • Environment: As an eco-resort, the environment is a top priority, thus almost all aspects were included. • Social: It is not surprising that as a hotel, guest satisfaction, safety, and employment rank high. Many other important social aspects were not included in the assessment, as they are already well regulated in Singapore, and thus were not a significant concern to SBR or its stakeholders. These include aspects related compulsory labor, collective bargaining, anti-competitive behavior, public policy, child labor, and indigenous rights, Significance to stakeholders 10 Guest Satisfaction Diversity & Equal Opp Health & Safety Non-discrimination Privacy Training & Education Employment Products & Services Biodiversity Compliance 8 Energy/Water Materials Economic Performance Emissions/Effluents Local Communities and waste 6 Marketing & Labeling Market Presence 5 Significance of Impact 0 5 6 8 10 Economic Environment Social  Employment  Economic Performance  Materials  Occupational Health and Safety  Market Presence  Energy/Water  Training and Education  Biodiversity  Diversity and Equal Opportunity  Emissions/ Effluents and  Non-discrimination Waste  Local Communities  Products and Services  Marketing Communications  Compliance  Customer Health and Safety/ Customer Privacy Siloso Beach SBRResort Sustainability Corporate SustainabilityReport 2019 Report 2014 45 29 General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities Description of the most important risks and Siloso Beach Resort opportunities for the organization arising Staying for Good from sustainability trends SBR is conscious that many sustainability trends Prioritization of key sustainability topics as risks and both local and international are a risk to the opportunities business but SBR tends to see them as opportunities. The below points highlight what SBR SBR addresses sustainability topics in a very holistic way. Its has identified as major risks to its operations both in approach is not just focused on local issues but also on the short and long term and the opportunities that international sustainability aspects. they create. SBR has identified the following aspects as priorities: Risks Opportunities Climate change related Global Climate Change; Global Biodiversity Loss; risks: -Opportunity for Global depletion of fresh water resources; -Sea level rise (as a beach Investment in Cleantech Operations Financial growth. resort, SBR is very concerned about this in anticipation of rising energy costs. SBR believes that it can play its role in all of the above to trend). various extents (mostly by raising awareness on the issues), however it also believes it can be more effective by focusing -Increase of occurrence of -Opportunity for on particular aspects. For this reason, biodiversity issues vector borne diseases (e.g. partnerships with various have been chosen as SBR’s primary focus point. Dengue). As SBR’s facilities stakeholders in raising are on a densely vegetated awareness on these terrain, increase of topics. Targets, performance against targets, and lessons mosquito occurrence is a learned for the current reporting period concern. SBR is very target oriented. The following sections highlight -Rise in ambient these targets temperatures (and therefore rise in energy needs) . -Implementation of more “ severe government tax on aspects such as emissions, water consumption in response to mounting environmental pressures. Global financial instabilities: World financial instability. ” As a business significantly dependant on foreign -Opportunities to secure tourists, financial crises business sustainability by have a direct impact on diversifying the business SBR’s operations. Local pollution -Opportunities to invest in cleaner technologies and anticipate for future pollution taxes SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 46 30 General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Targets Staying for Good SBR is very target oriented, every year old targets are reviewed and new ones are set. SBR has in fact been setting itself targets since its conception and has an excellent track record of meeting the targets that it fixes itself. Below is a list of our latest targets which have been set over the years. Most of these targets have been achieved. A list of targets set for years prior to the reporting period are available in annex Targets for the 2018 – 2019 reporting period: Component Target Comment Marketing To increase targeted marketing with regards to the villas and Ongoing / Continued functions from previous year Financial profit To remain stable with regards to previous years income and Ongoing / Continued possibly increase sales from previous year Guests satisfaction To improve guests satisfaction through room renovations and Ongoing / Continued improvement of the café area from previous year Service quality To improve service quality through training in housekeeping Ongoing / Continued and F&B from previous year Safety To remain current safety standards and continuously mitigate Ongoing / Continued risks from previous year Regulatory To remain compliant with all local regulations Ongoing / Continued requirements from previous year Energy Consumption To maintain the current energy consumption levels and Ongoing / Continued possibly improve from previous year Implement energy audit for chiller system Ongoing / Continued from previous year Water resources To maintain the current energy consumption levels and Ongoing / Continued possibly improve from previous year Carbon emissions To maintain the current carbon emissions levels and possibly Ongoing / Continued improve from previous year SBR Sustainability Report 2019 47 31 General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities Siloso Beach Resort Targets Staying for Good Targets for the 2018 – 2019 reporting period (continued): Component Target Comment Employees satisfaction To improve employees satisfaction through Ongoing / Continued from benefits review and activities previous year Customer feedback To improve response time to feedbacks to less Ongoing / Continued from than 24h previous year Innovation and R&D To continue R&D on aspects such as food waste Ongoing / Continued from and small scale renewable systems previous year Social responsibility To continue hiring people with special needs Ongoing / Continued from and maintain over 15 % of workforce previous year Environmental outreach To continue to outreach through the Ongoing / Continued from biodiversity.sg platform previous year Waste generated To maintain current levels or even reduce the Ongoing / Continued from amount of waste generated previous year Onsite biodiversity To continue with sustainable pest control Ongoing / Continued from practices and enhance landscaping initiatives previous year Ethical business To continue to comply with all ethical Ongoing / Continued from practices regulations and even exceed them previous year Suppliers To work towards gradually phasing out Ongoing / Continued from products using unsustainable palm oil previous year (modified to allow for sustainable palm oil products) Setting ourselves new targets year on year helps us keep focus SBR Sustainability Report 2019 48 32 General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities Our swimming pool is one Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good of a kind Our swimming pool is the heart of our resort SBR Sustainability Report 2019 49 33 Siloso Beach Resort Disclosures General Disclosures A Jungle Resort General Staying for Good SBR Central space At SBR, the vegetal coverage is so dense that most of our buildings & structures appear hidden in the vegetation SBR Sustainability Report 2019 50 50 SBR’s Waterfall Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good In addition to being an enjoyment for our guests, our waterfall is also part of an innovative swimming pool treatment system SBR Sustainability Report 2019 51 51 General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities Targets for the next reporting period and midSiloso Beach Resort term objectives and goals (i.e., 3-5 years) Staying for Good related to key risks and opportunities. targets Categoryfor the next reporting Targets period: Natural resources Reduce the use of natural resources by another 3% (relative to previous reporting period) Global Biodiversity Loss: Atmospheric Reduce carbon emissions by 3% •Objective: Preservation of biodiversity remains a key emissions (relative to previous reporting aspect of how SBR operates. SBR is committed to preserve period) a rich biodiversity on its premises and to actively promote global biodiversity conservation through outreach programs. Land disturbance Continue to increase vegetal coverage by 3% through roof •Goal: SBR will continue in its efforts to preserve and top gardening and use of other increase habitats on its premises in order to host a variety of species . This includes the preservation of existing trees existing surfaces and ponds and their associated species. Noise Keep noise levels at current Water Reduce tap water consumption consumption by 3% (relative to previous reporting period) Operations financial growth: Water Further improve the treatment contamination of waste water from the resort •Objective: SBR takes the concept of sustainability in a before being discharged (e.g. holistic way which encompasses not only environmental further improve grease trap and social issues but also financial sustainability and treatments) economic growth. SBR intends to continue its business in an environmentally and socially sustainable way while Wastes Reduce waste by another 3% remaining financially viable. (relative to previous reporting period) •Goal: SBR intends to continue to grow the business and achieve long term financial growth. Biodiversity Continue to increase biodiversity by providing new Depletion of fresh water resources: habitats for species •Objective: At SBR the water management is already very Energy use Further improve energy good and tap water consumption very low for an hotel of its efficiency through Cleantech. size. SBR will however continue to intensify efforts to even Reduce by 3% push the water saving initiatives further by both improving on water efficiency and by maintaining the health of its spring water reservoir. Mid term objectives and goals •Goal: Invest in Cleantech to better control water Global Climate Change: consumption in guest rooms (where most of the current tap water consumption occurs). •Objective: SBR takes the risks posed by climate change seriously and will continue to develop by integrating elements which will both reduce its Reducing by 3% may not carbon emissions and provide adaptive advantages seem much but to a changing environment. because our waste, water and energy usage is already •Goal: In the medium term SBR intends to become a carbon neutral hotel by offsetting its emissions. very low it is actually a challenge SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 52 34 Governance mechanisms in place to General Impacts, Risks Disclosures & Opportunities specifically manage these risks and Siloso Beach Resort opportunities, and identification of other Staying for Good related risks and opportunities. Governance mechanisms: Risks Bi-annual SBR believes that the approach is to integrate ways review to manage these risks within the long term plan of the organisation rather than to ignore them. A long and slow adaptation is a better path than a sudden and unplanned change. The risks identified as significant are taken into consideration during sustainability committee Sustainability Committee meetings and minimisation targets are set to address these risks. Previously set targets and goals are then reassessed during the next meetings and a new set of targets and management decisions are taken to best address these risks. Guidelines Targets Other related risks and opportunities In addition to the primary risks and opportunities identified, SBR has also highlighted other elements Risk Opportunities Safety at work To take appropriate measures to (HSE) ensure a first class safety environment for its staff “ Guests safety To ensure that the place is safe for the guests Development To make the business even more of new hotels competitive especially by in Singapore focusing on our eco concept New To put more emphasis in government developing a local work force rules on foreign hires Increase To put further emphasis in guests improving quality of services and expectations facilities Humidity To redesign aspects of the resort related issues in order to cope better with such in hotel issues facilities Potential To further improve safety onsite Burglary issues through greater surveillance and monitoring SBR Sustainability Report 2019 53 35 Siloso Beach Resort Our open air corridors Staying for Good Our open concept corridors SBR’s Open Concept Many places at SBR adopt an open concept, should it be for the corridors, the café area and other public spaces. This concept allows amongst other benefits to have a feeling of being surrounded by greenery SBR Sustainability Report 2019 54 102-16 Values, Principles, Standards, and Norms Siloso Beach Resort Ethics and General Integrity Disclosures of Behaviour Staying for Good SBR has a well-established code of conduct which covers principles relevant to economic, social and environmental attributes. These guidelines are compulsory and applied throughout the departments. General orientation, covers: safety, environment training , work ethics, corporate values “ “ ” ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 55 80 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures GOVERNANCE Staying for Good 102-18 Governance Structure 102-19 Delegating Authority Senior Management: Siloso Beach Resort is a family owned and operated business. Senior management (responsible for executive decisions) comprises of family members: •Mr Ng Swee Hwa: Chairman/Owner •Mr Kelvin Ng: Managing Director/Owner •Ms Felicia Ng: Sales and Reservations Manager As a small family run organization, the number of company executives is limited and comprises of a majority of male representatives. Ratio 2:1 Senior advising group is comprised of a Sustainability Committee. Decisions of the committee have influence on family members decisions. The Sustainability Committee is responsible for analysing key executive decisions on economic, environmental and social impacts in the organisation. Below shows the gender ratio in the committee. As a family owned business, our owner has the final say in all decisions being made. The Sustainability Committee The Sustainability Committee comprises of 9 members of which 5 are male and 4 are female: is responsible for executive decisions. The Sustainability Committee comprises of senior executives and the decisions and conveyed to employees in various departments. 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics Female Male SBR is a family owned and managed resort hotel. SBR does not have a unitary board structure. Male Female A detailed composition of the Sustainability Committee is given at Section . SBR Sustainability Report 2019 56 74 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures GOVERNANCE Staying for Good 102-21 Consulting Stakeholders on Economic, 102-22 Composition of the Highest Governance Body Environmental, and Social Topics and its Committees Shareholders engagement: SBR is a family owned and managed resort hotel. SBR SBR has various mechanisms in place to collect does not have a unitary board structure. feedbacks from its stakeholders which includes Report the composition of the highest governance service providers, suppliers and hotel guests. body and its committees by: Executive or non-executive Hotel guests are able to provide feedback through Independence various means which include : Tenure on the governance body Number of each individual’s other significant positions •Pre established feedback forms available in every and commitments, and the nature of the room and which are then collected by the staff during room cleaning; commitments Gender •Approaching one of the staff directly who will then Membership of under-represented social groups report to their department managers; Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts •Websites: The resort’s website provides various Stakeholder representation sections especially designed to collect feedbacks as well as through third party sites such as TripAdvisor which allows guests to review the hotel. SBR 102-23 Chair of the Highest Governance Body regularly scans these sites to gather feedback and take corrective action if necessary. The chairman, Mr Ng Swee Hwa, is also an executive officer in the organisation. Highest authority in the organisation is by the owner himself, which is also an executive officer in the organisation. “ The reason for this arrangement is that SBR was built from the very beginning with direct guidance from the owner to make SBR a very unique hotel with a strong commitment in ’ sustainability and environmental preservation. As outsourcing an environmentally conscious management is proven very difficult to find, It was crucial that the owner and family members remained actively involved in the ” management of SBR in order to stay committed to preserving the environment and promoting sustainable practices. :“ ’ ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 57 75 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures GOVERNANCE Staying for Good 102-24 Nominating and Selecting the Highest Governance Body SBR has a process in place in order to assign members of its various governance boards: Governance boards are comprised of advisory committees of which: : Governance boards are comprised of advisory committees of which: •The Sustainability Committee •The Risk Management Committee •The General Review Committee New committee members are appointed for a period of 2 years after which their relevance on the board is reassessed. Diversity: SBR does not conduct gender discrimination when appointing new members. Efforts are made to aim towards an equilibrium between number of man and women in the committees. 102-25 Conflicts of interest SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 58 76 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good 102-28 Evaluating the Highest Governance Body’s Performance During meetings, the performance of existing targets and objectives are reviewed. Each department manager will then provide the results of the performance of previous fixed targets in the environment, social and economic aspects. If previous targets have not been achieved, an investigation is launched to determine the reason and also to fix new targets. A number of indicators have been put in place in order to regularly assess the performance of the organisation with regards to economics, environment and social aspects. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 59 77 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good 102-33 Communicating Critical Concerns SBR has a well-established process for collecting feedbacks from its employees. In order to do this, regular meetings are organized at two levels: Intra-department meetings: Managers of the different departments meet with their respective staffs to collect feedback. Feedback is then transmitted to the sustainability committee Inter-department meetings: These meetings involve departments managers with general management. Several committees have been established for this purpose: -SBR sustainability committee SBR has open policies with regards to -SBR safety and risk management committee -SBR Annual review committee collecting feedbacks from its employees A feedback collection box is another General feedback collection mechanisms for employees to provide feedback mechanism anonymously should they not wish to interact with the management directly. Incoming feedback Every feedback is taken seriously and analyzed by the management which will SBR Feedback then decide of an First analysis (manager level) collection box appropriate action “ Significant Insignificant ” Sustainability Committee Action recommended Action denied Action denied Executive Corrective Action Director approved SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 60 78 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures 102-35 Remuneration Policies Staying for Good Every employee of the company is subject to employees rules and regulations which include employees rights. These rules are highlighted in the Linkage between compensations employment contract and agreed between the employee and the employer at the time of Level Compensation employment. These include (but are not limited to): Highest Highest governance is the owner of the governance company. Compensation is not fixed but -Number of paid leave and holidays proportional to company profit as per shareholders stakes -Fixed salary and bonuses options Manager Higher base pay than executive and •Compensation: SBR has flexible compensation More annual leave entitlement options for various levels of management which are Performance bonuses customized based on experience and qualifications. Executive Monthly pay package •Departure arrangements: These are the same for Annual leaves entitlement all employees and are subject to one month notice. Performance bonuses Other departure arrangements may occur and Others Monthly pay package arrangements are made on a case to case basis. Rank and Allowance File Performance bonuses Part timers Hourly rated Allowance 102-36 Process for Determining Remuneration SBR deals with remuneration on its own without outside consultants inputs. The salaries As part of our compensation, are set and benchmarked against standards in the industry. It is currently up to the all full time employees benefit management to finalize and adjust salaries based on aspects such as performance, level of from healthcare options experience and education. “ SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 61 79 SUSTAINABILITY IN HOTELS Siloso Beach Resort Originally published by SBR for GreenPearls Staying for Good Case study The hotel industry is one that is rapidly Hotels are intensive ventures where it takes many expending and not without significant years to recover the initial investment. The time environmental and social impacts. There are for recovery can be significantly cut short through still countless hotels which choose to develop operational savings in energy and water costs in remote environments without adequate predominantly as well as other areas. measures and development objectives that protect the environment and local Furthermore, tourism predictions point to the fact communities. This trend should change as that the demand for sustainable tourism is hotels are in a unique position to educate and expected to rise significantly in the coming years, lead change towards more sustainable therefore adopting more sustainable practices not concepts and practices. only provides direct cost savings but will also increasingly serve as a key sales point driving Every business line addressing sustainability business growth. faces unique challenges and opportunities. Hotels is a very unique business sector that Another trend is the fact that more and more both offers great challenges and huge travellers are looking to escape their busy city opportunities through the adoption of a urban jungle lives to hotels which provide an sustainability strategy. While many businesses immersion back to nature. The search for pristine would only deal with specific industry sectors environments with fresh air, living trees and sites and stakeholders, when it comes to hotels the which still hold a diversity of species is becoming sectors of influence are very broad and could the new luxury trend. As people will increasingly drive large scale changes in practices from move to densely populated cities, this aspect will multiple angles. Indeed, hotels are offering become more and more apparent. unique educational grounds considering the large number of people from all around the A holistic approach is key world which transit through them. Despite this simple fact very few hotels have to date taken Most hotels sustainability programs are often only the sustainability agenda beyond regulatory or focused on water and energy and sometimes compliance requirements. waste as well. While return on investment can be achieved faster through these aspects, there are a General confusions on sustainable hotels are range of other aspects hotels should look seriously apparent. Here a sustainable hotel would be into which have important implications on the defined as an entity continuously looking to sustainability of the business. minimize its impacts on the environment and society while maintaining a healthy business Below are certain key elements which can serve as model. It is not a single achievement but a a general sustainability framework which we will continuous improvement strategy. here refer to as the generic DSRSO-approach(TM): It makes business sense 1) Design: the sooner a hotel can look into sustainable consideration the better it is as only so We have heard the same story countless times much can be achieved post construction. If an that adopting more sustainable practices also establishment can start at the design stage than a makes good business sense but this statement great deal of efficiency can be achieved passively. is especially true in the hotel industry. Indeed Aspects such as maximizing open spaces, hotels are high consumers of water, energy preserving trees on site (if any), designing the and waste within a relatively small surface spaces to make the most use of natural lights and area, therefore reductions in consumption cooling will be key contributors in the overall effectively translates to significant financial efficiency of the buildings (and thus cost savings). savings. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 62 81 SUSTAINABILITY IN HOTELS Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good 2) Construction: Construction is also very important Case study as many environmental impacts would happen during this phase. There are many aspects that can A unique potential to educate be looked into to minimize impacts; from training of the construction team to avoid environmentally Hotels have a unique opportunity to act not only destructive practices, setting specific guidelines and as leisure environments but also as educational putting additional monitoring measures. Very centres. The reason for this simply relies in important is also looking into the raw materials numbers; indeed considering the number of used for the built structures as hotels can make use people who transit through hotels around the of a significant amount of recycled items without world at any given time from very different affecting the quality of the structures and comfort. backgrounds and origins the potential to educate Cost can also be reduced through such practices. is enormous. If only a small fraction of transiting hotel guests would retain something from their 3) Retrofitting: The next logical phase is to retrofit stay through educational programs this would the newly built facilities with technologies and already be a significant achievement. appliances which are energy and water efficient. If well planned actually most of a hotel efficiency Providing information passively is a specific should be by design (passive efficiency) however challenge to this industry sector. Indeed, as this can be further improved through technological people pay to stay in hotels they may not be inputs. Areas of focus are light fixtures, chiller interested to be bombarded with information systems, pumps, water heaters which all can be they did not ask for. The information can however customized for greater efficiency. If the conditions be displayed and provided in a non-intrusive way are suitable, renewable energies should be looked which always gives the guests the option to either into as well. learn from it or ignore it. This mind-set is very important when setting educational programs for 4) Setting the management: Moving from the hotels. Examples would include the use of in hardware elements equally important is to look at house TV channels, booklets or display boards how the hotel will be managed. A hotel could be throughout the facilities. built in the most sustainable way but if it is not managed with a similar mind-set it is wasting the Hotels can educate on a range of subjects efforts. Management is crucially important and the preferably on issues which are in line with their sustainability agenda should be an integral part of surrounding and business model. For instance an the business model affecting the core decision eco-hotel could choose to educate on framework rather than just be a departmental environmental sustainability whereas a city hotel affair. Building a culture of sustainability within the could educate on the cultural heritage of its given organisation takes time and requires a bottom up location. Considering their unique transitional approach in which every employee can contribute. position, any given hotel should at least have some educational focus! 5) Outreach: last but not least is setting up outreach programs which could be in the form of a Customisation CSR agenda. While a hotel can greatly influence through its in-house activities sharing best practices While a general framework (DCRSO – achieved within but also much beyond the approachTM) acting as a “magic recipe” for a boundaries of the hotel is the next phase. Hotels sustainable hotel sounds convenient, like with can use their facilities as education grounds as well other businesses it does not work this way and as test bedding of innovative technologies and also customization is key. Indeed, while many hotels develop their own educational programs. would be quite similar in their built structure and locations (e.g. a typical city hotel), many hotels are actually in unique sites and using unique designs which require customization if looking into a sustainable approach. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 63 82 SUSTAINABILITY IN HOTELS Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Opportunities on a given site will only be available Case study to certain; for instance a site on a beach front could benefit from sea breezes as a central cooling mechanism and the design developed around this An ecosystems approach concept whereas a hotel near a lake could make use of the fresh water for cooling systems, While many hotels or in fact businesses in irrigation and consumption; geothermal energy general would claim to have sustainability could be available to some while solar or wind strategies without addressing biodiversity and would make more sense to others and so on…the ecosystem issues this is clearly not possible. Any location of the site should shape the sustainability business serious about sustainability should strategy. include biodiversity and ecosystems preservation/enhancement as a core element of The initial assessment of the site at the earliest their strategy. These two elements are complex stage possible is crucial to maximize the potential and because of this most entities would rather in terms of sustainability and being able to make just omit them from the equation; this is not the right initial choices. sustainable! Pushing the concept While certain sites are more prone to conservation programs, making use of the While the vast majority of hotels would simply ecosystem and preserving the inhabiting adopt a basic sustainability strategy focusing on biodiversity can be adopted by any hotel. A city energy-water and waste efficiency, the hotel for instance in a central urban location opportunities to go much beyond are limitless. obviously will not have much terrain or Design can be customized to the extent of greatly biodiversity to preserve within its premises, benefiting the surrounding environment and however much can be done by incorporating communities. elements in the design which will create species habitats. This may include making use of rooftop Some examples of meaningful initiatives could gardens, creating ponds or even developing include (but are not limited to): renewable systems conservation programs and partnerships beyond that produce onsite energy and redistributing the the facilities. excess to the grid; purifying rainwater and distributing the excess to the community; providing Last it is important to understand that and enhancing natural habitats to shelter a rich sustainability in hotels is not about addressing degree of biodiversity for instance through the targeted aspects such as most commonly energy preservation of trees, creating or preserving water and water but rather about a holistic approach ponds or installing extensive rooftop gardens; which can only come from the understanding of collecting the food waste from hotels restaurants the impacts and potentials unique to a specific and reusing the waste for composting/gardening or hotel. biogas production… “ “ ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 64 83 SBR CSR initiatives Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good Rooftop Terrace – A stunning view of the South China Sea, Eco Tours and below our 100m long self-maintenance rooftop garden. Green Sanctuary –This area is where our own gardening staff grow plants and herbs for use around the Resort. Sustainable Farming – Learn more about the healthy vegetables that are grown on our rooftop. Landscape Pool – A unique swimming pool that is better for both people and the environment. The eco tours have taken place since 2009. The Wormery – Learn how our earthworms turn food waste aim is to showcase and share the into organic compost fertilizer for our plants. sustainability achievements at the hotel with various stakeholders in order to inspire others to Natural Filtration Pond – Learn how our spring water will embark on the same path. This program has been undergo sand, vegetation and animal filtration. Learn the very successful and to date, more than 21,000 importance of the Tilapia fish in our food waste recycling people from university students to fortune 100 program. companies top executives have attended the tours. Al Fresco Café – Learn about how we apply the 4Rs (Respect, Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle) in our Café. Purpose We use the resort and its environmental aspects as Cost: The tour is free as it is one of our CSR initiatives a case-study for the environmentally sustainable to promote compassion for the environment and to business model. The aim is to create awareness educate our participants about various environmental of environmental issues and help to develop challenges that our world is facing right now. There is a more compassion for the environment. small fee to enter Sentosa Island but entrance is free if you walk in through the boardwalk. Duration 1.5 to 2+ hours, followed by 15 minutes for Q&A. Events sponsorships Who? SBR regularly financially supports meaningful events. The Eco Journey is targeted towards company Below is a list of some of the latest events SBR has groups and students, however, we offer it to financially supported: anyone who is interested in environmental sustainability. This includes stakeholders like our • PUB’s Friends of Water Networking Session (2014) guests, partners, and suppliers. Our tours have attracted many primary, secondary and polytechnic • Singapore Packaging Agreement CEO’s :Luncheon (2014) students. We are able to tailor made the program to include more educational levels. • Singapore Compact’s International CSR Summit (2010, 2011, 2012, 2013) The Program • Sentosa’s Clean and Green Workshop 2012 The Eco Journey has 8 major “stations” or areas of interest all around the resort. • Singapore CSR Compact: “Sustainability is about Ecology, Economy, and Equity” event (2013) Introduction – Explains the purpose of the tour, the general eco-concept, and the guidelines for • St Andrew’s Autism Centre’s Teachers and Coaches Day constructing the resort. 2013 Villa Wing – This area aims to showcase blending leisure with nature, with trees even incorporated into the design of buildings. And many other causes… SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 65 84 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good SBR Eco Tours logo • SBR Eco Tours were implemented since 2009, the tours have grown in popularity and a way to share its sustainability initiatives with various stakeholders. • The tours have been well received by SBR’s guests, saying it was their highlight of their stay here. • SBR intends over the next years to continue to grow and develop this program especially in providing more customized tours for various groups (e.g. universities, corporate, young children…) • We will continue to expand this program in order for it to reach out to as many people as possible. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 66 85 SBR Eco Tours Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good This year we are very proud to announce that (as of Oct 2019) our eco tour has officially registered more than 21,000 participants which have taken the tours! Every tour that we conduct is synonymous with the success of sharing a cause which is close to our heart. We have many success stories to tell about this program and continuously receive feedbacks on people and groups which found that they have really learnt something useful. We are continuously adjusting this project to improve even further overtime.. Siloso Beach Sustainability SBRResort Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 67 86 SBR Eco Tours Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Eco Tour Statistics Total Number of Participants (Yearly) 3500 3000 2892 2901 2802 2694 2500 1939 1988 2000 1500 1394 1000 851 752 476 500 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The number of participants for the Eco Tour has progressively increased over the years, from hundreds to thousands per year. A breakdown of the number of participants on a monthly basis in the year of 2018 is seen below. Total Number of Participants per Month (2018) 500 468 450 388 400 339 350 300 276 223 238 250 205 218 200 175 170 161 150 100 40 50 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Siloso Beach Sustainability SBRResort Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 68 86 SBR Eco Tours Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Eco Tour Statistics Overall Group Type 1% 6% 1% 1% 18% 8% 22% 2018 Group Type 3% 1% 1% 3% 43% 16% 41% 35% *Overall Group Type data reflects the cumulative number of participants between 2009 to 2018 Siloso Beach SBRResort Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 69 86 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good Our reception area has recently undergone major renovations with the extension of the floor area by about double the previous space available. As part of the concept a large portion of the reception open space is now dedicated to a permanent exhibition dedicated to our eco tour and the special sustainability practices adopted by Siloso Beach Resort. The exhibit also intends to serve as a self eco tour for those who may not have time to take part in our daily guided tours. While the guided tours go into much greater details the exhibit provides an overview of what people may see around them during their stay with us. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 70 88 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures SBR Biodiversity Portal Program Staying for Good Recently, Siloso Beach Resort (SBR) has developed the Biodiversity website: biodiversity.sg, which it manages in collaboration with a range of institutions both in Singapore and internationally. The CSR project was developed during the International Year of Biodiversity in 2010 to raise awareness of the intensifying trend of the extinction of species on Earth. The portal was conceptualized and developed based on a book: “The diversity of Life on Earth: from Heritage to Extinction”. More than merely a unique educational platform on biodiversity, the website was specifically designed to serve as a hub for individuals and organisations willing to learn and act on the subject both locally and internationally. The website has 3 main parts: Learn – For those looking to increase their knowledge about biodiversity, the book “The Biodiversity of Life on Earth: from Heritage to Extinction” provides a comprehensive overview of general knowledge and issues relevant to the loss of biodiversity. This book is created to be interesting Donations (with lots of pictures!) and readable by just about anyone, no matter what your knowledge of SBR regularly donates in order to support meaningful biodiversity. causes. Discover – There are various ways that you can One of the latest was a single donation of SGD expand your interest in biodiversity, be it through photos, videos, additional informational resources, 500,000 to the National University of Singapore in order scientific work, or finding out the places where you to support the implementation of a real dinosaur can see rich biodiversity. All these resources are exhibit within the upcoming new Natural History Museum provided here for you to tap into and discover. in Singapore. Act – Given the rapid loss of biodiversity hotspots around the world and the urgency of saving species As more “conventional” donations, SBR from extinction, taking action is of utmost regularly donates to sponsor causes such importance. We help link you to the conservation projects that matter most to you. Please note that as seminars, social causes, events… none of these donations are made through our site, but rather we simply provide links to credible conservation groups and projects. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 71 89 Our Commitment to Biodiversity Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good Conservation SBR central court Many aspects of how the resort is built and overall dense vegetal coverage reflects our strong commitment to biodiversity conservation SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 72 90 SBR mascots program Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good SBR eco articles program Siloso Beach Resort has introduced a cartoon concept to promote key environmental One of SBR’s program is to actively participate and drive messages throughout its facilities. dialogues on key environmental issues. In order to do this, SBR regularly publishes articles on www.ecobusiness.com The idea is to make use of two created fictional which is Asia Pacific’s largest environmental business characters (Prof Monitor and Squirzy) in order to community. Through its contribution, SBR is an approved outreach to our guests in a fun and yet partner of eco business. effective way. List of articles recently published: While, numerous environmental educational messages are already present throughout the resort Title Content summary (e.g. Eco huts, TV channels…), we feel that the The power of human and The potential to generate power by cartoons will outreach more effectively to a wider recovered energies recovering wasted energies public including young children. Food security: asking the Thoughts on the real concerns of right questions the availability of food on the Concept: Our aim is to passively provide planet and sustainable solutions environmental information and to use our resort as Ozone: the forgotten The ozone crisis, the evolution of a showcase of sustainable best practices. We will threats recovery efforts and potential new always respect the choices of our guests to either coming threats ignore or take the time to appreciate the The value of water: a The state of water scarcity on the information that we make available. Our concept is lesson from arid areas planet and sustainable solutions to provide our guests the possibility to learn something new about the environmental issues Climate forcing and the The threat posed by feedback that we face and to reflect upon it, while having a threat of feedback mechanisms and sustainable good time at our resort. mechanisms climate remediation solutions Demystifying the concept How to build a sustainable Characters role: The principle behind the of sustainable construction construction project characters is simple: Prof Monitor plays the role of the knowledgeable source which we use to convey Renewing renewables A detailed analysis on energy accurate key messages. Squirzy (the squirrel), on supplies, trends and sustainable the other hand, is a more funny character which solutions serves the purpose of asking the right questions, Driving an innovation The biodiversity crisis and how we but sometimes in a humoristic way. revolution through could use biodiversity to our biomimetic advantage Characters choice: We chose a monitor lizard Can global sustainability be An analysis of issues posed by and a squirrel to act as our eco ambassadors achieved without demography and sustainable mascots for the simple reason that these two demographical solutions animals can been seen at our resort (mostly in the considerations café area) and they also represent our commitment Putting CSR and The role of corporates in to the preservation of wildlife and biodiversity on sustainability at the heart addressing environmental and our site. of a business social issues “ ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 73 91 SBR Environment Outreach Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good (Mass media) Biodiversity Portal SBR Eco-business.com articles “Renewing Renewables” “Biomimetic” “Food security” “The power of human energy” “The global water crisis ” “Demography” … Press releases/blogs/student reports… SBR is regularly featured in press releases as well as students and companies reports to highlight its sustainable initiatives SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 74 92 Eco Panels Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Numerous panels describing the resorts environmental initiatives are displayed throughout the hotel Eco Huts SBR Eco Huts: There are 7 huts throughout the resort that displays environmental messages. Each hut displays a piece of information. Biodiversity picture exhibit Our café biodiversity exhibit showcasing pictures of wildlife taken within the resort as well as general text on biodiversity Siloso Beach Sustainability SBRResort Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 75 93 Sustainable farming Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good • SBR ECO games: SBR has developed its own environmentally oriented board games which it makes available to guests within public areas. SBR produces its own compost using an innovative vermicomposting system. The compost is then used as an organic fertilizer to grow vegetables on our Eco huts rooftop. Organic vegetables are then supplied to the F&B department. The aim is to provide chemical and pesticide free leafy vegetables for some of our dishes. The benefits are that because they are SBR has numerous huts on its site. Each hut has been grown on-site by our own staff, we can ensure they utilised to convey key environmental messages on are free of harmful chemicals. We are also lowering our environmental footprint: specific topics. Each hut deals with a particular environmental concern. 1.Carbon footprint is lower since there is no fuel involved in transporting the product. There are 7 eco huts: 2.Water footprint is lower, since we use • The climate change hut our own spring water source that does not compete • The biodiversity hut with the public water supply. • The water hut • The sustainable development hut 3.Land footprint is lower, since it is located in • The resources hut our Resort, and using the concept of urban farming • The population hut to make the most out of limited space. • The pollution hut 4.Ecological footprint is lower, since there are no pesticides and no fertilizers contaminating the Eco TV channels environment. 5.Food waste is recycled, as we use vermicomposting (worm) to produce top-quality 100% natural fertilizer for our soil, using the food SBR has dedicated two in-house TV channels to scraps from our F&B operations. environmental awareness. Eco leisure • One station showcases an environmental documentary •Sentosa nature trails: SBR actively promotes the • Another station showcases a 1.5 hour presentation use of nature walks and trails located behind its developed by SBR which explains the main resort. While many parts of Sentosa island have environmental concerns of the century. been sacrificed for development purposes, large areas of forested terrain still remain in the central “ part of the island. Numerous nature trails have been put into place for nature lovers to enjoy. •Singapore natural parks: SBR also promotes within its premises and marketing material eco tourism activities within Singapore which are ” largely unknown to travelers. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 76 94 Our unique roof-top organic Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosures Staying for Good farming “ “ ” ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 77 95 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Actively Promoting Eco leisure activities SBR Eco Games Promoting Sentosa Island Eco Trails at the resort as well as Eco tourisms activities in Singapore in General (nature reserves…) to our guests: SBR has developed board games on the thematic on Climate Change and Biodiversity for its guests Eco trails in SBR’s backyard campaign Our website features a lot of information of our environmental initiatives as well as general environmental resources SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 78 96 Siloso Beach Resort SBR Environment Mascots Staying for Good SBR mascots helps to convey key environmental messages throughout the resort in a fun way SBR in house Eco TV Channels SBR Eco Channels are available in all our 180+ guests rooms and are a very effective way to outreach on these issues to a broad audience transiting through the hotel SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 79 97 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosure The following Disclosure Items refer to general Staying for Good stakeholder engagement conducted by the organization over the course of the reporting period Organization Program partner 102-40 List of stakeholder groups www.eco-business.com : Our stakeholders include all the various partners SBR eco articles with whom we work with on the various programs that we have. Origin exterminators. Sustainable solution to Main programs supporting organizations mosquito control SBR has developed a number of high level outreach CSR programs. Some of these programs have gained Singapore compact for a lot of support from leading organisations in their CSR. Various events respective fields. Below is a selection of latest engagements with stakeholders. Singapore Polytechnic SBR Eco Tours/internships University of Nevada Las Organization Program partner Vegas. SBR Eco Tours World Wide Fund for Nature: SBR Biodiversity Portal …And many others… Conservation international: SBR Biodiversity Portal Tropical marine Science Institute: SBR Biodiversity Portal Raffles Museum of Biodiversity Research : SBR Biodiversity Portal Census of Marine Life: SBR Biodiversity Portal The Singapore Institute of Other stakeholders comprise the following Biology : SBR Biodiversity Portal Singapore Environment Council: Stakeholders Comments SBR Biodiversity Portal Customers Guest staying at the hotel as well as passing guests Science Centre Singapore: SBR (e.g. F&B guests) Biodiversity Portal Civil Society SBR is very active in reaching out to society through its numerous CSR programs National University of Employees SBR puts a lot of attention on its employees and Singapore: SBR Biodiversity and other contract workers which play a very important role Portal workers in the success of the business United Nations Environmental Suppliers As an hotel environment, SBR works with Program: SBR biodiversity portal numerous suppliers many of which are active in the sustainability field SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 80 66 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosure 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Staying for Good SBR has created various employee committees which aim to engage discussions with the management and to advise. Such committees include: -The Sustainability Committee -The Health and Safety Committee -The Human Resource Committee -The Annual Review Committee These committees are composed of department managers and cover about 20% of the workforce 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders As an eco-hotel, SBR takes particular care to select stakeholders which share its vision of sustainability. The below diagram highlights the systematic process by which SBR chooses its stakeholders: This selection is targeted at different levels with varying stringency: Stakeholders Comments Hotel Guest SBR primary target is to attract eco conscious travellers. In order to achieve this, SBR primarily advertises its services in eco travel platforms. However, SBR remains open to accept any type of guests to its facilities. Suppliers/service SBR takes great care in assessing every purchased product to be sustainable. In providers order to do this, particular care is taken to assess every purchased item and to identify potential alternatives which are less impactful on the environment. Program partners As most of SBR programs are into sustainability, SBR is very selective on organisations with whom it partners SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 81 67 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosure Staying for Good SBR has various approaches to engage with stakeholders: Community panels Surveys SBR sits on a number of community /discussion panels , of SBR is regularly approached by stakeholders who which some include: wish to undertake surveys. In recent years many •Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources. of these surveys have been targeted at third parties Corporate and education institutions engagement gaining a better understanding of SBR sustainability initiatives. •Sentosa Island partners discussion group Focus groups Written communications SBR is open to collaboration and partnership with all stakeholder groups. SBR engages with various stakeholders through written communications means. In the past years, SBR has gained strong stakeholder partnerships with groups as diverse as: •Reports on environmental initiatives •Sustainability and CSR programs •Government Organisation (e.g. Ministry of the •Articles/news Environment and Water Resources, National •Marketing material Environment Agency, National Parks Board, Public •Audiovisual materials Utilities Board, Ministry of National •Eco tours Development…), •NGO’s (e.g. Singapore Environment Council, World and many more… Wide Fund for Nature, Conservation International, Singapore Compact for CSR…) •Private Sector: SBR is regularly engaging with Frequency of engagement various private sector entities, from suppliers to manufacturers or service providers Stakeholder group Frequency •Public Sector: SBR engages with many public sector organizations such as universities, schools, Hotel Guests Constantly community services… Government Frequently. Mostly organizations through attendance of events and events sponsorship Private sector Constantly through our supply chain and various Our 3 focus groups: programs (e.g. eco tours) NGO’s Frequently. Mostly through our CSR programs (e.g. biodiversity portal) and events sponsorships SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 82 68 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosure On site engagement Staying for Good SBR has a range of programs aiming to engage stakeholders on its site: Stakeholder engagement Description Environmental Channels Two channels in the Resort are dedicated to providing environmental information, and are available in all guest rooms and in common areas. Eco-Huts Various huts (7 in total) around the resort contain environmental messages. It is a passive learning concept, where information is made available in a very relaxing environment. SBR Mascots In an effort to make their environmental messages more fun and appealing to kids, SBR has created two mascots. Self-Guided Eco Journey For those guests who wish to know more about the Resort, there are selfguided Eco Journey panels placed throughout the resort. These panels provide key facts and figures about the hotel environmental achievements which are elaborated in much more depth in the guided eco tour Eco Corner Located just outside SBR’s reception, it is a starting point for guests to learn about the environmental activities of the Resort. Most importantly, the area hosts a large map of the resort, pointing out the environmental messages and highlights. Guest Conservation Messages Messages to guests about conservation of resources are present at SBR’s Reception, and in the rooms which have “10 tips to have a greener stay” Café Biodiversity Exhibit SBR’s Café features large pictures of biodiversity taken around the Resort. On the side of each picture information about the species, and a message about nature conservation are present. Real Dinosaur Bones Display In collaboration with NUS, SBR is displaying real diplodocus vertebrae bones. Eco Leisure A Climate change themed board game is available for guests to play. Through playing the game, they are made aware of some of the most important consequences of climate change. and many more… “ ’ ’ “ ” ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 83 69 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosure Staying for Good The below graphic showcases compiled monthly customer satisfaction feedbacks over a year period. SBR conducts monthly survey of customer satisfaction. Different means are used to do this which include: -In room feedback forms -Random surveys -Website surveys Percentage of Feedback from Positive Guest Experience 2014* 100.00% 90.00% 80.00% 70.00% 60.00% 50.00% 40.00% 30.00% 20.00% 10.00% 0.00% Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Months/ Years *We are no longer including tabulated customer feedback data in our sustainability report. We provide the previous data from 2014 for illustrative purposes. SBR is currently in the process of a major facilities renovations which include a total refurnishing and design change for all our rooftop suites and facility rooms in a first phase. In a second phase our standard and deluxe rooms will also be upgraded. This major upgrade should significantly contribute towards customer satisfaction improvement in addition to a range of other measures which are also currently being implemented. A happy customer also makes us happy SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 84 84 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosure Our guests: misunderstanding of the concept to Staying for Good preserve much wildlife on site including monitor lizards and insects. “ SBR response: As an Eco Hotel, SBR has a strong commitment to preserve biodiversity on site. As such it made significant efforts to minimize the impacts through the built environment by preserving the initial terrain, trees and plants. It also takes great care in pest control and cleaning products to use less impactful products. As a result, one would expect to find more species at SBR than in a conventional hotel where these could be considered as pest. SBR is trying hard to communicate this message to its guests that ” biodiversity preservation is important and a primary goal of SBR in order to blend leisure and nature together and provide a memorable staying experience for nature lovers. Our guests: misunderstandings on the concept not Our guests: misunderstanding on open door concept to provide amenities in the rooms (tooth brush, throughout the resort (non air conditioned public spaces). shampoo bottles...). It has come to our attention that there has been a few misunderstandings on SBR response: Indeed, at SBR only 28% of the terrain is the fact that SBR does not provide amenities kit in covered area. The rest has been kept open space as much the rooms. The misunderstanding is on the fact as possible. One of the main reason for this was to preserve that SBR is trying to reduce on cost by doing so. the existing trees on site (more than 200 initial trees have been preserved). The other reason is for energy efficiency. SBR response: SBR has been very clear that the By having open public spaces, which are either using natural reason for not systematically providing amenities in cooling (wind) or ventilators, SBR is able to significantly the guests rooms has nothing to do with cost saving reduce its energy consumption. SBR believes that the but is purely an environmental initiative to reduce excessive use of air conditioning in public spaces is not wastage within the resort and to promote good necessary to achieve a desired level of comfort. practices to our guests. We wish to highlight that any guest can request for such services and that Our guests: misunderstanding on the need to apply amenities are indeed available on request by the mosquito control treatment on site. guest should they need it. SBR response: There has been some complains that SBR We believe that too often amenities provided in was using fogging methods to treat its mosquitoes. Some hotels throughout the world result in tremendous guest found it to be disturbing while they are enjoying the wastage and resource usage. Serious studies also outdoor environment and that as an eco hotel SBR should highlight that many guests would not make any use not use chemicals. of such amenities and usually bring their own products with them (e.g. tooth brushes, As a resort which is located in an environment with very shampoos…). high vegetal coverage, SBR has no choice but to apply mosquito control procedures. This is actually not only SBR’s choice but also a government regulation in Singapore as part of the fight against dengue fever potential cases. SBR has resumed to provide However SBR has taken feedbacks into account and since over a year is trying a new pest control technique that amenities in all the guest makes use of alternative treatments using a bacterial based rooms. solution around the perimeter of the resort. This process is much less impactful on wildlife which is very important to SBR. SBR would like to highlight that it is very mindful of guests comfort and wildlife welfare but it is also concerned about assuring a safe environment for its guests and staff. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 85 70 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosure 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Staying for Good financial statements Singapore Registered Company Name: Company structural diagram: Siloso Beach Resort Pte. Ltd. Siloso Beach Resort is a family owned hotel. Its only site and operations are on Sentosa island. SBR does not have any other operating companies, subsidiaries or joint ventures. SBR has a unique yet simple corporate structure formed of a general management core and dependant departments. Main Divisions Description Front office Takes care of first contact with guests (registration, check out…) and general inquiries Housekeeping Daily rooms and facilities cleaning Maintenance Electrical/mechanical maintenance F&B Food and beverages services Security Resort security and observation Reservations Handling of all reservation matters Sustainability Environment/society/financial sustainability Accounts Handling all accounting matters Human Handling all employees related Resources matters Quality services Quality of services monitoring and Sustainability As this diagram highlights, the actions Gardening All gardening matters (gardening is an Committee plays a crucial role at SBR as important department at SBR it serves as a filter to most decisions taken regarding considering the extent of vegetal the company’s operations. The presence of this coverage) structure ensures that sustainability is not just a The corporate structure at SBR is an integral part of practice but rather unique because: the business structure. •It is a family owned and managed business; •Corporate sustainability is an integral part of the “ overall management “ ” ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 86 62 Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosure Staying for Good REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries This report is written using the GRI Standards Materiality: This report covers all indicators highlighted in GRI standards guidelines. SBR wishes through this report to be fully transparent in reporting the information which SBR is willing to publicly share in the hope that it may inspire other organisations in the hospitality field or others. Focus area: As an eco-resort, the environment topic is important to us and therefore we have chosen to give it a particular attention. The Story of SBR is unique especially with regards to the initiatives which have been taken to preserve the environment on site and to spread awareness on environmental issues. However, as we do adopt an integrated sustainable business concept, we also take into consideration economic and social aspects, which are also reported. Stakeholders: This report is targeted at all our stakeholders. A list of stakeholders is given in 102-40 We define the content to include in the sustainability report on two basis: 1) The guidelines provided by the GRI Standards which acts as a backbone to structuring the report. While certain elements are compulsory, others are left open and it is up to the sustainability committee to decide weather to include option reporting indicators depending on our needs, objectives and status of information currently available for these indicators. 2) This report is not just a sustainability report following established guidelines but importantly a story of SBR from its inception to present retracing the story of this unique business on its journey towards sustainability. Because of this, there are many elements of the report which go much beyond the needs of the reporting framework. GRI Standards guidelines Sustainability committee to draft a table of Status of data collection content Relevant Companies objectives 102-47 List all the material topics The materiality chart (refer to page 45) identifies areas of priorities which help shape the reporting content and the specific material Aspects. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 87 63 Siloso Beach Resort Our unique “jungle feel” General Disclosure Staying for Good One of our villa wing paths Many areas of our resort offer a natural immersive environment SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 88 64 Report Parameters Siloso Beach Resort General Disclosure REPORT PROFILE Staying for Good 102-48 Restatements of information This is SBR’s eighth sustainability report. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the There are no re-statements. report contact regarding this report: 102-49 Changes in reporting Please email enquiries to Siloso Beach Resort’s CSR This is the eighth sustainability report. In 2015, department: we changed from GRI 3.1 to GRI 4.0. In 2018, csr@silosobeachresort.com we changed from GRI 4.0 to GRI Standards 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with 102-50 Reporting period the GRI Standards This report covers information for the period of This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI 2018 (1 Jan 2018 to 31 Dec 2018) standards: Core Option However, many of the data collected covers a 102-55 GRI content index longer time period, often since the very conception of the hotel more than 10 years ago. It is important Please refer to Annex: GRI Content Index on page 162 166 in order to capture the level of achievements at SBR that the report portrays not only some data for the last two years but also puts this into context of the 102-56 External assurance greater picture since the construction days. Siloso Beach Resort currently does not engage any third One can only appreciate the efforts and party to provide assurance for the information contained in achievements in the pursuit of sustainability when our Sustainability Report. gaining an understanding of the history of this sustainability journey at SBR. The report is reviewed internally by our Sustainability Community, in order to ensure accuracy of information and It is a journey that SBR has embarked on, not overall report quality. punctual achievements. SBR prefers the term of journey as becoming a more sustainable company is something that requires constant efforts and adjustments and it is a long term process. “ 102-51 Date of most recent previous report This sustainability report is SBR’s eighth, previous report was published during 3 Nov 2018. 102-52 Reporting cycle ” SBR sustainability reports will be re-edited to include up to date information annually. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 89 71 Case study : Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good SBR’s Pendulum of SustainabilityTM 1 “ 2 “ ” 4 3 “ “ ” 5 “ ” 6 “ ” 7 “ ” ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 90 Case study : Siloso Beach Resort The “War Room”: our arguments Staying for Good 2 for sustainability “ ’ 1 “ ’ ’ ’ ” ” 3 “ ” “ 4 5 ” “ 7 ” “ “ 6 ” 8 “ ’ ” 9 “ ’ ” ’ ” “ 10 ” In summary: Be sustainable…or else..!!! Siloso Beach Sustainability SBRResort Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 91 28 Siloso Beach Resort Management Approach Staying for Good Management Approach As a small-medium sized business, we do not have the internal capacity to have a differentiated management approach for every material topic. The approach we have found effective is to manage according to the main 3 areas; economic, environmental, and social. We further define our approach according to if the impacts are happening internally (with our own company and internal stakeholders) our externally (in the community/society, or according to major environmental concerns). 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Internal Management Topics Material Topic Economic Internal Environmental Internal Social – Internal Materiality of Internal Economic topics have Internal Environmental topics Internal Social topics have Topic a significant economic impact have a very significant a very significant social on our resort management environmental impact for impact for our employees and employees. biodiversity on our premises. and guests, especially considering many of our They also are an important They are an important factor employees are persons factor for decisions made by in decisions made by the with disabilities. the management due to management, employees, and business continuity. guests , due to our They are an important commitment to being an ecofactor in decisions made by Due to our small size, we do resort. the management, not consider economic employees, and guests , impacts on external due to our commitment to stakeholder to be material. being a responsible business. Boundary of Inside our company Inside our premises Inside our company Impact Directly under our control Directly under our control Directly under our control Reporting Limited ability to conduct Limited ability to conduct limitations assessment of the impact on assessment of the impact biodiversity on our staff. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 92 92 Siloso Beach Resort 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and Staying for Good Management Approach its Boundary External Material Topics Material Topic Environmental External Social External Materiality of Topic External Environmental topics can External Social topics have a significant to potentially have a significant to minor minor social impact for the community. impact on environmental concerns such as pollution, climate change, and They are an important factor in decisions resource consumption. made by the management, due to our commitment to being a responsible They are an important factor in decisions business. made by the management, employees, and guests , due to our commitment to being an eco-resort. Boundary of Impact Outside environment Outside society Partially under our control Partially under our control Reporting limitations Limited ability to conduct assessment of Limited ability to conduct assessment of the impact on larger environmental the impact on larger societal concerns. concerns. 103-2 The management approach and its components Internal Material Topics Material Topic Economic Internal Environmental Internal Social – Internal How is topic Management includes Management includes applying Management includes Managed applying best business best practices for preserving the applying best practices for and accounting natural environment. External areas such as labor and practices. External consultants and auditors are human rights. External consultants and engaged where necessary. training is provided where auditors are engaged necessary to build internal where necessary. Policies and practices were capacity. implemented from the very Employee surveys are also beginning from the conducted to identify management, in order to ensure impacts. Thereafter policies that the natural environment and practices are was preserved. The implemented through our HR Sustainability Committee department, and ensures that such practices are Sustainability Committee, followed and monitored for and monitored for continual continual improvement. improvement. Purpose of Avoid negative impacts mitigate negative impacts Avoid negative impacts / Management / Enhance positive Enhance positive impacts Approach impacts Relevant Refer to targets Environmental Policy HR Policies (confidential) Components section on (available upon request) Policy on employment of (policies, targets, Responsibility of Refer to targets PWD (available upon responsibility, Management and Responsibility of request) resources, etc.) Accounts Management , Sustainability Responsibility of department Committee, and individual Management, HR departments department and Sustainability Committee SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 93 93 Siloso Beach Resort 103-2 The management approach and Staying for Good Management Approach its components External Material Topics Material Topic Environmental External Social External How is topic Managed Management includes identifying Management decisions are made on external impacts on environment, where make social through measurement of resource investment/contribution, based on consumption and waste generation. which areas will have the most impact and are most relevant to the company Thereafter policies and practices are and its stakeholders. Input from the implemented through our Sustainability Committee is sought Sustainability Committee , and when necessary. monitored for continual improvement. Purpose of Management mitigate negative impacts Enhance positive impacts Approach Relevant Components Environmental Policy (available Responsibility of Management and (policies, targets, upon request) Sustainability Committee responsibility, resources, Refer to targets etc.) Responsibility of Sustainability Committee, and individual departments 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Internal Material Topics Material Topic Economic Internal Environmental Internal Social – Internal Mechanism for Mandatory audit of accounts Internal review by Employee feedback and evaluating Sustainability Committee, employee survey effectiveness based on adherence to policies Results of Management approach is Management approach is Management approach evaluation effective effective is effective Adjustments to No adjustments required for No adjustments required for No adjustments required management reporting period reporting period for reporting period approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach External Material Topics Material Topic Environmental External Social External Mechanism for evaluating Internal review by Sustainability No review mechanism in place effectiveness Committee, based on targets achieved and sustainability metrics Results of evaluation Management approach is effective N/A Adjustments to No adjustments required for reporting Recommended to implement management approach period mechanism for evaluating management approach SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 94 94 Economic Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Economic Performance ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Total business revenue for FY 2018: S$11,335,645 Distribution of Revenue 2018 (Singapore Dollars) $130,000.00 , 1% $2,203,456.00 , $2,313,471.00 , 20% 20% Salary (including bonus and CPF contribution) Costs and operating expenses Profit (before provision of income tax) Estimated Environment and Social Invesments (CSR activities) $6,688,718.00 , 59% “ “ SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 95 95 201-2 Financial implications and other risks Siloso Beach Resort and opportunities due to climate change. Staying for Good Economic Performance SBR takes climate change issues seriously. SBR acknowledges the fact that climate change is real and that progressive changes as a result will be felt 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other throughout the century. retirement plans Short term: While SBR does not see any significant Our coverage includes the below: financial impacts in the short term, many aspects of how it operates and plans its business in the medium to long term take climate risk into CPF Contribution consideration. Transportation Medical and Dental reimbursement Medium and long term: SBR foresees that financial risks in the medium to Work/Life Balance Programs long term may include: Staff Meals • Increased adaptive costs: e.g. coastal erosion from rising sea levels, stronger and more frequent 201-4 Financial assistance received from government rainfall events and tropical storms which could cause structural damages to our buildings and SBR has not received any financial assistance from the associated problems such as floods, water Singapore government so far nor is the government present infiltration into buildings… in the shareholding structure. The construction of the hotel was privately funded.  As ambient temperature will increase, SBR will have to find new solutions to deal with However, SBR has occasionally received relatively minor mosquito control. These new solutions government grants or tax credits towards certain purchases tend to be more expensive, which are or projects which are supported by the government in additional costs to the company. achieving specific purposes (for example, toward increasing productivity, staff welfare, or energy efficiency).  As the impacts of climate change increases, the world economy will be adversely MARKET PRESENCE affected. This will affect leisure travels and therefore SBR’s business. 202-1 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at  As a beach front business, sea level rise will significant locations of operation. become a major issue for SBR in the long term. Our wages are in line with standard minimum entry level wage in the hotel industry in Singapore.  The potential of future environmental regulations and taxes serve to potentially We have recently increased our minimum wages to make increase operating cost. them more competitive. This process is also part of our strategy to attract and retain local talents. Opportunities  With climate change also comes the opportunity to provide sustainable hospitality services.  Having been environmentally conscious from the very start, climate change also could add a competitive advantage to the resort as other businesses work to catch up and improve their environmental credentials. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 96 96 Procedure for local hiring Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Economic Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community SBR is an equal opportunity employer. It has a clear procedure in place when it comes to foreign verses hiring Singaporeans. Priority is always given to Singaporeans in situation of equal skills and experience. Proportion of senior management hired from the local community: At SBR, senior management is 100% Singaporean and comprises of family members (we define senior management as “ those above the normal department manager positions). Breakdown of Department Managers 2018 Total: 7 Singaporeans (including Permanent Residents): 5 Foreigners: 2 ” Singaporean Foreigner SBR has a balance between Singaporeans and foreigners in its management SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 97 97 Environment Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environmental MATERIALS Environment Since its conception, SBR has always made use of a 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume very significant amount of reused Various materials have been used in the construction of the resort and its daily operations. Two of the most important and recycled materials within its facilities. materials are wood and paper inputs. The concept has overtime been implemented into operational standards and management guidelines. Paper Usage by Weight 2014 The below highlights some of the elements: Normal Paper recycled paper •Many of the stairways at SBR have made use of 100 unwanted old train tracts wood from Australia. SBR 90 80 has a permanent wood workshop and 70 all the wood coming into SBR is from reused or 60 recycled sources. KG 50 40 •Extensive surfaces of indoor corridor floorings are 30 made from recycled tires (rubber mats) 20 10 • 100% Reused children playground furniture 0 In addition to active implementation of recycled Jan-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 and reused elements, SBR is active at promoting and practicing the 3 R’s (Reduce, reuse, recycled). In fact, SBR has come up with its own version by adding another R. Indeed, SBR’s policy is first to Total weight of paper used for 2012 : 1070.0 KG respect the surrounding environment (especially Total weight of paper used for 2013 : 923.0 KG natural features and its inhabiting biodiversity), and Total weight of paper used for 2014 : 878.8 KG then reduce, reuse and recycle. Total weight of paper used for 2017 : 6 61 KG Efforts to reduce are very present throughout the resort with practices implemented in areas such as F&B and housekeeping. Total volume of wood used from 2005-2014 (by cubic meters) “ 120, 23% Primary wood Reused wood ” 404, 77% Total volume of wood used from 2006 to 2013*: 524 cubic meters *The amount of wood used in 2012 and 2013 was negligible, as such the data has not changed since the last reporting period. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 98 98 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environment Estimated Plastic Bottle Usage (Kg) 2011 558 397.8 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Plastic Recycled Plastic not recycled 301-2 Recycled input materials used • Maximize use of reused wood Usage of input materials like paper and • For primary wood, incorporate sustainability wood are a necessity to running our (FSC certified) and durability (cheap wood business, which unfortunately can will need to be replaced frequently) contribute to deforestation, climate • Use recycled paper for selected printing change, and loss of biodiversity. For this • When normal paper is used, ensure it is not reason we apply the following wasted and always used on both sides and guidelines: then recycled. Material Comment Weight/Volume % of Total Wood At SBR some of the outdoor staircases (numerous 120 cubic 23% considering the hill type of terrain) are from reused meters source from dismantled train rails from Australia. SBR has its own wood workshop and full time carpenters on site which make use of waste wood items collected from demolition sites to make and repair items within the facilities. Outdoor children The children playground has been collected from an Not available 100% playground unwanted source (second hand) Corridor rubber All SBR main corridors carpets have been changed Not available 100% mats to recycled rubber mats Paper We use recycled paper for selected areas, such as 41.6 kg 1.5% printing of brochures, name cards, feedback forms (2010/11/12) for Eco Tours, various posters, and reports. We plan to increase our percentage of recycled paper 10.4 kg 1% usage in the following years. (2012 alone) 15.6 kg 1.69% (2013 alone) We actually practice our 4R’s: we believe that we should first Respect nature then Reduce, Reuse and lastly, Recycle. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 99 99 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environment Recyclables Sculptures The small garden outside our alfresco café compliments our eco-themed resort. The garden generally improves the aesthetics and is pleasing to the eye. The garden maximizes the use of empty space and recyclables. SBR has always been committed to minimizing waste and we have decided to showcase the use of recycled materials in this garden. Plastic bottles are used instead of flower pots, whereas scrap metal and wood are used to make the structure to support the bottles. SBR Sustainability Report 2019 100 Combining a sustainably designed and Siloso Beach Resort maintained environment with messages is Staying for Good Environment our key formula Messages are present throughout the resort. Our newly introduced mascot concept helps get key messages to our guests including on various aspects of eco-friendliness. Our mascots. In this scene, our two characters explain the concept of water conservation. The egg has a “Biodiversity” theme. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 101101 ENERGY Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good 302-1 Energy consumption within the Environment organization Total electricity usage from Total electricity usage for 2018 2009 to 2018 (kW/h) (kW/h) 2500000 250,000.00 2000000 200,000.00 1500000 150,000.00 1000000 100,000.00 500000 50,000.00 0 0.00 Jan-18 Feb-18 Mar-18 Apr-18 May-18 Jun-18 Jul-18 Aug-18 Sep-18 Oct-18 Nov-18 Dec-18 At SBR, energy management is well taken care of. The uniqueness of our practices is however towards good initial passive design of the structures at the resort. Indeed, the hotel was designed from the very beginning to be energy efficient. SBR’s electricity consumption is below average for a hotel of this size. The most surprizing aspects of the above graphic is that energy consumption has remained relatively stable over the past few years. This is not due to a lack of actions to reduce our energy consumption, but rather due to the fact that the hotel was designed from the beginning to be energy efficient (mostly through good structural design and energy efficient appliances). Phase 2: Retrofitting At SBR Energy management has been Once the hotel was built, numerous progressive energy efficient technologies and appliances have been and continue to be implemented Phase 1: Good structural design The hotel’s unique architecture Phase 3: Management allows passive and significant energy Numerous management guidelines were put efficiency into place Phase 4: Sharing We are now at the stage of sharing what has been done in order to influence others to adopt energy efficient practices especially on aspects of passive design SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 102101 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Siloso Beach Resort source Staying for Good Environment At SBR the energy source is currently from grid electricity. In Singapore the vast majority of grid electricity is produced through the combustion of natural gas. We also have on site emergency energy generators which operate on diesel. However, these generators are only used in case of main energy supply cut off. Energy used in 2018 (GJ) 10000 8585.61 9000 8416 Almost all of the 8000 energy used at SBR 7000 6000 is from grid Energy (GJ) 5000 Natural Gas (GJ) electricity which in 4000 Total Singapore is almost 3000 entirely from the 2000 1000 combustion of 169.61 0 natural gas Energy (GJ) Natural Gas (GJ) Total Comparison of energy to gas usage (kw/h) 2% Energy (kw/h) Gas (kw/h) 98% Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Indirect Energy consumption for 2018 Gigajoules Source Indirect Energy Purchased 8416 Electricity (non-renewable) Estimated* Primary Energy Consumed in 8868 Natural Gas production of Indirect Energy *As no data is available regarding primary energy consumed to produce indirect energy, we have estimated the amount of primary energy used based on the Singapore data for 2009 provided to the International Energy Agency: IEA-Statistics-Singapore *As the Resort does not produces energy to sell hence the energy sold is inapplicable. SBR Sustainability Report 2019 103102 At night our resort offers a Siloso Beach Resort unique atmosphere Staying for Good Environment Usage of lights is carefully planned to procure both a comfortable resort feel and also to limit the usage of energy SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 104104 Energy efficiency through good Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good design Environment SBR central court, open corridors Our open concept combined with high vegetal coverage and other features such as rooftop gardens already account for very high energy efficiency at SBR SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 105103 Some of our Cleantech Siloso Beach Resort systems Staying for Good Swimming pool Ionization treatment systems Swimming pool sand filtration Our pool does not use conventional chlorine treatment but various filtration and purification steps 4th Generation Heat Exchange Chiller System recovered heat waste is used for the hot water supply and hot water spa pool SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 106106 Some of our Cleantech Siloso Beach Resort systems Staying for Good Photovoltaic at SBR Our solar PV system Solar panel The solar panels will be used for research and education. While we do not really believe in solar PV technology as an efficient solution here in Singapore mostly due to weather condition (high cloud coverage) and high maintenance (high dust content in the air despite an incline setting to facilitate rain wash the panels would still get dusty over time losing significant efficiency). On the other hand, by having our own panel we will be able to collect valuable data that will act as a showcase of how much energy can be generated in this particular location through PV. Siloso Beach SBRResort Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 107107 SBR is home to one of the longest Siloso Beach Resort self maintained roof top gardens in Staying for Good Singapore SBR is home to one of the longest self maintained rooftop gardens in Singapore. This helps to significantly increase vegetal coverage and energy efficiency Section of green roof seen from central rooftop SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 108108 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good SBR case study : Roof Top Garden Technology There are numerous roof top technologies now available (some more proven than others). The advantage of self-sustained roof top gardens is that they provide a significant advantage for naturally cooling the space below. Furthermore, they increase the vegetation coverage and provide habitats for species. It is important to consider implementing a rooftop garden from the beginning as they will add significantly more weight on the structure which needs to be accounted for in the construction design. A simple yet effective methodology consist of constructing containers on the roof. The containers bottom should have a slight angle and be connected to a drain so that water does not accumulate. The first layer comprises an egg shell substrate (to retain humidity); on top a layer of sand (about 30cm) so that roots will not penetrate the structure; on top soil is finally added. Siloso Beach SBRResortSustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 109109 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Open air pathways Open air corridors SBR open air structural concept plays a significant role in passively reducing the energy use around the resort (natural air flow + natural lighting). At SBR more than 70% of the terrain has remained open space And much more… Open air cafe Siloso Beach Sustainability SBRResort Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 110110 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environment Energy saving through outreach Hot water pool •Management Energy Saving Guidelines for staff: SBR has specific staff guidelines for energy management. The guidelines highlights best practices and limitations that SBR staff must respect and that contribute in reducing our energy usage. These guidelines include aspects such as: Switching lights and appliances off when not in use. •Messages to initiate guests to save energy: we try to involve Our approach at SBR is that our guests as much as possible. As an eco resort, we have numerous environment education messages throughout the resort and 2 in-house TV Added in Jan 2015, our hot water pool recycles heat channels dedicated to environmental awareness. waste from the 4th generation chiller system. At One showcases a documentary on current the holding tank, the spring water is heated up by hot water environmental problems, while another is a slide pipes coming from the chiller plant. As the water returning show made by SBR which educates our guests on to the chiller has lost much of its heat, this also means that reducing these impacts (water management, the usage of cooling towers is reduced thereby helping us climate change, biodiversity loss etc.). We hope that to save water. The hot water pool was created in order to they will spread the message in their home country. create efficient use of the increased heat waste recovery in a closed loop system, along as for our Energy Saving through technology guests’ enjoyment. The heated spring water is kept warm at the spa pool. However, as more heat waste is created on •LED & CFL lights: throughout the resort, hot days, the warmer the weather, the warmer the pool. •Energy efficient pumps, •Extensive usage of fans instead of air conditioning, Energy Saving through initial design •Balanced wave technology, (a technology that reshapes the incoming electrical current, making it Open concept: All the room corridors have an open concept more stable and significantly reducing energy loss which serves the purpose of maximizing natural air flow and through heating). natural lighting therefore significantly reducing energy •Latest 4th generation heat exchange chiller system: consumption for cooling or lighting purposes. At SBR As part of our energy saving initiatives, we have numerous public spaces adopt an open air concept such as upgraded our 3rd generation to the 4th our Al Fresco Cafe. It was in fact one of the original generation heat exchanger in 2014. It works guidelines that the built area would be kept to a minimal on the same principle as our 3rd generation chiller (built-up environment is only 28%). but the only difference is that it has better heat recovery. The result is that we have lower energy All the buildings are on stilts: It was decided that all the consumption as compared to the top 50th buildings were to be constructed on stilts (main buildings as percentile of hotels in Singapore. As more heat well as the villas). Having the structures on stilts allows air waste is being recovered, we decided to construct a flow to circulate from below the buildings as well as hot water pool to increase the utilise these heat between buildings which provides a natural cooling effect waste. The upgraded chiller system and the new (only slight cooling is achieved through this mean). hot water pool works together to help us to conserve energy in our resort. Roof top garden: SBR is home to one of the longest rooftop gardens in Singapore which also plays a key role in passive energy efficiency. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 111111 Efficiency through good Siloso Beach Resort technology Staying for Good Environment Hot water pool The cooling towers are used less frequently as the heat waste from the chiller system has already been extracted by the heat exchanger and channelled into the hot water supply.. Water storage tanks SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 112112 Efficiency through good Siloso Beach Resort technology Staying for Good Environment Hot water pool “ ” ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 113113 Energy saved due to conservation and Siloso Beach Resort efficiency improvements. Staying for Good Environment Technology Energy saved 4th generation 30% more savings While it is difficult to evaluate with modular heat than conventional exchange chiller chillers precision, SBR is confident in saying that system through the combined efforts of the Balanced wave 10% savings on energy efficient technologies, good systems installed appliances energy passive design and good Efficient lighting 15% compared to management practices, SBR facilities are throughout incandescent lighting at least 30-40% more energy Passive construction 30-40% or more than design conventional buildings efficient than a conventional building would be. Management 5-10% of energy from guidelines lighting and appliances What about all the trees? Energy efficient 15% compared to water heater conventional heater Furthermore, the decision by the management to preserve a vegetal coverage and trees on site contributes to an additional very significant energy saving which we have yet to gain clarifications on. Indeed, trees provide shading, retain humidity and therefore significantly contribute in reducing the building heat load. Some benefits of preserving trees (more than 200 preserved at SBR) Energy gains (through shading) Preserving biodiversity Stabilizing the terrains (trees provide habitats for a great (especially true on a hill side) variety of species) Preserving the water table Fresh air! (tree purify the air and release (trees act as a natural pump oxygen ) keeping the water table close to the surface) SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 114114 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good SBR Spring Water Swimming Pool One of the unique features at SBR is the natural spring that lies below our resort. This natural source of water which would otherwise naturally flow out to sea is used for various purposes including gardening and to provide water for our landscape swimming pool. SBR Sustainability Report 2019 115115 Case study : Our Swimming pool Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good treatment process At SBR, our swimming pool is truly unique in many ways. Through the way it was built following the natural terrain, to the way it is treated going away from conventional chemical uses to the source of the water which is from an underground reservoir The below diagram provides a very schematic overview of the process 2. Waterfall oxygenation process 3. Salt treatment We regularly add salt to treat the pool. This ionization process is better than using chlorine 1. Bio-filtration Treatment ponds These 80m+ long ponds have various plants and fishes which serve as bio-indicators of the quality of the pool There are two sections of the pond: 1)Only plants 4. Pool 2) Plant + fishes The pond also serves the purpose of rebalancing the pH levels to neutral Our swimming pool uses an integrated natural treatment process 5. Sand filtration 6. Spring Water Source. At the source, the water is cleaned through a decantation process to get rid of larger particles Siloso Beach SBRResort Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 116116 •Roof top gardens: To date (2016) SBR still has one Siloso Beach Resort of the longest self maintained roof top gardens in Staying for Good Environment Singapore. This extensive roof top covers the entire surface area of the main building. In addition to ecological benefits it also serves the purpose of cooling the building below therefore significantly reducing the energy requirements for cooling the below indoor spaces. WATER Water saving initiatives at SBR •Spring water usage: Below SBR lies a natural spring reservoir. SBR has made good use of this natural resource in order to minimize water usage. Spring water is mostly used for the swimming pool as well as gardening. Government regulations impose the usage of tap water for other usages such as guests rooms and F&B. •Water saving appliances: SBR has installed water efficient appliances throughout the resort including guests rooms and public areas. These include: •Water efficient taps (sensors) •Water control valves •Water efficient taps and shower heads •Waterless urinals (in all public toilets) •Water saving policies: SBR has put in place specific guidelines for its staff to minimize water consumption which are part of our environmental management guidelines. •Water awareness: SBR spreads awareness on the need to conserve water resources through numerous educational panels throughout the resort, including one of its huts (“the water hut”) which is dedicated to water issues. There is also information on this topic within SBR in-house eco “ TV channels. •Water harvesting/roof top garden: SBR’s rooftop garden is self sustaining. Plants on the rooftop do not need extra watering due to the water retention properties of the rooftop garden. ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 117117 Siloso Beach Resort 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Staying for Good Environment Water usage from 2009 to Monthly Water Usage for 2018 2018 (Cubic Metres) (Cubic Metres) 35000.00 3000 30000.00 2500 25000.00 2000 20000.00 1500 15000.00 1000 10000.00 500 5000.00 0 0.00 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec The above graphic represents the water consumption of SBR since January 2007. While water consumption has slightly decreased overtime, Because SBR has a natural supply of fresh water that it has remained quite stable, after 2009. continuously comes out, its tap water consumption remains very low. SBR makes use of two distinct It is important to highlight that SBR has very special conditions when it comes to water usage. Indeed, sources of fresh water: one comes from the spring and below SBR lies a nature spring reservoir which the other is tap water from the network. Spring water is naturally flows out to sea. During the construction mostly used for the swimming pool and gardening whereas phase, this underground source was discovered and the tap water is used for guests services in rooms SBR has since made good use of the resource. (showering…). SBR has a very significant positive impact by allowing the management of Sentosa island to pump water from its spring which is used to water the surrounding areas ( for gardening and landscaping purposes). Water Withdrawal by Source 2018 “ Tap water (guests rooms, kitchen) 7008 (18%) Rainwater* (rooftop 2499 (7%) garden & swimming pool) ” Spring water* 28632.1 (75%) (swimming pool, gardening & general cleaning) *Spring water and rainwater data is estimated SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 118118 Siloso Beach Resort Most of SBR water consumption originates from an Staying for Good Environment underground spring water reservoir. The water that is taken from this source is of natural origin and if not taken would otherwise flow out to sea. As such SBR water usage from this source has no impacts on diminishing water reserves within the 303-3 Water recycled and reused spring. In addition to its very efficient water consumption practices, SBR also has initiatives in place to recycle and reuse the water. Such initiatives include: •Roof top garden: allows a significant amount of rainwater SBR’s has a very limited consumption to be collected if needed of city tap water (due to its natural spring •Swimming pool closed loop system source and water saving initiatives) •Extensive use of groundwater for gardening •Excess water from the spring goes to a reservoir which is 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by used by Sentosa management to collect and water the withdrawal of water entire island •Spring water excess: SBR water sources are: The below graphic highlights the volumes reused/recycled: “ ’ None of these sources are significantly affected by the withdrawal of water from SBR as usage is well managed and kept to a minimal. Actually, the spring water is not actively pumped from the ground but naturally flows out. As such, if SBR was not making use of it, it would just flow out to sea. Furthermore, the Spring is regularly refilled with rainwater. No sources of the water used at SBR are from protected areas/areas of biodiversity value or sources of importance to local community. ” SBR takes great efforts into managing the source in the most sustainable way Recycled Water for 2018 possible. (cubic meters) 7,008 Discharged water* Discharged Water (tapWater) (Tap water) Recycled Recycled water* Water (spring water) (Spring Water) 28432 *Spring water and rainwater data is estimated SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 119119 Siloso Beach Resort Water management Staying for Good SBR is involved in a very special and major water initiative. Indeed, it allows Sentosa water contractors to extract water from its pond to water the entire island Numerous water saving features throughout the resort And much more… SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 120120 BIODIVERSITY Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good At SBR biodiversity has a very special Environment significance. Indeed, because the location of the resort is on pristine forested terrain, 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and biodiversity is relatively high especially services on biodiversity when compared to other parts of As the site surrounding SBR is a forested terrain, SBR’s Singapore. activities do have certain impacts on biodiversity: 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, SBR significant impacts on biodiversity managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside •Noise: Despite that noise levels are kept at reasonable levels, protected areas some disturbances on biodiversity resources do occur. •Built environment: As building structures have been The location of SBR is on a forested mountain hill. developed on site, some disturbance on biodiversity have Around and behind the resort lies protected terrains which hold many trees and a relatively rich occurred during the construction phase. It is however inhabiting biodiversity. important to highlight that extraordinary measures to preserve the original terrain and minimize the impacts on SBR was constructed with minimal digging, does not biodiversity have been taken. Measures taken at SBR to own any underground area. preserve the natural terrain are unique and exemplary. The property of SBR is not listed as protected status •Gardening (e.g. cutting down branches): Occasional nor considered as protected by any organization. maintenance work in order to insure guests safety are carried regularly. These activities mostly include cutting down tree Location: branches which may cause slight disturbances to wildlife. Map of resort with surroundings. •Mosquito control (spraying of chemicals on plants) : In order to meet government standards and insure guests comfort and safety (dengue control), mosquito treatment do have to be carried on site. SBR has in the past used the traditional fumigation treatment. However, since the last few years, a new treatment using less impactful chemicals is under trial. Habitat protected or restored •Overall resort environment: Despite the built environment, a significant portion of the land has been preserved. •All trees : All grown trees on site have been preserved. •Ponds: Many ponds around the resort have been preserved in order to maintain their rich inhabiting biodiversity. Furthermore, many other man made ponds have been added We can see from the satellite image that SBR is throughout the resort. surrounded by forested terrain. While •Roof top garden: SBR’s extensive roof top gardens not only large parts of Sentosa island have been allocated for has energy efficiency attributes, but they also allow development of the built environment, only a patch additional greenery coverage including the plantation of of greenery remains in the central part of the island various species that attract insects. around the resort. SBR is conscious of this, and has taken strong measures to ensure the At this time SBR is not working with any other organizations preservation of wildlife not only on its site but to protect or restore habitat, however this may be a also insuring that its operations have very limited consideration for future CSR initiatives. We are are actively impacts on the surrounding. using the Biodiversity Potal website to promote parties that protect natural habitat. Size of land owned: 15,449.0 m2 SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 121121 Biodiversity on site Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Birds nesting on site Numerous squirrels can be spotted on site By preserving the trees and areas of forested terrain, SBR has managed to maintain a higher degree of biodiversity on its premises… 8 species of frogs have been monitored on site Numerous insects and invertebrates in our forested areas Numerous species of plants on site (mostly local species) Siloso Beach Sustainability SBRResort Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 122122 Siloso Beach Resort Alternative Environmentally Staying for Good friendly mosquito control Numerous self sustaining ponds have been implemented throughout the resort. In addition to providing habitats for a diversity of species, these ponds are also growing grounds for fish that eat mosquito larvae as well as dragonflies which effectively serve as a natural mosquito control agent. In addition SBR is using an alternative mosquito control treatment (instead of conventional fogging) using a bacteria based solution instead of chemical fogging. This treatment causes much less impact to the variety of species on site (insects, reptiles…) SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 123123 Heritage species Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Native trees In partnership with Nparks, SBR has embarked on a project to showcase the heritage species of Singapore. About 10 different species have been planted surrounding our pool area. We intend to educate our guests on the original nature Flora of Singapore. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 124124 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Live trees passing through all our villas Our unique concept of blending the natural surrounding environment with structures: Throughout the resort in order to preserve many of the existing trees, we have integrated the trees within the built structure. As such almost all of our villa rooms as well as many parts of the buildings actually have trees passing through them. Other techniques of preserving the trees are also found throughout the resort. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 125125 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Our concept of allowing trees to pass through the structure is highly present throughout our resort A few snap shots from the resort of integrations of trees within the structures. There are in fact countless examples of such practices throughout the resort. Indeed, whenever possible, trees have been preserved and integrated into the built design SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 126126 Dinosaur bones exhibit Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Display of real dinosaur bones within our reception area and information on conservation Waste wood workshop SBR wood workshop. A significant portion of the wood at SBR originates from unwanted wood from construction sites. We then reprocess the wood for maintenance, furniture… Roof top farming Roof top garden growing facility. We produce vegetables and herbs without any use of chemicals SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 127127 Case study: Dinosaur Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environment At SBR we have recently become very involved with dinosaurs in the most unusual way. At SBR we want to share Siloso Beach Resort is proud to showcase Real Dinosaur Bones on its premises. our passion for The display of these bones is a joint venture between Siloso Dinosaurs Beach Resort (SBR) and the National University of Singapore (NUS). Background: So how did SBR get into possession of real dinosaur bones??! Well it all started with the close collaboration that SBR has with the Raffles Museum of Biodiversity Research http://rmbr.nus.edu.sg/ (NUS). SBR has been in close contact with this reputable institution since SBR started the development of the Biodiversity.sg (www.biodiversity.sg ) which is one of its CSR programs. Following this SBR has been actively involved with some of the Museum activities. Recently it came to our attention that the RMBR intended to expend into a new National History Museum for Singapore. One of the main attractions the upcoming Museum was looking forward to was to have a unique display of complete and real dinosaur skeletons. In order to make this a reality the RMBR embarked on an ambitious fund raising exercise to raise enough money to purchase 3 unique and almost complete dinosaur skeletons (believed to be from the same family), a world first! SBR immediately responded to this by gifting a significant amount of money for this unique and most worthy cause. SBR was the first donor to put money on the table which sparked other donors to come on board as well. Since then, the necessary funds of 12 million have been collected from various donors (including SBR) and the dinosaurs skeletons are now under way to Singapore! In appreciation of our move in initiating this much needed funding exercise, the RMBR has accepted to collaborate with us in mounting this preliminary dinosaur exhibit which intends to inform the guests passing by the hotel and various stakeholders on the importance of dinosaurs, biodiversity preservation and to promote the upcoming National History Museum where the full skeletons will be displayed starting in 2014. “Dinosaur” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 128128 Case study: Dinosaur Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environment Opening of the Lee Kong Chian Museum We were very pleased to see the opening of the National History Museum this year. As the first donor to have come onboard nearly 4 years ago, it is very satisfying to see the full dinosaur bones getting displayed in Museum. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 129129 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environment SBR is Fully compliant with national regulations and goes above and beyond regulations for preserving trees and biodiversity. Since its construction stage, very significant Anyone coming to SBR will quickly notice the extent of the consideration has been taken to preserve the efforts which have been made to preserve the trees and biodiversity on site. Biodiversity preservation and incorporate them within the structure. education remain to date one of the main •Different innovative construction techniques were applied guidance of SBR. to incorporate the trees. •In some parts, buildings have been built around trees. During the initial development stage very special •In some parts, trees literally go through the structure. care and measures have been applied to preserve •In other parts, trees are in close proximity of buildings. as much as possible the biodiversity on site. Going beyond just preserving the trees, one other One of the strongest decisions was to preserve important initial guidance in the development of SBR was to all the trees. This was a very serious commitment preserve the terrain. In order to do this, a minimum which required a lot of special attention and extra of built surface area has been allocated while the vast efforts: majority of the resort remains open terrain, much of it with its original vegetal coverage. SBR conducted an environmental site assessment of the trees affected by construction. More than In order to preserve the terrain, the resort was built making 200 fully grown trees have been preserved use of original shape of the land. For instance, the on site: In order to achieve this, special construction swimming pool was just placed where an old dirt road used techniques had to be applied. This included the use to be. The same concept was applied in many other locations such as the villa wing where villas emplacements of micro bore pilling techniques. This pilling were chosen according to the less impactful locations for technique using lighter equipment bores a hole the trees and surrounding vegetal coverage. instead of compacting the earth, which allows to significantly reduce the amount of vibrations near In a later phase of development of SBR, further targets the tree roots and to preserve the trees (the use of were developed to enhance biodiversity. In particular, 450 conventional pilling techniques would have killed additional trees were planted, and numerous man-made most of the trees). ponds have been placed in various locations of the resort. These self-maintained ecosystems, attract a variety of Training and supervision. Such decision to wildlife including frogs, dragonflies and many others. preserve the trees was very unusual at the time of construction in Singapore and therefore required Pushing the concept, SBR is trying hard new solutions extra attention during construction. Indeed, constant supervision of the worker’s teams was of mosquito control (which is usually done by required to make sure that no toxic spills or other fumigation) that would be less impactful to biodiversity. A common practices were going to affect the trees. new control mechanisms using BTI technology is currently Because there were so many trees to preserve, under trial. These treatments are meant to be more buildings had to be built around these trees. This focused on certain species (mosquitoes) and therefore was a particular challenge and each tree required known to have lesser impacts on other species inhabiting an average of 10 consultants to make sure that both the premises. the trees and the surrounding structures would coexist well. A future objective would be to better understand and monitor the biodiversity of the area by establishing a photo database to record the various species and sightings. Having done so many efforts to preserve the biodiversity on site, SBR is very active at promoting not only the preservation of species on site but also educating on the concept of biodiversity on a large scale. Indeed, SBR has implemented various educational programs on this topic. SBR will continue its efforts to develop solutions to make its facilities a biodiversity sanctuary SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 130130 SBR Biodiversity Outreach Programs Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environment •Biodiversity Exhibit: permanent A picture exhibit on biodiversity within 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national our café area. The pictures (both medium conservation list species with habitats in areas and large size) on display were all taken affected by operations within the resort. Our aim is to promote Singapore National Parks board has published a book biodiversity and to showcase that our highlighting endangered species in Singapore. conservation efforts have allowed to preserve a rich variety of species on site. SBR has a copy of this book for its reference and information can also be obtained from the following website: •Biodiversity Portal: SBR has developed the Biodiversity.sg Singapore red list Website which has gained strong support from leading organisations in the field both http://www.nparks.gov.sg/cms/index.php?option=com_co locally and internationally. ntent&view=article&id=146&Itemid=128 Program supported by: United Nations, Conservation International, World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), National University of Singapore, Singapore Science Centre, Singapore Institute of Biology, Singapore Environment Council. Website:(www.biodiversity.sg) •Eco tours: SBR eco tours have a special Number of IUCN red list species potentially affected: 2 emphasis on biodiversity preservation on According to the Singapore Red List, both these species are our site. To date, more than 21,000 present on Sentosa and thus could potentially be affected persons have attended the tours from by our operations: various stakeholders: schools, universities, Spotted Owl (Strix occidentalis) corporates, guests… Status: Near Threatened •TV eco channels: Two in-house TV Oriental Magpie -Robin (Copsychus saularis) channels are dedicated to environmental Status: Least Concern awareness and both cover elements of We are also concerned about these issues and we provide a biodiversity issues amongst other range of information on species including links to environmental issues. endangered species in Singapore from our biodiversity site . Biodiversity.sg www.biodiversity.sg SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 131131 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environment Eco Alfresco Café Dining Our dining experience caters to more than just an experience, care is taken in minimising carbon footprint while guests enjoy their meals. Dishes are prepared with homegrown herbs within the resort's own garden, from mints to basil and many more spices of a variety. Savour some of our all-time favourites such as fish and chips or try out the grilled fish platter for healthier choices. Our green conscious café Every ingredients used in the menu are ensured with care to minimise carbon foot print, this includes purchasing ingredient primarily from local sources first and when unavailable purchases will then be made from the next nearest source possible including countries such as Vietnam and Malaysia. Event decors are prepared fully using home grown leafs and flowers as decor, this in turn leads to minimum or no usage of tablecloths. Through a food disposal system, usage of garbage bags is also minimised. While appreciating the nature around the vicinity, we hope to share the finer details to the dining experience with our valued diners. From embracing what nature has to offer around us and aspire to continuously bring that experience to the plate. Leave the fins in the sea! No to Blue fin tuna And many others… SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 132 40 Case study: Our Eco Conscious Cafe Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good SBR’s restaurant (like the rest of our resort) has put into place very special policies when it comes to sustainability issues: SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 133 42 EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND Siloso Beach Resort WASTE Staying for Good Environment Total electricity usage for 2018 (kW/h) 250,000.00 200,000.00 150,000.00 100,000.00 50,000.00 0.00 SBR takes the consequences faced by 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions global climate change seriously. In Singapore 1kwh corresponds to 0.5233 kg of CO2 Despite that it is aware that its own operations have (equivalent) (source NEA) insignificant impacts on a global scale (and climate change is a global scale issue), it also recognises the SBR monthly average electricity consumption is 194,815 fact that any given business including its own has an KWh important role to play in doing the right thing by reducing its Green House significantly Therefore SBR monthly carbon emission is 0.5233 x 194,815 Gas Emissions. But most importantly to = 101,946.7 kg CO2e actively promote, share and showcase how it does so in order to inspire many other businesses to do And for one year: 101,946.7 X 12 = 1,223,360 kg CO2e the same, especially in its own line of business: the hospitality and leisure sector which is a global SBR annual estimated carbon footprint: 1,223 tonne of significant contributor. CO2e Numerous efforts have been done at SBR to cut (This value is only an estimate based on electricity down atmospheric emissions. Some related to consumption; it does include external operations, supply energy management while others are chains and transport) more towards a passive approach. Furthermore, the above amount should be significantly The below section provides an evaluation of SBR’s reduced once taken into account the trees emissions based on energy use at the resort: present on site. “ ” SBR annual carbon footprint for 2018: SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 134134 Siloso Beach Resort SBR Dense Foliage Staying for Good Environment Elements of canopy at SBR Due to its extent of vegetal coverage , SBR benefits from an excellent air quality environment SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 135135 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environment The main source of GHG emissions at SBR is primarily from electricity consumption which originated from the combustion of Our gardening natural gas. activities account In addition to this primary consumption, several for a very small smaller and irregular activities are also contributing but to a much smaller extent. While aware of these amount of sources, SBR is still in the process of gaining a more emissions precise understanding of the emissions involved from these sources. 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Other indirect GHG sources: Tree preservation and planting (passive Gardening activities: May involve from time to time approach): preserving trees on site, has also in the process the usage of machineries which burn fuel, significantly contributed to offset emissions on site. Indeed, these include: preserving the trees also preserves the carbon stored within the trees as well as the carbon dioxide removal -Land-mowers potential of these trees. While it is very difficult to evaluate -Chainsaws how much carbon emissions is saved through this means, It -Various other cutting machines -Emergency generator is significant. SBR has preserved over 200 trees on its site and additionally planted another 450. Fumigating (mosquito control) •Good design (passive approach):Due to the energy The chemicals are sprayed through a blowing efficient design of the buildings, SBR energy use is machine which consumes fuel. significantly reduced which translates to significant reduction in atmospheric emissions. Transports: SBR operates two small buses to transport its guests to and from the resort. The trips involved are however short (about 4 km) and •Active approach: SBR has numerous initiatives to therefore the emissions involved through this reduce its energy consumption through the use of new means is relatively small. energy efficient technologies. The reduction in energy usage translates to reduction in atmospheric SBR 12 seater van emissions. SBR 15 seater van SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 136136 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Siloso Beach Resort SBR has a policy in place to avoid the usage of ozone Staying for Good Environment depleting substances. As such, very few if any are actually used on site. These substances may only be contained in: •Coolants in fridges •Sprays of various sorts SBR is free of any CFC’s HCFC’s are present in small amounts and within Small amounts of HCFC’s are government regulations. contained in our fridges and Emissions by weight: insignificant cold rooms in refrigerants liquids 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions The only SBR related activities that involve some of these substances are transportation and gardening. Values have not been directly measured but are very low considering the amount of transport and gardening requiring machineries involved. Insignificant amounts of SOx and NOx originate from gardening machineries At SBR atmospheric emissions of either ozone depleting substances or Nitrous or Sulfuric oxides are: Very small amount of SOx and NOx come from our bus exhausts (our bus trips only cover small distances) SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 137137 306-1 Water discharge by quality and Siloso Beach Resort destination Staying for Good Environment Total amount of water discharge for 2018: 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 28,432.1 cubic meters (based on estimates from employee and guest water Majority of waste at SBR is recycled and collected from usage). housekeeping and F&B department. Plastic bottles, tin cans, and cardboard containers are collected and All of our discharged water comes from the recycled. The waste that is not reused or recycled is sent public water supply and goes back to the public for incineration. We are constantly improving our water treatment. Almost all of the water used is monitoring systems and plan to provide more discharged through showering and flushing of information about the amount of waste produced in toilets. A very small percentage (less then 1%) of subsequent sustainability reports. our water withdrawn is consumed as drinking water by our guests or used by our housekeeping Most of the food waste is also recycled using the natural staff for general cleaning. methods of vermicomposting (using earthworms) or Our other sources of water, such as spring water aquaculture (tilapia and other fish). We also recycle and rain water, are not discharged, but rather the some of our cardboard through the vermicomposting excess is used for gardening purposes by SBR and process. Sentosa. New closed loop food waste recycling system We have a new system implemented in 2013 to Our earthworms hard at supplement our vermicomposting system for food work! waste. This system involves the use of Aquaculture and the local Tilapia Fish. Prior to this system, we disposed our food waste either in the wormery or the machine but the machine was wrote off in 2012. So we can only dispose the food waste in the general waste or wormery. The only problem is that we are limited to Vegetarian waste without any citrus or oils. After implementation of the new Tilapia Aquaculture system using grey, red and black Tilapia we increased the types of food waste being recycled to some meat items, bread and vegetables but some of the wormery food waste feeding restriction still applies in the aquaculture system located in the Bio filtration pond at the second level. Experimental composting system SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 138138 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environment Food waste collected for vermicomposting 2018 (Kg/month) 540 520 500 480 460 Cardboard used for vermicomposting 2018 (kg) 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Community and educational impact: SBR has donated worm castings to more than 30 schools and community gardens, and conducted training on vermicomposting for more than 10 schools! SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 139139 At SBR we have a unique approach to Siloso Beach Resort promote recycling by linking the end Staying for Good Environment product to the source. Below are some panels that we developed and displayed. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 140140 306-3 Significant spills Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Environment To date, SBR did not have any instances of spills whatsoever. 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff No Spills to date and SBR intends to keep it this way No water body is directly affected by 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste SBR’s water runoff. SBR does not have, produce or use any Water runoff goes to the Sentosa drain which then waste that is considered hazardous flows to treatment facilities. under the Basel convention. SBR actually has a positive impact in water As a hotel environment, hazardous waste conservation through two activities. are very limited. •SBR has constructed numerous ponds throughout Cleaning products used are selected to the resort which bring biodiversity back to these be environmentally friendly. areas. •SBR has set up a main pond nearby its resort where the overflow of the spring goes. This pond has created a natural habitat for various species of insects fish and frogs. “ ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 141141 Waste management Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Reusing scrap metal Stone table At SBR we make use of waste in Recycling bins for the guests any way we can Carton recycling All guest rooms equipped In-room messages with soap and shampoo dispensers And much more… SBR Sustainability Report 2019 142142 Siloso Beach Resort Waste management Staying for Good Making use of recycled materials At SBR many of the items are actually from 100% recycled origin or simply from unwanted sources. A few of these items include: A large portion of the outdoor steps are from reused timbers from a railway trail in Australia All the corridors and a large portion of walkways are layered with rubber mats If we could we would do more… which are 100% recycled However there are limitations to the amount from car tires of recycled items that can be used in core construction under current Singapore law The children playground comprises items which are have been reused from an unwanted source And much more… … SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 143143 Waste management Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Closed-Loop Cycles for Food Waste At SBR there are two closed loop cycles which are used to naturally deal with much of the food waste: 1. Aquaculture: Tilapias and other fishes in our pond eat a variety of food items such as bread, vegetables, and meat (non-oily). The tilapia also produces nutrient-rich water which is then used for watering the plants. 2. Worm-Composting closed loop cycle: FoodWaste Food Waste Earthworms About 5KG of Earthworms Food waste gets About 25KG of vegetable andfruit fruit Food waste gets vegetable and eaten by our about wasteisiscollected collected eaten by our 40,000 1 million waste daily for daily for earthworms, earthworms,and and vermicomposting vermicomposting turned into castings turned into castings No Wastage Restaurant Vegetables Castings are fertilizer Vegetables from for vegetables free of farm supply about pesticides and 20% of event needs chemical fertilizers Siloso Beach Sustainability SBRResort Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 144144 Siloso Beach Resort COMPLIANCE Staying for Good Environment SBR has always been compliant with national regulations and has not received any 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental fines for misconduct. laws and regulations SBR will continue to apply most stringent To date, SBR has never endured any fines or practices when it comes to meeting regulatory non-monetary sanctions of any kind for requirements. noncompliance with environmental laws and In fact many of the initiatives at SBR go far regulations. Monetary value is 0. beyond the legal requirements. This includes aspects such as energy efficient SBR is a very responsible business and takes design, water management, energy great care in applying the precautionary management, waste management and more. principle. SBR has a holistic approach to sustainable management and believes in test-bedding new practices and technologies in order to continuously improve. Having done this for many years now, it has also put SBR a significant step ahead of government regulations. SBR’s concept is to invest in new technology and practices early on and reap the benefits, rather than wait until forced to catch up as regulations and accepted business practices change. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 145145 Social Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover “ 2018 New Employee Hired By Age Group 1 5 ” 20 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Below 30 30-50 Above 50 Siloso Beach Resort full-time employees enjoy: •Leave entitlement New Employees Hired 2018 •Medical benefits •Dental benefits Group Persons Group Total •Public holidays Rate** Rate** •Sentosa Island partner card Male 15 0.30 0.18 •Bonuses •Special allowances Female 11 0.32 0.13 Below 30 20 0.51 0.23 401-3 Parental leave Total number of employees that were entitled 31-50 5 0.14 0.06 to parental leave, by gender. Male Female Above 51 1 0.11 0.01 0 0 Employee Turnover 2018 Total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. Group Persons Group Total Rate** Rate** Male Female 0 0 Male 13 0.26 0.15 Total number of employees that returned to Female 11 0.32 0.13 work in the reporting period after parental leave ended, by gender. Below 30 14 0.36 0.17 Male Female 0 0 31-50 7 0.19 0.08 Total number of employees that returned to Above 51 3 0.33 0.04 work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender. *All employees are in the same region/operation at Siloso Beach Resort Male Female ** Group Rate is the rate as compared to number of staff in 0 0 that respective group (as reported in 405-1) . Total rate is the rate as compared to the total number of staff (as reported in 102-8) . SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 146146 Siloso Beach Resort 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Staying for Good Occupational Health and Safety management-worker health and safety committees SBR is active in participating with various groups for the improvement of workers’ health and safety. SBR regularly sends representative staff to attend trainings which include: -Fire safety training -CPR and AED training -Risk assessment Percentage of total workforce: 25% Only staff that are most relevant in applying these skills to improve the safety of others are sent for training. Our health screening program combined with 403-2 Types of injury and rates or injury, our employee health occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities package provides a We abide by the Singapore national laws on recording and good medical coverage reporting accident statistics, which follows the recommendations of the International Labor Organization. Employees: Gender Injury Occupational Lost day Absentee Work-related rate disease rate (ODR) rate (LDR) rate (AR) fatalities Male 0 0 0 0 0 Female 0 0 0 0 0 Contractors: Gender Injury rate Work-related fatalities Male 0 0 Female 0 0 * Not including minor injuries. No independent contractors were injured or suffered from occupational disease. ** Lost Days refers to scheduled working days and is counted when more than half of a working day is lost. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 147147 Assistance Programs regarding Siloso Beach Resort GUIDANCE Economic Staying for Good Occupational Health and Safety Serious Diseases Education/Training Counselling Prevention/Risk Treatment Control Program Recipients Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Workers X X X X Worker’s Families X X X X Community X X X X Members 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills risk of diseases related to their occupation and transition assistance programs None of the employees at SBR are exposed to any high incidence or high risk of diseases In addition, numerous opportunities are offered to related to their occupation. the staff to attend training programs and educational talks which varies depending on what Since 2012, SBR has put into place a free and opportunities for learning come available compulsory health screening program for all of its (conferences, trade shows., workshops…) In employees (the program continued to be Singapore the CPF fund, for which SBR conducted in 2013). This screening process also contributes, is a main way for employees to aims to raise awareness on a range of common manage their retirement funds. illnesses and chronic diseases (SBR does not have any occupational activities that are related to a high incidence of occupational disease). During this 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular screening, health professionals come on-site to performance and career development reviews conduct a series of tests and to educate the staff on health related topics. All our employees receive performance and career development reviews once a year. 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions – 100% (both males and females) SBR does not have any formal health and safety agreements with trade unions. Health and safety is very important to SBR, which is why we are BizSAFE Level 3 (SBR has recently obtained this local health and safety endorsement). TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee All of our employees are required to undertake a 2 day compulsory training upon joining the organization. In addition, every employee as 1-2 At SBR we offer our staff a range of days of additional training every year regardless of gender or employee category. options to improve their skills throughout the duration of their employment with us SBR Sustainability Report 2019 148 Siloso Beach Resort DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Diversity and equal opportunity Staying for Good 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Employment Composition of Governance Body: Nationality Above 50 years 30-40 years Male Female 100% Singaporean 33% 67% 67% 33% Ethnic Background of full time employees 2018 Foreign worker 31% Singaporean Chinese 43% Singaporean PR/ Others 15% Singaporean Singaporean Indian Malay 6% 5% Age and Gender of full time employees 2018 Age Group Gender Over 50 years old 11% Female 40% Under 30 years old 46% Male 60% 30-50 years old 43% “ ’ ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 149149 Siloso Beach Resort Diversity and equal opportunity EQUAL RENUMERATION FOR WOMEN Staying for Good AND MEN 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration HUMAN RIGHTS of women to men NON-DISCRIMINATION SBR is an equal opportunity 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective employer. The salary ratio of women/men actions taken is 1. Total number of incidents of discrimination: 0 At equal career level and background, women and men can expect the same So far SBR, since the start of operations salary range and the same level of until 2018, SBR did not have any consideration and attention. incidents of discrimination and we intend to keep it this way Siloso Beach Resort’s Commitment to Fair Employment Practices SBR has pledged to observe the 5 Principles of Fair Employment Practices under the Singapore Tripartite Agreement on Fair Employment Practices (TAFEP), these include: a. Recruit and select on the basis of merit (such as skills, experience or ability to perform the job) regardless of age, race, gender, religion, marital status and family responsibilities, or disability. b. Treat your employees fairly and with respect and put in place progressive human resource management systems. c. Provide employees with employees with equal opportunities to be considered for training and development based on their strengths and needs, to help them achieve their full potential. d. Reward your employees fairly based on their ability, performance, contribution and experience. e. Abide by labour laws and adopt the Tripartite Guidelines on Fair Employment Practices. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 150150 Siloso Beach Resort Diversity and equal opportunity Employment of persons with disabilities Staying for Good SBR takes responsibility to increase the employment opportunities for PWDs at all levels and occupations. We source for interns from associated schools to provide PWDs with working experience and relevant skills. PWDs would be mentored by experienced staff in their respective departments, which could be reception, landscaping, F&B, bellhop, storeroom and housekeeping. Often after their training is completed, PWDs would be offered full-time employment. We would not miss the big opportunity of hiring dedicated employees. By providing PWDs meaningful employment opportunities, we are giving them independence and a life of dignity for themselves. Apart from the skillsets and values that they can contribute, businesses can: Tap on an often overlooked talent pool, with the current labour shortage and foreign labour levies in Singapore SBR assigns PWDs in our landscaping, housekeeping and F&B departments. Boost a diversified workforce – SBR employs workers of all races and nationalities, in a nondiscriminatory approach. Be ready when equal opportunities and multiple standard procedures are implemented in the workplace. Create an improved workplace culture to show appreciation and to build a beneficial and sustainable business Adopt it as one of their CSR initiatives – this shows that our business is not just about profit but we are doing something more meaningful Allow staff to reflect about their own lives and be inspired – seeing PWDs being able to perform and accomplish various tasks, other staff will be more motivated to improve and excel at work SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 151 60 Siloso Beach Resort Diversity and equal opportunity Employment of persons with disabilities Staying for Good We have hired many PWDs since 2011. Several issues are taken into account when hiring them. For example, the effects on the person’s disability on his performance, as well as his overall welfare while working in SBR. Without proper policies and protocols, these people might face misunderstanding and unintentional discrimination. We communicate about our staff through various platforms In-room booklet CSR guest channel SBR identifies PWDs through badges. We We believe those with disabilities deserve a fair hope to inform guests about PWDs chance to work and be recognized for their through word of mouth, our guest inabilities and contributions. Employment of those house channels and in-room booklet. We with disabilities is one of our key activities as a hope to seek understanding from our socially responsible business. We greatly guests. appreciate your understanding and support in this initiative. SBR’s policies for hiring PWDs SBR shall not put any discrimination on employees that have disabilities of any kind; SBR shall arrange for special assistance that the potential employee with disabilities may need during the interview process, if this requirement is judged reasonable; If a person’s disability prevents the carrying out of a specific job scope, SBR will attempt to make reasonable accommodation. If reasonable accommodation is not possible, SBR reserves the right to refuse this person but may consider this person for another position currently or in the future. In developing recruitment strategies for people with disabilities, SBR will recruit widely, using national agencies, develop collaborative efforts with various groups and posting on the Internet. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 152 61 Siloso Beach Resort SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITY Staying for Good Local communities 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Development programs: 100% of our operations are implemented with such community engagement, impact assessments, SBR is actively participating to various community and development programs. development programs. Such programs include the sponsorship of university scholarships, schools An initial impact assessment of potential educational programs, the make a wish construction damage to trees and terrain was foundation and many others… conducted (this was for internal use and has not been publically disclosed). We have a Sustainability Committee and a Health and Safety Committee which deals with the relevant environmental and 413-2 Operations with significant actual and social impacts. potential negative impacts on local communities We engage with the community for feedback on As a single operated business on the island of any grievances, however as an SME located in a Sentosa (considered a leisure and primarily tourist destination, we have not found it necessary to establish formal community entertainment hub), SBR does not have consultation committees or formal local community significant negative impacts on local grievance processes. communities. We do purposefully create plans on how to engage On the contrary, SBR has a positive impact by our stakeholders, and use stakeholder mapping to assess which stakeholders would be impacted the providing leisure services while operating its most and which ones would be interested in our business in a sustainable way. activities. Community engagement: SBR has put into place a range of programs which intend to engage our staff with the community. Such programs include helping community groups in need such as the St Andrew’s Autism Center or the older workers. We encourage our staff to participate in such social movements and offer rewards for those who do. Impact assessment: SBR has recently conducted an in-depth assessment of its operations and a range of surveys, both internal and external, to gain a better understanding of the impacts of its various programs and guests satisfaction. People with disabilities: It is our continual initiative to remain as a socially responsible business. About 20% of our employees are people with disabilities. Close to 70% of our employees in Al Fresco Café are PWDs. Most of our staff with PWDs have mild intellectual disabilities. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 153153 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Customer health and safety impacts of product and service categories Products: SBR does not produce its own products, however has policies in place to purchase in the most responsible manner. This involves analyzing the products that we purchase in order to get the most sustainable options and which will also be safe for our staff and guests to use. Finished product •Services: The services that we offer have gone through a health and safety risk assessment and audited by a third party. As such every aspects of our operations follows stringent health and safety standards. Even from the beginning development stages of the Resort, health and safety impacts were assessed for improvement. List of life cycle stages subject to health and safety assessment Yes No Development of X product and concept 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the R&D Not Applicable health and safety impacts of products and services Certification Not Applicable Since opening, SBR did not have any incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes Manufacturing and Not Applicable concerning health and safety impacts of products and Production services. Marketing and X There has been a few incidents in 2014 at the hotel promotion for aspects such as: Storage distribution X and supply -Fall from slips and trip due to slippery floor: 1 -Cuts after broken glass: 0 Use and Service X Over exertion due to staircases: 2 Disposal, reuse, and X recycling These incidents were found to be accidental and not related to non compliance Percentages of products and services undergoing such procedure: Products: Not Applicable Services: 100% At SBR the level of incidents Is very low SBR Sustainability Report 2019 154154 PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Siloso Beach Resort 417-1 Requirements for product and service Staying for Good Marketing and labeling information and labeling 100% of relevant product and service categories Products: As a hotel business, many of the products that SBR uses are purchased from third parties. As such, these products already contain the regulatory labels on them with regards to content, safety, disposal and other specific aspects. SBR ensures that these labels remain on the products before handling by staff and guests. Relevant information regarding the sourcing of component products of our hospitality services, where applicable, is required. Services: Labels and banners promoting various types of At SBR all required labeling services are widely present at SBR. SBR meets all regulatory requirements with regards to labeling of safety aspects which are present on site include: •Fire exits/extinguishers location/emergency exits •Food type (e.g., nuts, spices…) •Non-smoking signs But also extensive labels and panels on services location: -reception/café/roof top garden… SBR has gone much beyond this by setting a range of information corners such as location panels at each elevator floor or our Green Hub Corner where a large scale map of the resort is displayed. Pic: Our pool signage 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling We are compliant with Since opening, SBR did not have any incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes rules and regulations and concerning product and service information and labeling. no we do not use SBR intends to keep it this way and is constantly collecting inappropriate of funny feedbacks in order to improve such aspects even further. signs when it comes to There are currently truly numerous information panels and labels throughout the resort informing on the nature of serious aspects or legal products and services. requirements 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications We have not had any reported incidents so far. SBR has a soft approach to marketing and our approach is not aggressive or competitive with other hotels. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 155155 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Siloso Beach Resort breaches of customer privacy and losses of Staying for Good Customer privacy customer data What is personal data? Like any other hotels, we are always dealing with a range of customer complaints, however so far, we Personal data refers to data, whether true or have never had any issues or complaints not, about an individual who can be identified regarding breaches of customer privacy from that data; or from that data and other and losses of data. information to which the organisation has or is likely to have access. Personal data in At SBR, customer privacy is one of our priority and Singapore is protected under the Personal we treat such data with care and professionalism. Data Protection Act 2012 (PDPA). Recently SBR has invested and put into place a major The PDPA establishes a data protection law internal backup computer system that allows all the that comprises various rules governing the customer data to be safely stored on our servers. collection, use, disclosure and care of personal data. It recognises both the rights of SBR does not store information without prior individuals to protect their personal data, approval of its customers. Most of the data that we including rights of access and correction, and collect is on a temporary basis between the time the the needs of organisations to collect, use or customer makes a booking to the time he leaves the disclose personal data for legitimate and hotel or cancels the reservation. reasonable purposes. The PDPA provides for the establishment of a national Do Not Call (DNC) Registry. The DNC Registry allows individuals to register their Singapore telephone numbers to opt out of receiving marketing phone calls, mobile text messages such as SMS or MMS, and faxes from organisations. Customer data and privacy protection is important to us “ ’ ’ ’ ’ ” SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 156156 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Our final key message ’ SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 157157 Siloso Beach Resort Staying for Good Thank you for reading through! That’s all folks! SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2014 158158 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blendingfor Staying Life and Leisure with Nature Good 1. Review of 2017 2018 targets Since the construction of the Resort, the Owners had a vision to develop an eco friendly resort. Below details the targets that have been set by the Sustainability Committee: LIST OF TARGETS AND INITIATIVES: 2017/2018 Component Target Comment Marketing To increase targeted marketing with regards to the villas Still ongoing; carried over and functions to 2018/2019 targets Financial profit To remain stable with regards to previous years income Still ongoing; carried over and possibly increase sales to 2018/2019 targets Guests satisfaction To improve guests satisfaction through room renovations Room renovation almost and improvement of the café area entirely completed. Café renovation is still pending. carried over to 2018/2019 targets Service quality To improve service quality through training in Still ongoing; carried over housekeeping and f&b to 2018/2019 targets . Safety To remain current safety standards and continuously Achieved, with no major mitigate risks accidents. Regulatory To remain compliant with all local regulations Achieved. We continue to I – Sustainability Targets requirements comply with regulations. Energy Achieved. Our consumption Consumption To maintain the current energy consumption levels and has remained stable. possibly improve Water resources To retain the current water consumption and possibly Achieved. Our consumption improve has remained stable. Carbon emissions To maintain the current energy consumption levels and In line with our energy possibly improve consumption, the carbon emissions have remained stable. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability 2018 Report 2012 159 Annex Siloso Beach Resort Blendingfor Staying Life and Leisure with Nature Good 1. Review of 2017 2018 targets Component Target Comment Employees To improve employee satisfaction through Still ongoing; carried over to satisfaction benefits review and activities 2018/2019 targets Customer feedback To improve response time to feedbacks to less Still ongoing; carried over to than 24h 2018/2019 targets Innovation and R&D To continue R&D on aspects such as food waste Still ongoing; carried over to and small scale renewable systems 2018/2019 targets Social responsibility To continue hiring people with special needs and Achieved. Our % of employees maintain over 15% of workforce with disabilities is more than 20% for 2018 Environmental To continue to outreach through the Achieved. Our biodiversity.sg outreach biodiversity.sg platform platform has remained active. Waste generated To maintain current levels or even reduce the Achieved. Our vermicomposting amount of waste generated program has remained active and stable, and recycling program is consistent. Onsite biodiversity To continue with sustainable pest control Achieved. We continue to practices and enhance landscaping initiatives maintain sustainable pest control I – Sustainability Targets and landscaping practices. Ethical business To continue to comply with all ethical regulations Achieved. We have stepped up practices and even exceed them our efforts with regards to risk management. Supplier To work towards gradually phasing out products Still ongoing; carried over to using palm oil 2018/2019 targets, but modified to allow for use of products with sustainable palm oil. SBR has successfully switched to using certified sustainable palm oil for cooking oil. SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 160 Annex Siloso Beach Resort GRI Content Index (page 1 of 5) Blendingfor Staying Life and Leisure with Nature Good Disclosure GRI Standard Title Name/ Description Page No. Comments No. General Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation 17 General Activities, brands, products, Disclosures 102-2 and services 17 General Disclosures 102-3 Location of headquarters 18 General Disclosures 102-4 Location of operations 18-19 General Disclosures 102-5 Ownership and legal form 19 General Disclosures 102-6 Markets served 20-21 General Disclosures 102-7 Scale of the organisation 22 General Information on employees and Disclosures 102-8 other workers 23 General Disclosures 102-9 Supply chain 24 Significant changes to the General organisation and its supply Disclosures 102-10 chain 25-29 General Precautionary Principle or Disclosures 102-11 approach 30 General Disclosures 102-12 External initiatives 31 General Disclosures 102-13 Membership of associations 32-33 General Statement from senior Disclosures 102-14 decision-maker 7-8 II – GRI Content Index General Key impacts, risks, and Disclosures 102-15 opportunities 34-54 General Values, principles, standards Disclosures 102-16 and norms of behavior 55 General Disclosures 102-18 Governanace structure 56 General Disclosures 102-19 Delegating authority 56 Executive-level responsibility General for economic, environmental, Disclosures 102-20 and social topics 56 SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 161 Annex Siloso Beach Resort GRI Content Index (page 2 of 5) Blendingfor Staying Life and Leisure with Nature Good Disclosure GRI Standard Title Name/ Description Page No. Comments No. Consulting stakeholders on General economic, environmental, and Disclosures 102-21 social topics 57 Composition of the highest General governance body and its Disclosures 102-22 committees 57 General Chair of the highest governace Disclosures 102-23 body 57 General Nominating and selecting the Disclosures 102-24 highest governance body 58 General Disclosures 102-25 Conflicts of interest 58 Evaluating the highest General governance body's Disclosures 102-28 performance 59 General Communicating critical Disclosures 102-33 concerns 60 General Disclosures 102-35 Remuneration policies 61 General Process for determining Disclosures 102-36 remuneration 61 General Disclosures 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 80 General Collective bargaining Disclosures 102-41 agreements 81 General Identifying and selecting Disclosures 102-42 stakeholders 81 General Approach to stakeholder Disclosures 102-43 engagement 82-83 II – GRI Content Index General Disclosures 102-44 Key topics and conerns raised 85 Entities included in the General consolidated financial Disclosures 102-45 statements 86 General Defining report content and Disclosures 102-46 topic Boundaries 87 General Disclosures 102-48 Restatments of information 89 General Disclosures 102-49 Changes in reporting 89 General Disclosures 102-50 Reporting period 89 General Disclosures 102-51 Date of most recent report 89 SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 162 Annex Siloso Beach Resort GRI Content Index (page 3 of 5) Blendingfor Staying Life and Leisure with Nature Good Disclosure GRI Standard Title Name/ Description Page No. Comments No. General Disclosures 102-52 Reporting cycle 89 Contact point for questions General Disclosures 102-53 regarding the report 89 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI General Disclosures 102-54 Standards 89 General Disclosures 102-55 GRI content index 89 General Disclosures 102-56 External assurance 162 166 Management Explanation of the material Approach 103-1 topic and its Boundary 92-93 Management The management approach Approach 103-2 and its components 93-94 Management Evaluation of the management Approach 103-3 approach 94 Economic Direct economic value Performance 201-1 generated and distributed 95 Financial implications and Economic other risks and opportunities Performance 201-2 due to climate change 96 Defined beenfit plan Economic obligations and other retire Performance 201-3 plans 96 Economic Financial assistance received by Partially reported, as Performance 201-4 the government 96 information is confidential Ratios of standard entry level Partially reported, as limited wage by gender compared to data is available Market Presence 202-1 local minimum wage 96 Proportion of senior management hired from the Market Presence 202-2 local community 97 II – GRI Content Index Materials used by weight or Partially reported, as limited Materials 301-1 volume 98 data is available Partially reported, as limited Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 99-101 data is available Energy consumption within the Energy 302-1 organisation 102-103 Reduction of energy Energy 302-4 consumption 111-114 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 118-119 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of Water 303-2 water 119 Water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 119 SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 163 Annex Siloso Beach Resort GRI Content Index (page 4 of 5) Blendingfor Staying Life and Leisure with Nature Good Disclosure GRI Standard Title Name/ Description Page No. Comments No. Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Biodiversity 304-1 adjacent to, protected areas…. 121 Significant impacts of activities, products, and servies on Biodiversity 304-2 biodiversity 121 Biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 130 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list Biodiversity 304-4 species with habitats in… 131 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Emissions 305-2 emissions 134 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Emissions 305-3 emissions 136 Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 136 Emissions of ozone-depleting Partially reported, as Emissions 305-6 substances (ODS) 137 specific data is not available Effluents and Water discharge by quality and Waste 306-1 destination 138 Effluents and Waste by type and disposal Waste 306-2 method 138-140 Effluents and Waste 306-3 Significant spills 141 Effluents and Waste 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 141 Effluents and Water bodies affected by water Waste 306-5 discharges and/ or runoff 141 Non-compliance with Environmental environmental laws and Compliance 307-1 regulations 145 II – GRI Content Index New employee hires and Employment 401-1 employee turnover 146 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partEmployment 401-2 time employees 146 Employment 401-3 Parental leave 146 Workers representation in formal joint managementOccupational worker health and safety Health and Safety 403-1 committees 147 Types of injury and rates of Occupational injury, occupational diseases, Health and Safety 403-2 lost days, absenteeism… 147-148 SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 164 Annex Siloso Beach Resort GRI Content Index (page 5 of 5) Blendingfor Staying Life and Leisure with Nature Good Disclosure GRI Standard Title Name/ Description Page No. Comments No. Workers with high incidence or Occupational high risk of diseases related to Health and Safety 403-3 their occupation 148 Health and safety topics Occupational covered in formal agreement Health and Safety 403-4 with trade unions 148 Training and Average hours of training per Partially reported, as limited Education 404-1 year per employee 148 data is available Programs for upgrading Training and employee skills and transition Education 404-2 assistance programs 148 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Training and and career development Education 404-3 reviews 148 Diversity and Equal Diversity of governance bodies Opportunity 405-1 and employees 149 Ratio of basic salary and Diversity and Equal remuneration of women and Opportunity 405-2 men 150 Incidents of discrimination and Non-discrimination 406-1 corrective actions taken 150-152 Operations with local community engagement, Local Communities 413-1 impact assessments, and… 153 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Local Communities 413-2 impacts on local communities 153 Assessment of the health and Customer Health safety impacts of product and II – GRI Content Index and Safety 416-1 service categories 154 Incidents of non-compliance Customer Health concerning the health and and Safety 416-2 safety imoacts of… 154 Requirements for product and Marketing and service information and Labeling 417-1 labeling 155 Incidents of non-compliance Marketing and concerning product and service Labeling 417-2 information and labeling 155 Incidents of non-compliance Marketing and concerning marketing Labeling 417-3 communications 155 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of Customer Privacy 418-1 customer data 156 SBRResort Siloso Beach Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Sustainability Report 2012 165
