| Communication on Progress 1 e-Zest Solutions Ltd. Communication on Progress From January 2018 to January 2019 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Date: 1st January 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that e-Zest Solutions Ltd. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Devendra Deshmukh CEO and Founder Confidential Confidential 1 | Communication on Progress 1 Description of Actions 1.1 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals e-Zest Solutions Ltd completely supports protection of Principles of Human Rights duly promoted by UN Global Compact. We are aware of our responsibility to society and are committed to support and follow the principles. • e-Zest has a strong policy in creating a stimulating work environment where team members are comfortable and content at work. • We treat all team members fairly and equally. We do not discriminate on grounds of age, gender, colour, race, ethnicity, language, caste, creed, economic or social status or disability. • We abide by model standing orders prescribed by Government of India, which ensure, adherence to the basic Principles of Natural Justice during the process of handing Indiscipline. • We abide by all Laws of Land and we are not exposed to any legal action for nonconformity of any legal provisions. • Considering the nature of our business we believe the potential to become complicit in human rights abuses is limited. • We consider safety and well-being of our team members as one of our topmost priorities. We ensure that our facilities have requisite safety equipment and that sanitation is maintained all around. • e-Zest has always valued human rights and has always focused on developing a healthy work environment. Our foundations are strongly imbibed with the philosophy that a satisfied team member would deliver 110% while a dissatisfied team member will do no good to him/herself as well as the organization. To ensure the protection of the Confidential Confidential 2 | Communication on Progress human rights of our resources e-Zest has set up a code of conduct for all the team members. Implementation • Our team members are well informed and have the necessary tools to respond to workplace emergencies; first aid kits and fire extinguishers are readily available; and escape exits are clearly marked and free from obstruction. We regularly conduct firedrills to evaluate our emergency preparedness. • The company conducts security risk assessments and ensures that company security arrangements are in good shape. • e-Zest does not discriminate any candidate based on Caste, Creed, Religion and Gender during process of selection or in career progression. • We believe on meritocracy and our decisions are based only on the principles of Merit. • We strongly support women empowerment and strictly follow the gender equality policy. • We offer flexible policies for women team members understanding their personal and professional responsibilities. • We have complied all guidelines and provision of Laws in respect of Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) Act of Government of India. We have installed strong mechanism to deal with any case of violation in this respect. CSR Initiatives • e-Zest team members regularly participate in CSR activities and do their bit in helping the needy. We sensitively work with Impact related organizations to deliver for maximum benefit to the community. Neurosynaptic Communication is a sister’s concern company of e-Zest. Together we have taken an initiative to provide quality healthcare to population below poverty line with the help of telemedicine technology & expert doctors. • The project named ‘e-Zest Saath’ is aimed at supporting the rural population with limited access to healthcare facilities. As a part of this initiative, we set up a Confidential Confidential 3 | Communication on Progress telemedicine centre at a village in Pune Maharashtra, India. We provided the core technology, operations and doctor consultation costs. We strive to continue our services through our technology expertise which could benefit thousands of underprivileged lives. Confidential Confidential 4 | Communication on Progress Figure 1: Blood Donation Campaign Pictures at e-Zest Women Power at e-Zest e-Zest strongly believes in empowering women and eliminating gender inequality. To support this cause, we have designed organizational policies which allow women to perform in a flexible work environment and achieve their highest potential. We have a strong policy in Confidential Confidential 5 | Communication on Progress creating a stimulating work environment where women team members are comfortable and content at work Some of our initiatives for Women at e-Zest Following are few of the ways in which we strive to support our women through organizational policies • All members including women have a flexible dress code policy • We offer flexible policies for women team members understanding their personal and professional responsibilities including flexible working hours which they are free to decide individually based on their workload. • e-Zest team members enjoy Work from Home facility in case of certain emergencies or genuine reasons. Proper due diligence is done to take care of data security in such cases. • Growth and career path for each female member is designed keeping in view her career aspirations and interest areas • We provide the additional benefit to our women team members going on onsite assignments of providing a travel visa to their spouse/family as well • Apart from the being entitled to the 26-week paid Maternity Leave as per the Maternity Benefit Act, our female team members enjoy extended leaves or the option to Work from Home as per their comfort and convenience for a mutually agreed period of time Round-the-year Programs for our Women Team members • We conduct Women Wellness initiatives to support and encourage them • We organize special programs for women throughout the year like Women’s Day Celebrations, Cultural Competitions, Pinkathon – A Marathon specially for women, and Health Awareness Programs Confidential Confidential 6 | Communication on Progress Figure 2: Stills from Pinkathon • We have programs to encourage our women team members to write technical blogs, which have resulted in tremendous success. One of our female bloggers’ work has been recognized by an International University SESSIONS HEADED BY OUR WOMEN LEADERS CELEBRATING OUR WOMEN EMPLOYEES ON INTERNATIONAL WOMEN’S DAY FELICITATING THE CONTRIBUTIONS OF OUR POWEHOUSE WOMEN PERFORMERS Figure 3: Initiatives and Programs for Women at e-Zest Confidential Confidential 7 | Communication on Progress Safety of our Women Team members We give utmost importance to the safety of our women team members and have taken all necessary steps to ensure 100% safety. • We discourage our team members working late nights and mostly allocate day shifts to women team members. In exceptional cases if we have a women team member working late nights we ensure that special arrangement has been for the commute back home. We also ensure that she is escorted by a male colleague/team member till she safely reaches home. • e-Zest has all its women team members registered at ‘Buddycop’ – an online group on a popular messaging app which is administered by a Police Officer of the City Police, where working women, especially in IT sector join to ensure they have immediate access to the police in dire situations Provisions for protection against Sexual Harassment • We have complied all guidelines and provision of Laws with respect to the Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act of Government of India. We have installed strong mechanisms to deal with any case of violation in this regard • We have an Internal Complaint Committee to address Sexual Harassment related issues • We conduct Small Group Discussions to sensitize our Team Members about provisions of Sexual Harassment Act • We have formal and informal interactions with female team members from time to time to get their feedback and listen to their grievances if any Testimonials from e-Zest Leaders “e-Zest has given me every opportunity to grow as a woman leader at every step during my 9-year long journey with them. The Leadership team has supported me when my family needed me the most & allowed me to work as per my Anjali Kondhare convenience to help maintain my work-life balance. They Programme Manager Confidential Confidential 8 | Communication on Progress also supported me during hard times, appreciated my efforts every now and then, and celebrated my success through my journey. They not only encouraged me to be more participative, but also made me feel as a part of this family. This in turn, helped me to achieve my goals and objectives successfully.” Measurement of outcomes • We have educated our Team Leaders about the Human Rights and we are all committed to ensure compliance of the same in word and spirit. • We have formed Internal Complaint Committee and we also have Whistle Blower Policy and all issues of any violation are handled efficiently and up to its logical conclusion. • As a result of our policies we did not have any legal cases, fines, rulings etc. or other relevant events to report • We did not have any safety related incidents We have so far not been exposed to any case involving violation of Human Rights. Confidential Confidential 9 | Communication on Progress 1.2 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals e-Zest completely agrees and abides by the principles related to Labour under the UN global Compact. We uphold the rights of all the team members to freedom of association and collective bargaining and are free to participate and join trade unions if they wish to. Since we maintain excellent relations with our team members, they have not felt the need to join any such unions. We adhere to the provisions of Labour Laws, which prohibits engagement of Bonded Labour and Child Labour. Implementation • e-Zest team members enjoy flexible working hours and they are free to decide individually based on their workload. • Remuneration for individual position is sufficient and team members are given increments based on the yearly performance appraisal. • Salaries/incentives are paid regularly and on time • Subsidized lunch is provided to all team members • The deductions from the Salary are strictly as per the provisions of the Law and we do not deduct any unauthorized amounts from the salary of Team Members • We have Internal Complaint Committee to address Sexual Harassment related issues. • We conduct Small Group Discussions to sensitize our Team Members about provisions of Sexual Harassment Act. • Government of India has voluntarily accepted to abide by all Principles of Human Rights. It has formulated various Labour Laws to ensure protection of Human Rights. We abide by all provisions of various Labour Laws regularly and we have not violated Confidential Confidential 10 | Communication on Progress any provisions of the same. • We have formal and informal interactions with team members from time to time to get their feedback and listen to their grievances if any. • Star performers are awarded and recognized at the quarterly town hall meeting. This meeting also gives a platform to the team to voice their ideas and opinions on a public platform. • We, as responsible Corporate Citizen, abide by all the provisions of Labour Laws of Government of India and through various Internal Audits, ensure full compliance with the same. Measurement of Outcomes • We are abiding with all Labour Laws and we are never exposed for legal action for violation of any provisions of Labour Laws. Confidential Confidential 11 | Communication on Progress 1.3 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals Environmental degradation is one of the major concerns for government, corporates and the people in general today. The rising, alarming deforestation has already begun to show its various ramifications in an adverse manner. e-Zest realizes the environmental challenges the world is facing today and is dedicatedly working towards saving the environment and keeping it green. In all our activities the focus is on keeping the carbon footprint to the lowest. We also understand the importance of saving energy and which has been in the veins of our organization. Implementation • We have limited our use of printer to save paper and have already implemented digital office initiative within the organization as well as our associates. • We avoid printing of hard copies/e-mails unless absolutely necessary and if a print is to be taken both sides of paper are used. • Waste is properly recycled and disposed off • For food, we have an in-house catering supplier which offers natural food and beverage products. • Our team is highly active in the environmental activities and often participates in tree plantation drives. We helped a group called “Nisargraja” who has been planting trees at Ayyappa temple at Dehuroad cantonment board. The activity was conducted in the month of May 2018 wherein 30 members of e-Zest contributed in tree plantation. • Team Members are encouraged to car-pool and use Public Transport for commutation • To promote carpooling we had hosted a camp for QuickRide which provides carpooling services • We switch off ACs when on-floor people density falls below 20% • Lights and other electrical appliances are switched off when not in use. Confidential Confidential 12 | Communication on Progress Figure 4: Tree Plantation Drive Measurement of outcomes • The nature of eZest’s business is IT and is office based. Our operations do not have a high environmental impact. Our green initiatives are showing good results, one example being the reduction in consumption of electricity. • More and more team members are getting involved in the plantation drives. • Collaborative efforts of the organization and the team members to contribute towards social cause enabled us to bring smiles on various faces by meeting out their little needs adding the initiatives to our CSR portfolio. Confidential Confidential 13 | Communication on Progress 1.4 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals • e-Zest Solutions is compliant with the provisions of the Government of India to prevent Bribery and Corruption. • Neither do we participate nor do we support any unethical practices like Corruption or Bribery. • e-Zest is extremely focused on keeping malpractices away within as well as outside the organization. • We have never been indulged in any corrupt practices and have a policy to report any such incidence to the management immediately. Implementation We have implemented the Whistle Blower Policy which encourages Team Members to share their information about any unethical work practices like Corruption and Bribery. The identities of the whistle-blower are kept completely confidential. All matters received through Whistle Blower Policy are handled confidentially and efficiently till the logical conclusion. Measurement of outcomes Till date, we have not had a single incident of corruption or bribery. This shows our strict adherence to ethical practices and efficiency of control mechanisms in place. Confidential Confidential 14
