Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR HEAD OFFICE Oando PLC The Wings Complex 17a Ozumba Mbadiwe Victoria Island Lagos, Nigeria www.oandoplc.com Tel: +234 1 270 2400 E-mail: info@oandoplc.com Oando PLC What’s inside Sustainability Report 2016 THE FUTURE About this Report About Oando PLC CREATING VALUE FOR 5 10 How do we manage Sustainability is how How we fit into the our risk (Risk we do business National and Global 16 22 management profile) Sustainable 20 Development Goals Our material issues Targets and Data GRI Content Index in 2016 29 66 70 2 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 3 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE About this report The Oando PLC’s (“the Company”) Sustainability Report (“the Report”) is an account of how the Company has fared on the three (3) sustainability tripods in the reporting year. The Company usually employs the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines in drafting its report. This year, the GRI standards in accordance with the Core Option was used in drafting the 2016 Report. Sustainability for the Company means fulfilling our obligations to the stakeholder, preserving the environment and impacting our society in a positive way. We know that by the nature of our business, we may contribute some negative externality, but we are committed to reducing to the barest minimum the negative externalities and going beyond the minimum expectations for positive externalities. This year our Sustainability strategy is focused on our contribution to the realization of the Sustainable Development Goals (“SDG”). We have since recognized the importance of the achievement of the sustainable goals to achieving the highest level of utility for all stakeholders thus we have aligned our 10 business strategy with the SDGs. This Report will measure how far we have aligned ourselves with the SDGs and the actions we have taken towards its realization. We have worked closely with all stakeholders, to wit, the communities, the government, our employees, and our shareholders in order to understand their concerns and how we can better champion the SDGs. This Report also highlights our actions and commitment to the United Nation Global Compact (“UNGC”) 10 principles and other developmental indices. We are also committed to obligations arising from our involvement with the Partnership against Corruption Initiative (PACI) of the World Economic Forum (WEF) and the Convention on Business Integrity (CBi). This Report also highlights our actions and commitments to the United Nation Global Compact (“UNGC”) 10 principles and other developmental indices. 4 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 5 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE About Oando Charting a path of growth 1956 Business operations commenced as a petroleum marketing company in Nigeria under the name ESSO The Company Oando is one of the largest West Africa Incorporated, a subsidiary of Exxon Corporation, USA. indigenous Companies in the oil and gas sector 1976 The Government bought ESSO’s interests and became sole owners. The Company was renamed in Africa. Through the resilience and hard work of $1.5 b Unipetrol Nigeria Limited. our people, we have continued to be pacesetters 1991 The Company became a public limited company Unipetrol Nigeria Plc – and 60% of the Company’s in the Energy industry. We have attained shareholding was sold to the public under the first phase of privatisation. numerous milestones which have positioned the 1992 The Company was listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange February 1992. Company as a leader in the Energy industry and has set us apart as the go to Company for 1994 Ocean and Oil Services Limited was founded to supply and trade petroleum products within Nigeria and worldwide. investors and the employer of choice. 1999 Unipetrol acquired 40% in Gaslink Nigeria Limited (which was increased to 51% in 2001). Where were we? 2000 Ocean & Oil, a private investment company acquired 30% controlling interest in Unipetrol Plc. Our journey as an Energy Company began in 1956 when the business started as a Petroleum marketing Company under the name ESSO West Africa Incorporated, 2002 Unipetrol acquired 60% equity in Agip Nigeria Plc. a subsidiary of Exxon Corporation, USA. In this regard, the Company has passed 2003 through different stages to emerge as it is today, including but not limited to 2014 Oando acquired Unipetrol Nigeria Plc merged with Agip Nigeria Plc and was renamed Oando Plc. incorporation, nationalization, public listing, partial privatisation in the government Conoco Phillips Nigerian 2005 controlled Unipetrol, share acquisition, mergers and divestments. business for $1.5b Oando Plc became the first African company to accomplish a cross-border inward listing on the It has been a journey to the top as a fully indigenous player in a sector that has Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE). 2007 historically been the playground of international oil companies and a challenge to stay at the top of the industry, during which we have harnessed the skills required Oando Energy Services acquired two oil drilling rigs for approximately $100 million for use in the Niger to be market leaders in the sector. Delta. For detailed information on our journey, please visit this link, 2008 Oando acquired 15% equity in OML 125 and 135, emerging as Nigeria’s first indigenous oil company with https://www.oandoplc.com/about(“OER”)us/our-journey/ interests in producing deepwater assets. The Company also acquired an additional oil drilling rig. 2009 Oando acquired two additional oil drilling rigs. 2010 Oando completed a N20 billion rights issue which was 128% subscribed. Oando also launched its first Independent Power Plant for the Lagos State Water Corporation. 2012 OER listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange. 2013 Oando completed a N54.6 billion rights issue exercise which was 101% subscribed. 2014 Oando acquired Conoco Phillips Nigerian business for $1.5b. Our subsidiary, EHGC, was sold to Seven Energy for $250m and OER successfully completed a private placement for $50m. 2015 An agreement was reached to recapitalize 60% of the downstream Helios-Vitol consortium for $461million. $250million rights issue successfully achieved. 2016 Oando delists from the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX). 6 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 7 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE About Oando What we do MIDSTREAM Up till the end of the first quarter of 2016, the Company through its subsidiary; Oando Energy Services limited provided oilfield and drilling rig services to major upstream companies operating in Nigeria. Oando Trading DMCC (OTD) is a supply and trading Company and a fully owned subsidiary of Oando. OTD Where are we? Where do we aim to be? is a key participant in the international oil markets, with a significant presence in the West African region, and UPSTREAM direct access to major energy markets across Africa We have grown to be one of the Given our experience over the years, via its office in the United Arab Emirates. foremost indigenous actors in the we have learnt from the challenges we energy industry in Africa. Not only are have faced and that propels us Oando Gas and Power continues to grow her gas and we setting standards in the oil and gas towards excellent execution in the Oando Exploration and Production division through power footprint in Nigeria and across sub Saharan sector, we are also active in the power coming years. Our outlook for the year Oando Energy Resources (“OER”) has a portfolio of Africa. Our strategy involved the deployment of sector through our subsidiary; Oando 2017 and beyond is to outperform assets at different stages of development and efficient solutions to address customers’ needs in our Gas and Power. We are the largest ourselves. Our goal is to remain the production. It is currently the holder of several Oil chosen market by leveraging our performance driven integrated energy solutions group in first choice for investors wishing to Prospecting Licenses and Oil Mining Licenses. people and the capability of our investors. Sub-Saharan Africa with primary and invest in the energy sector in Nigeria, secondary listings on the Nigerian to be valued by our people and to stock Exchange and Johannesburg seize the opportunities that enable us Stock Exchange Limited respectively. continue to shape the future of energy We delisted from the Toronto Stock in Africa. exchange in the second quarter of 2016 to align with our business strategy. 6 7 3 2 1 1 Nigeria DOWNSTREAM DOWNSTREAM 5 2 Benin Republic 3 Ghana 4 Togo South Africa Oando Terminal and Logistics is the Oando Marketing Plc (OMP), now OVH; our downstream 5 downstream infrastructure management marketing Company is a leading retailer of petroleum 6 United Kingdom Company. It combines commercial, technical products in Nigeria with operations spanning across Oando has presence in different locations around the world. Our United Arab Emirates and socio-political understanding to excel in the 7 West Africa. It has an annual distribution capacity of up to operations are currently focused on West Africa and include upstream, logistics space. two (2) billion litres and services over two hundred (200) midstream and downstream activities. We are front runners in all industrial customers cutting across major sectors in sectors of our operations. We are a transformational company with an Primary Listing NSE Nigeria, Togo and Ghana. OMP has successfully outstanding workforce that strive towards delivering the highest transited into the leading consumer brand in the standards that guarantee a brighter future. Secondary Listing JSE downstream sector in refined products, Liquefied Petroleum Gas and lubricants. 8 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 9 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE Chairman’s Statement HRM Oba Michael A. Gbadebo, CFR Convention on Business Integrity (“CBi”), the United ₦494/$1 in December 2016. These devaluations Chairman Nations Global Compact (“UNGC”), and the World significantly impacted our dollar-denominated loan Economic Forum (“WEF”). We strive to go beyond the norm portfolio. and minimum requirements of corporate governance requirements in order to give increased value to all our On a positive note, the Nigerian economy is expected to stakeholders. grow moderately by 0.8% in 2017 while a high 2016 base year will mean lower year on year inflation figures in 2017. The year 2016 marked the second full year since oil prices The 2017 budget includes ₦2.24 trillion in capital started crashing after peaking in June 2014. Brent oil prices expenditure, a 42% increase from ₦1.58 trillion in 2016, the opened at $36.61/barrel, fell to a 14-year low of $26 per infrastructure spending is expected to spur economic barrel in January 2016 before climbing slowly to average activity and lift the nation out of recession. $44 per barrel for the year after OPEC reached a deal with non-OPEC producers to implement production cuts of In executing our strategy, we have aligned our operations 1.8mbpd. with a long term strategic view by divesting from our energy services business, and partially divesting from our The Nigerian economy contracted by 1.51% in 2016, the downstream business as well as optimizing our balance first annual contraction in twenty-five (25) years mostly due sheet through a restructured ₦108 billion syndicated to the fall in oil prices; declining oil production & exports; Medium Term Loan Facility and furthering our commitment 0.8% and foreign currency shortages which raised inflation to an to the SDGs and targets we have internally set for 11-year high of 18.5% in December 2016. Due to the tough ourselves. Dear Investor, Globally, the year 2016 has operating environment businesses found themselves in, several operations were downsized or shut down entirely. Subsequently, unemployment rate which stood at 9.9% in 2015 quickly rose to 13.9% by Q3 2016. The Naira was been rife with a host of challenges such as devalued twice over the course of the year; a 41% devaluation from ₦199/$1 to ₦280/$1 in June 2016 and a the crash in commodity prices, geopolitical further devaluation from ₦290/$1 to ₦311/$1 in August HRM Oba Michael A. Gbadebo, CFR 2016 while the unofficial rate dropped to record lows of Chairman events and heightened uncertainty related to the U.S. presidential election amongst others, which impacted the global economy; creating political, economic and social tensions. While fulfilling our promise of maintaining a stable and profitable business to our The Nigerian economy is shareholders, we are increasingly aware of the role of businesses in the expected to grow moderately development of the community in which it operates. We acknowledge that a by 0.8% in 2017 business fares better when it performs well on the economic, social and environmental fronts, thus creating a win-win situation for all stakeholders; ensured profit for our shareholders, employee satisfaction, contributing socioeconomic value to our society and ensuring that we preserve the environment for balancing of the ecosystem. As business organizations are increasingly aware of global expectations to imbibe sustainable practices and corporate responsibility, we have since committed to making sustainability core to our business strategy. Likewise, we remain committed to our obligations and commitments arising from membership of several international and national organizations for the advancement of sustainable development and corporate responsibility among which are the 10 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 11 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE The Group Chief Executive’s Statement 2016 was a challenging year To reposition the Company towards sustained profitability, we divested our globally as the year began with interest in the downstream business for a transaction value of $210 million, an extended crash in oil prices. we completed the $115.8 million January 20th, 2016 saw a strategic midstream alliance in our Gas & Power Division and we also 14-year low with oil prices divested from our Energy Services business via a management buyout. crashing to $26.68 per barrel. As a result, the Company’s debt profile witnessed an impressive 60% The continuous downturn in oil reduction between the year 2015 and 2016. prices had a negative impact on global economic growth. Whilst we are focused on returning to profitability and Mr. J. A. Tinubu Sustainability is the way we do business. In The year was even more challenging for the Nigerian Oil achieving growth, it is and Gas industry and the country as a whole. The 2016, we aligned our core values to the SDGs. country recorded an estimated loss of N3.8 trillion due to imperative that we consider Group Chief Executive The SDGs are now an integral part of our a shortfall in oil production. Notwithstanding, the year how all that we do makes an business; a standard through which we 2016 ended on a more positive note as crude oil prices impact on the world around rose up to $52/per barrel in December 2016. evaluate and incorporate a majority of our us. At Oando, we aim to be business goals and practices. the trusted investment 60% During the tumultuous year, we maintained focus on our vision to be the premier company driven by excellence. vehicle, employer and At the beginning of the year we successfully embarked on some corporate strategic initiatives that would ensure partner of choice within the profitability by the end of the year, with the overall aim of energy industry. creating value for our shareholders. We believe that what is good for people, society and the planet is good for business and as a business focused on the energy sector, we share the important responsibility of aligning our interests with the greater good of the country and our society. Thus, we are committed to creating value for our shareholders, whilst providing clean and affordable energy, enabling global economic growth and positively impacting the lives and communities around us. the Company’s debt profile witnessed an impressive 60% reduction between the year 2015 and 2016. 12 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 13 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE The Group Chief Executive’s Statement continued 16k In fulfilling these responsibilities, we are guided by the “Oando Way”. Our mission, vision and strong corporate culture is centred Professionalism (TRIPP). on our shared values of Teamwork, Respect, Integrity, Passion and T eamwork Teamwork: Everyday, our people are driven to work In 2016, over 16,000 out-oftogether towards actualising the R espect school children were enrolled organisation’s common goals and core values. into Oando adopted schools Respect: We encourage that consideration is shown to all colleagues. By appreciating the worth of others and valuing their I ntegrity contributions, productivity is improved, and a work friendly At Oando, the SDGs are embedded ethical conduct, peace, justice and environment is created. throughout our corporate strategy, we strong institutions. We take this continually strive towards being an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment organization that creates pioneering to the ten (10) principles of the UNGC business opportunities delivering and the values of the CBi. We would Integrity: Reliability, honesty, decent work and economic growth, continue to uphold and support the and trustworthiness are integral industry, innovation and infrastructure WEF in a joint effort to promote global to all business dealings and and social development that governance, anti-corruption, business P rofessionalism employees’ interpersonal accelerates the building of sustainable integrity and sustainable development. relationships. cities and communities in Africa. The world is facing increasingly Through the Oando Foundation, the difficult challenges including hunger, Company is transforming lives and inequality, poverty, inadequate access positively impacting the Nigerian to quality education, amongst others. Professionalism: Proper education sector. In 2016, over 16,000 To overcome these challenges, we conduct by all employees is a out-of-school children were enrolled must all play our part as corporate critical component for our into Oando adopted schools, 549 organisations. We must all come P assion achievement of business scholarships were awarded to pupils, together and agree on a common excellence. 1608 teachers and 107 head purpose and direction with a focus on teachers/assistants were trained what is most important our future. across 49 adopted schools and 8 solar-powered ICT centers were deployed to support technologyPassion: At Oando, we perform based education across the country. our tasks with enthusiasm and vigor, with an underlying zeal to We remain committed to the principles and policies of national and Jubril Adewale Tinubu always perform at an international initiatives that promote Group Chief Executive extraordinary level. 14 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 15 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE Oando Group Risk Management Profile S/N TOP RISKS DETAILS AND MITIGATION CONTROLS FOR TOP RISKS S/N TOP RISKS DETAILS AND MITIGATION CONTROLS FOR TOP RISKS 1 Liquidity Risk A key risk to the group’s survival is its liquidity. This risk crystallized in some instances and 3 Reputational Risk Media attention was much greater within the reporting period due to late financial reporting resulted in the inability of the Company to meet its financial obligation to some incidences to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Nigerian Stock counterparties as and when they fell due. Exchange (“NSE”). Mitigating Measures Late rendition of taxes and tax warning letters. To mitigate the effect, the Group embarked on an aggressive restructuring of its balance sheet through board and shareholder approved divestments, loan restructuring and new The increased scrutiny on corporate behavior had the potential to increase the Company’s capital raising programs. The current divestment strategies will provide the opportunity to vulnerability. focus on the upstream business and raise the required capital to repair the balance sheet. Mitigating Measures The Treasury Manager estimates the current liquidity requirements and ability of the • This risk was managed by developing a proactive stakeholder’s communication strategy Company to meet future obligations on a weekly basis. In addition, cash flow is also and by carefully monitoring and reporting on the achievement of targets. monitored on a weekly basis. This involves comparisons with forecasts, investigation of • There is significant engagement with the tax authorities on outstanding taxes. We agreed differences, and identification of changes in cash flow requirements. on a payment plan for certain tax liabilities and the plan is being followed. In the preparation of project plans and models, the Corporate finance manager carries out • Our corporate Communications department also had a crisis management plan in place stress testing on assumptions used in preparing the project model including inflation, which focused on proactively managing the Company’s stakeholders and providing interest rate and exchange rate simulation and develops scenario based hurdle rates for agile responses to negative press. investment decisions. This ensures that the Company is aware of and adequately prepared to handle inflation, interest and exchange rate fluctuations. 4 Regulation & Failure to comply with the provisions of the UK Bribery Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices The Company has a formal Contingency Funding Plan that clearly sets out the strategies for Regulatory Risk Act (FCPA), third party due-diligence risks inherent in capital raising transactions and addressing liquidity shortfalls in emergency situations. The contingency plan includes dealings with third parties in high-risk jurisdictions where the Company predominantly contingency overdraft lines with banks and a cushion of unencumbered, high quality liquid operates. assets to be held as a buffer for liquidity stress situations. The risk of sanctions from the NSE, SEC, Johannesburg Stock Exchange (“JSE”) and the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) for non-compliance with listing requirements; Changes in 2 Macroeconomic Upstream business legislation (or other legislation) in one of the multiple jurisdictions where the Company has a Volatility in oil and gas prices remains a high risk. Some stability has been seen at $45 but presence; all had the potential to threaten the advantages derived from our organizational this is still below our breakeven price of $65. The resultant effect: and business structure within the reporting period. • Impacts our ability to service debts and other counterparty obligations. • Affects our ability to achieve our short to medium term production and profit targets Sanctions from the TSX for non-compliance with tax requirements (unpaid taxes). • Means a downward valuation of Company assets. Delays in concluding and publishing the 2015 financial statements. Mitigating Measures Mitigating Measures • Maintained the crude price hedge to preserve the value of our investment and • The Company continually strengthened its Compliance Department to ensure that there continued to review for appropriateness and sufficiency. Management continued to take was adequate coverage for all the jurisdictions in which it had significant presence. advantage of this opportunity to pay down loans utilising the hedge differentials. • Management ensured significant engagement with the tax authorities on outstanding • Strategic reduction of operational expenses and reprioritization of work program to taxes. reduce capex spend and joint venture funding. • Specialist country lawyers were also engaged to proactively identify and implement all • Loan restructuring initiatives at the Group and upstream subsidiary levels. Medium term necessary changes with respect to regulatory requirements in all the jurisdictions where loan restructured, Termed out loan repayments over 5 years and reduction of coupon the Company has significant presence. rate from 20% p.a. to 15% p.a. The restructured Medium Term Loan (MTL) was • Ensured awareness of and compliance with TSX requirements is up-to-date. executed in June 2016. • Strategic realignment with JV partners to ensure production optimization in the short to medium term. 16 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 17 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE Oando Group Risk Management Profile continued S/N TOP RISKS DETAILS AND MITIGATION CONTROLS FOR TOP RISKS S/N TOP RISKS DETAILS AND MITIGATION CONTROLS FOR TOP RISKS 5 Strategic and The risks of current or prospective negative impact on the group’s earnings, profitability, 8 Financial Reporting Given the size and complexity of the group structure and the limitation of the group's Business Model capital base and reputation arising from a selection of inappropriate business strategies. Risk reporting application, there is a risk that as the Group grows and subsidiaries increase in Risk number, there may be inaccuracies in its reporting and a risk of misleading the investing public. Mitigating Measures To mitigate this risk, the Oando Opportunity Realization Process was instituted and Controls implemented for the screening of potential and ongoing business opportunities. 1. The Financial Statements, notes and disclosures prepared by the Finance Manager are reviewed by the Group Financial Controller along with the completed IFRS disclosure Continuous management reviews of business processes were carried out to identify areas checklist to ensure all areas requiring disclosures have been adequately covered before for strategic improvement. approval. Opportunities for diversification of businesses were sought where it appeared that a 2. The Group Financial Controller reviews key financial reports to verify that the particular model no longer held the capacity or potential to provide the anticipated value to consolidated balances, after applying elimination entries, are correct (for example: interthe Company. company accounts are zero). Identified errors are discussed with the Finance Managers and corrected as necessary. Operational reviews also took place for proper project evaluation. 3. Internal and External Audit review the Financial Statements. The Audit committee also meets quarterly to review the Interim Financial Statements and the full year-end report. 6 Business Partner Delays in the payment of cash calls by the government impacting negatively on the and Joint Venture operator’s ability to pay down receivables within contractual terms, thereby exposing the Risk Company to the risk of default on JV obligations to third parties. The lack of operational control portended to expose the Group to joint venture partners who could take decisions that were not congruent with the Group’s strategy. Mitigating Measures During the year, the NNPC entered into a repayment agreement with all of its JV partners with respect to cash call arrears to ensure a planned systematic repayment of NNPC’s total outstanding debt. The Company continued to use the right resource mix, recruit experienced hands across all departments with a clear focus on partner management via the various asset managers. 7 Business Continuity The Company may not be able to recover its data or continue its day-to-day business & Disaster Recovery activities in the event that there is business interruption due to natural disaster, fire, cyberRisk attack, etc. Controls 1. Vital Company information is stored centrally in electronic format. All staff documents on local laptops are automatically backed up on the Company’s server. 2. Existence of a disaster recovery policy and plan that is updated regularly 3. The Company has a backup server and the disaster Recovery site has been relocated from the current high-risk area to a lower risk area with 99.9% uptime. 18 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 19 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE Sustainability is how we do business How we do business T eamwork OUR CORE VALUES Oando’s core values of Teamwork, Respect, Oando is an indigenous energy The activities that the Company undertakes are such that they have an impact on the environment and communities company involved in the R espect Integrity, Passion and Professionalism where it operates. However, Oando has always made concerted efforts to reduce to the barest minimum, its business of exploration, negative externalities and to contribute positively to the production, logistics and services communities where it operates. underpins our business strategy and in the energy sector, marketing of I ntegrity sustainability drives. We do not only believe in With the launch of the SDGs, it became imperative for governments and non-governmental institutions of which petroleum, liquefied natural gas, P assion businesses are a part to go back to the drawing board. our core values internally but we exhibit them lubricants and other energy In view of this development, the Company had to re-strategize on how it intends to do business. Being in relations with our customers, vendors, products. We are also involved in P rofessionalism mindful of the importance of achieving development and growth on the tenets of the triple bottom-line of regulators and other third parties. We make it electricity generation through our sustainability, we have fashioned our business plans to mandatory for vendors to align with our core gas to power subsidiary. meet our obligations to our shareholders and employees who are the key drivers of our corporate goals, engage and work with our host communities, ensure our activities values in dealing with the Company and other leave the barest footprint on the environment and align with the government’s commitment to the sustainable subcontractors they engage. development goals. We remain committed to transparency, stakeholder Teamwork each person recognizes his strengths and weaknesses, and engagement, and continuous improvement in our acknowledges their part in working together to collectively achieve the most approach to sustainability and its reportage. effective and efficient results in advancement of the businesses’ growth and development. We actively collaborate with government and non-governmental organizations in partnerships for the SDG goals. Respect each employee does not think himself more important than the other, but a member of a whole that functions optimally when each party is appreciated for its input. We promote gender equality and inclusiveness. Integrity at Oando, we recognize the importance of honesty, openness and hard work. We imbibe it in all our dealings within the organization and all stakeholder engagements. We also make integrity a prerequisite for engaging vendors. Our Governance Office continually champion policies and trainings that advocate anti-corruption, transparency and best corporate practices both within the organization and in the Energy industry. Passion we have a dynamic group of staff who are passionate about the business and its corporate goals. We involve our employees in the strategy and corporate goal setting for the business thus, it is a self-driven process. We are also passionate about development of the local communities in which we operate, hence the continued engagement of local communities through our Oando Foundation. Professionalism our employees and partners are equipped to, with the necessary knowledge and skill, make informed decisions on the Company’s business and commitments. We have one of the best crop of experts in the industry who help us to make the best decisions on profitmaking while fulfilling our social obligations and maintaining a balanced eco-system. 20 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 21 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How we fit into the Global and National Sustainable Development Goals Agenda Nigeria’s vision for achieving the SDGs are: • To leave no one behind • To integrate the SDGs in an inclusive and people-centered manner • Focus on strengthening institutions through advocating for quality policies and practical interventions through partnerships with government and civil society. As Africa’s largest integrated energy solutions Company, we recognize that the SDGs are the global priority for the next 14 years. Understanding our role as a vital partner in achieving the SDGs nationally and globally, we have made it our responsibility to begin implementing it as the overarching framework through which we shape, communicate and report our strategies, goals and activities as a business. We understand that effective communication and cooperation across governmental and other international institutions as well as between businesses and individuals is the only way that the SDGs can be successfully implemented. We have focused on highlighting the significant SDGs that are relevant to our businesses in order to make a positive difference in our society, economy and environment. The most amazing feature of the SDGs however is the observed interconnectivity of them all. We have discovered that when focusing on the targets of one goal, we are simultaneously addressing some of the targets of another goal. We are currently specifically focused on some of the following goals and their correspondent targets: Education (SDG 4) – We realized that for more sustainable development to take place within our operational areas, social capital has to be developed. Consequently, in 2016 we invested in quality education and awarded 2,702 scholarships/bursaries to students in Primary, post Primary and Tertiary institutions at a cost of N145.56m, provided educational infrastructure and donated to various schools in the Niger Delta to the tune of about N114.23m. Some of the projects embarked upon are: • Construction of a six-classroom block at Silga Local Government Area (“LGA”) of Bayelsa State • Construction of Teachers' Quarters at Nembe LGA of Bayelsa State • Construction of a Science Block at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State In 2015, the world took a bold step towards ending poverty, fighting inequality • Construction of a Lawn tennis court at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State • Construction of a Badminton hall & Volley ball Court at Silga LGA of Bayelsa and injustice, tackling climate change and a host of other complex global State challenges by the year 2030 through the medium officially known as “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” • Craft Centre building at Awelga LGA of Rivers State • Construction of a standard Teachers' Quarters at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State • Construction of a Six Classroom block at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State or simply put, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As part of plans to • Construction of a Six Classroom block at Emadike at Ogbia LGA of Bayelsa State achieve the SDGs by 2030, states are required to make regulations and • Completion of a Six Classroom block at Tuburu at Yenogoa, Bayelsa State • Construction of a Six Classroom Block at Ekeremor LGA of Bayelsa State formulate policies for the achievement of the goals. The global vision is to • Completion of a Science block at Idu Obosiukwu community at Onelga LGA of improve livelihoods and protect the planet for future generations and realize the Rivers State • Construction of Science block at Ogbia LGA of Bayelsa State future we want. • Principal and Teachers’ quarters in Ndokwa East, Delta State. 22 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 23 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How we fit into the Global and National Sustainable Development Goals Agenda continued Inclusion and participation: (SDG 10 & 11) Provision of infrastructure for certain Electrification Projects (SDG7): Various electrification projects were executed in communities was another initiative that received attention in 2016. These 2016. The projects involved procurement of Heavy industrial CAT generating sets, infrastructure projects provided the communities with a conducive environment for construction of Generator houses, construction of HT/LT lines, procurement of members of the communities to handle their socio-cultural affairs. Community Town Transformers and in some cases connection of the communities to the flow-station halls/ Civic centers, public conveniences and market stalls were built and handed power grid. over to the communities at a cost of about N425.7m. Some of these projects are: The electrification projects provided an affordable energy source to the rural • Construction of Town hall at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State dwellers. It also helped to create more job opportunities, boosted several small and • Construction of Guests room in Multi-purpose Civic Centre at Silga LGA of medium-sized Enterprises, improved security within the environment and Bayelsa State contributed positively to climate change due to a decrease in the use of firewood • Construction of Egbema community Civic Centre building at Onelga LGA of as a source of light and energy. Generally there was improved quality of life for Rivers State members of the communities. The sum of N870.3m was spent in various • Construction of Open market stall block A and “B” at Silga LGA of Bayelsa electrification projects. Some of the projects embarked on include: State • Construction of Lock up market stall block A and “B” at Silga LGA of Bayelsa • Umusadege electrification upgrade at Ndokwa West LGA of Delta State State • Electrification of Kpongbokiri community at Brass LGA of Bayelsa State • Sand filling / concrete flooring of market site at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State • Procurement /installation of 810 kva (CAT) Prime rated generator with generator • Modern Civic Centre at Ndokwa East LGA of Delta State house at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State • Town hall at Nembe LGA of Bayelsa State • Procurement and installation of 2.5mva injection substation at Isoko LGA of 4 • Construction of one Standard town hall (converted to police post) at Omoku at Delta State Onelga LGA of Rivers State • Construction of HT/LT lines and installation of 2 new 500kva transformer at • Construction of Omoku Community Modern market Onelga LGA of Rivers State Isoko South LGA of Delta State • Installation of existing 2.5mva transformer at Isoko South LGA of Delta State Water project (SDG6): Clean, accessible water for all is one of the SDG goals. The Company realizes that majority of its communities are situated in the rural areas and draw their main sources of water from the stream, rivers, and ponds. In other to provide clean and potable water for inhabitants of the communities various water projects were executed. A typical full bouquet of water project executed included a bore hole, Generator, Generator house and a mini treatment plant. The execution of portable clean and accessible water projects has helped to reduce water borne diseases, improved sanitation and hygiene. For 2016 the sum of N153.08m was spent on below water projects: • Construction of a 20,000 Gallon water scheme at Onelga LGA of Rivers State • Construction of Mini water scheme in Agbidiama community at Ekeermor LGA of Bayelsa State • Construction of Water scheme with treatment plant, generator house/supply of A total of 4 community Town generator at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State • Completion of a mini water scheme with treatment plant at Nembe LGA of halls/ Civic centers, public Bayelsa State conveniences and market • Completion of a mini water scheme with treatment plant at Agrisaba community stalls were built at Nembe LGA of Bayelsa State • Reconstruction of Okigbene water scheme at Nembe LGA of Bayelsa State • Construction of Water scheme at Twon Brass, Phase 2 at Brass LGA of Bayelsa State • Construction of Omoku Integrated water scheme at Onelga LGA of Rivers State • Completion of Twelve Public Convenience at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State 24 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 25 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How we fit into the Global and National Sustainable Development Goals Agenda continued Road Construction (SDG 9). In realization of the need for infrastructural development in line with SDG9, network of roads were constructed within the communities to ease the challenges of movement of goods and services. These roads in addition created some levels of social and economic comfort and mobility especially for communities within the swampy terrain. Movement within N119.62m the communities became less difficult while economies thrived due to better means of transportation for farm produce. During the period under review the Company constructed a total of 19 Asphalt and Concrete roads with drains. This covered about 15.2km and cost more than N1.063b to execute. Construction of these roads created a huge relief to the communities. Some of the projects embarked upon are: • Construction of 1km concrete road and pavement at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State In 2016 the sum of N119. • Construction of Aboh community road phase I (Osowu and Odili streets) at 62m was spent on Health care Ndokwa East LGA of Delta State • Construction of Aboh community road phase II (Akpanuka, Ogbogene, & Obi Enebeli streets) Ndokwa East LGA of Delta State • Construction of 500m Emata road and drainage in Oleh community at Isoko South LGA of Delta State • Construction of 130m (Edhouno lane) and one side drainage at Isoko South LGA of Delta State • Construction of 330m Ikpekri road & side drainage at Isoko South LGA of Delta State • 1km concrete road & drain at Nembe LGA of Bayelsa State • Concrete landing jetty at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State • Construction of 1km road and drain at Awelga LGA of Rivers State • Construction of 500m road and one side drainage at Otokwe street at Isoko Health Care project (SDG3): Keeping the people healthy means providing basic South LGA of Delta State • Construction of 1km concrete road & drainage at Brass LGA of Bayelsa health care services and infrastructure for members of the communities we have State adopted. We realized that for health centers within the communities to function • Construction of 700m concrete road and drains at Silga LGA of Bayelsa optimally, proper infrastructure had to be provided. Consequently Health care State centers were built with full components of Doctors and Nurses quarters, Pharmacy • Completion of 1km concrete road & drainage at Nembe LGA of Bayelsa bay, Mini water schemes, Generator for power, mini operating theaters and State recreational facilities. These enhanced infrastructure have now attracted and • Completion of 2.4km concrete road drains at Ekeremor LGA of Bayelsa State retained qualified medical professionals in most of our rural communities. Life • Construction of 1km concrete road & drain at Nembe LGA of Bayelsa State expectancy has increased as sick members of the communities are now promptly • 510m roads & drain (Omoge & Zeeno) at Isoko South LGA of Delta State attended to in the community hospital/health centers rather than having to travel • 510m roads & drain (Ugiriama & Ekregbo) at Isoko south LGA of Delta State long distances to the cities for basic medical attention. In 2016 the sum of N119. • 45m span reinforcement concrete bridge at Ogbia Local Government Area 62m was spent on health care as enumerated below: of Bayelsa State • Construction of doctors' & nurses' Quarters at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State • Construction of health centre main building and fence at Silga LGA of Bayelsa State • Completion of health centre main building and fence, doctors’ and nurses' quarters at Nembe LGA of Bayelsa State • Construction of a health centre at Nembe LGA of Bayelsa State • Construction of a health centre at Obigbor at Onelga LGA of Rivers State • Construction of Obigbor health centre mini water scheme at Onelga LGA of Rivers State • Provision of water treatment plant & a standby generator at Obigbor mini water scheme Health Centre Onelga LGA of Rivers State 26 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 27 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE 14 Our material issues in 2016 yrs We ensured that our issues of importance were in alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals which are the global priorities for the next 14 years. Our material issues for this report have been identified on the basis of their relevance and significance to our business. We ensured that our issues of importance were in alignment with the Sustainable Development Goals which are the global priorities for the next 14 years. We have identified our material issues in accordance with the specific targets of the SDGs to which we contribute to. Economic Social Environment Creating Value Developing our People Protecting our We believe in hiring, developing Environment Our goal to continuously give value to our stakeholders remains the and retaining a steady stream of Our environmental management same. We aim to provide our seasoned and talented practices are based on the principle investors and shareholders with a professionals in the industry. of deriving benefits from our natural good return on their investment. We Investing in the development of our resources whilst doing the least work to maintain a healthy balance human capital is a key priority. We harm possible. We understand that in meeting our business obligations ensure that we hire the right people our core activities possess the and creating value whilst for the job and continue to provide inherent risk of damage to the considering the interests of all our career development opportunities environment, this is further stakeholders including our for capacity development and complicated by the threat of employees, host communities, experience. sabotage, oil theft, vandalism etc. Government and Regulators. We therefore continue to develop systems and solutions that monitor Related SDGs: our practices and operations in Related SDGs: SDG 8 Decent Work and order to prevent the crystallization of SDG 8 Decent work and environmental risks inherent in our SDG 5 Gender Equality Economic Growth operations. SDG 9 Reduced inequality SDG 9 Reduced Inequalities economic growth SDG 17 Partnerships to achieve Related SDGs: SDG 13 Climate Action the Goal SDG 14 Life below water SDG 15 Life on Land 28 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 29 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE Our material issues in 2016 continued Economic Social Environment Social Maximising our Workforce Wellness, Water, Gas Flaring, Workforce Wellness, Access to Basic Opportunities Motivation and Air Quality Motivation and Education The volatile business landscape in Empowerment A key aspect of monitoring our Empowerment The Oando Foundation supports the oil and gas sector creates impact on the environment centers the Federal Government of Nigeria Our goal is to be the employer of Our goal is to be the employer of numerous risks and opportunities. on our utilization of natural in the achievement of its Universal choice. To achieve this goal we resources and the consequent choice. To achieve this goal we We ensure that we adapt to the ensure that we maintain a safe, ensure that we maintain a safe, Basic Education (UBE) goals which changes and develop innovative outputs such as effluents and include the eradication of illiteracy, secure and healthy working discharges into water bodies, land secure and healthy working ideas which enable us identify and environment for our employees. We environment for our employees. We poverty and other priorities. In maximize the opportunities and the atmosphere. We continue addition, the Foundation prioritises design programs, initiatives and to remain well within regulatory design programs, initiatives and occasioned by these changes activities that promote health, activities that promote health, other development issues such as such as the drive for increased standards and limits relating to education of the girl child and wellbeing, safety and security for water conservation, air pollution and wellbeing, safety and security for local participation in our sector. our employees both at work and in our employees both at work and in sanitation in our adopted schools. Adequately harnessing these other environmental indicators. their personal lives. In addition, we their personal lives. In addition, we Related SDGs: attributes will enable us increase believe in providing the believe in providing the Related SDGs: SDG 4 Quality Education our productivity and income. appropriate remuneration that appropriate remuneration that would enable them sustain their SDG 13 Climate Action would enable them sustain their SDG 5 Gender Equality Related SDGs: passion for work and SDG 14 Life below water passion for work and SDG 6 Clean Water & Sanitation SDG 8 Decent work and consequently, their productivity consequently, their productivity SDG 9 Reduced inequality economic growth Related SDGs: Related SDGs: SDG 8 Decent Work and SDG 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth Economic Growth 4 Building Sustainable Waste Management Communities With the objective of preventing Our host communities are vital pollution, we continue to ensure proper management of waste partners to our business. The generated from our operations development of our host through the 4R’s waste communities are a major priority to management technique Reduce, our operations. We actively Reuse, Recycle and Recover. collaborate with our host communities to meet our mutual current needs, without destroying Related SDGs: the environment and adversely SDG 12 Responsible affecting the ability of future consumption and generations to meet their needs as SDG 13 Climate Action Production A total of 4 community Town well. SDG 15 Life on Land halls/ Civic centers, public Related SDGs: conveniences and market SDG 11 Sustainable Cities and stalls were built Communities 30 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 31 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS (SDG 16) PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS (SDG 16) Shareholders The full details of the composition and responsibilities of The role of shareholders within the Oando Governance our board of directors are discussed extensively in the Governance Framework is to appoint the directors and the auditors. 2016 Annual Report (pages 32-40) and information on the The Board of directors (“the board”) and management of Board Committees can be found on paged 42-44 of the Good corporate governance allows efficient and effective operation and the Company as a whole, are accountable to the 2016 Annual Report. management of the Company in the interest of all stakeholders. Group Leadership Council shareholders and must ensure that the shareholders are satisfied and more importantly impressed with the At Oando, we believe that long term profitability and effective governance structure and standards in place. The Group Leadership Council (GLC) of Oando is sustainability of the business can only be achieved through composed of top-level management who provide The Board of Directors executive direction on the day-to-day administration of the adequate governance structures and processes which The Board has the ultimate authority, responsibility and Company, effectively managing our talents and resources identify the distribution of rights and responsibilities within the accountability for the Company. A range of significant for the achievement of our strategic objectives. A detailed Company. decisions are specifically reserved for the Board in order explanation of composition and responsibilities of our GLC to ensure that it retains proper and adequate control and members can be found in our previous 2015 Sustainability direction of the Company. Such decisions are labelledReport. By upholding key fundamental principles of corporate governance best practice, Governance Initiatives and Policies The Schedule of Matters Reserved for the board, which we believe that we can maintain a corporate culture of Teamwork, Respect, include but are not limited to the following: Integrity, Passion and Professionalism which in turn promotes openness, • Strategy and Objectives • Anti-Corruption Policy transparency and sustainability in our management, operations and decision• Business plan and budgets • Blacklisting Policy making processes. • Changes in capital and corporate structure • Board Appointment Process Our Governance Framework • Accounting policies and financial reporting • Corporate Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Internal controls • Delegation of Authority As stated in our preceding reports, the development of the Oando Group • Major contracts • Dividend Policy Governance Framework was based on a consideration of the UK Corporate • Capital projects • Environmental, Health, Safety and Security Policy Governance Framework, South Africa’s King Report on corporate Governance • Acquisitions and disposals • Gifts and Benefits Policy (King III), the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance and the SEC Code of • Communications with shareholders • Information Disclosure Policy Corporate Governance for Public Companies in Nigeria. We ensure that our • Board membership • Insider Trading Policy Governance structure is in compliance with the Company’s Article of • Know Your Customer Policy Association, the Companies and Allied Matters Act, Cap C20 and Laws of the The Board also maintains the authority to delegate some • Matters Reserved for the Board federation of Nigeria. of these decision-making functions to the Executive • Records Management Policy Directors who are responsible for the day-today running of • Related Party Policies the business activities. • Remuneration Policy • Staff Handbook In accordance with global governance best • Whistle Blowing Policy and hotline • Complaints Management Policy practice, the offices of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by two separate Our Governance Practices individuals. We are certain that the long–term sustainability and continuity of our business is directly linked to our corporate governance practices. Through our governance practices we are able to effectively monitor and control the day-to-day running of our business, as well as the decision making processes that influence our overall business objectives, corporate strategy and culture. The governing bodies within our organization have set up structures, clearly defining the guidelines, policies and procedures that demonstrate the acceptable limits for proper conduct of all the Company’s business operations. 32 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 33 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? How far have we come? continued PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS (SDG 16) INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE (SDG 9) During the reporting year, the IT department focused on unlocking the value of information whilst harnessing technology to continue to deliver lower cost efficient, usable and secure services. The year also saw IT adopt a more strategic approach to governance and risk management in response to the new era of low oil price. Although the use of technology was aligned to business realities, the continuously changing business expectations was met with the inclusion of diverse and bespoke service offerings and the adoption of a more flexible operating architecture model. Some of the notable strategic initiatives completed include the following: INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND • Cost Containment Initiative: Optimization and INFRASTRUCTURE (SDG 9) rationalization of technology use, through business process reengineering to drive operational efficiency. • Selection and commencement of the implementation of EMPLOYING TECHNOLOGY AS A TOOL a financial reporting and management solution FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF OUR GOALS • Implementation of technology acceptable policies to guarantee resource control whilst meeting our profit Business Integrity protection mandate. Executive Summary • Risk and Cyber-resilience Assessment: Continuous At Oando, we are guided by the fundamental principles of Technology adoption is driving business growth and Vulnerability assessment of IT Infrastructure, followed business integrity. We observe the highest standards of innovation in Nigeria. Innovation results in the deployment by 75% implementation of identified improvement business ethics and moral principles that guide our of smarter applications, improved data storage, faster opportunities. practices, policies and operations. We ensure strict processing and wider information distribution. Oando is • Company-wide security education: a continuous adherence to the Oando Code of Business Conduct and committed to using Information Technology (“IT”) to drive initiative aimed at creating the right cyber threat Ethics (the Code) which serves as a moral and ethical We are committed to the global fight against innovation to ensure the business runs more efficiently awareness amongst employees and other stakeholders compass for all employees, as well as directors. The corruption, we actively participate in this IT Management Approach while increasing value, enhancing quality and boosting Oando Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is fight through our membership and active productivity. applicable to all Directors, Managers, Employees and The IT department has rebuilt its operations, referencing those who work for or on behalf of Oando or any of its participation in local and international global service delivery standards, security and business subsidiaries. organisations. We are members of the The Company is aware of the importance of continuity frameworks (such as ITIL, ISO20000 and Partnering against Corruption Initiative technology, technological innovation and ISO27001), in ensuring that all business strategic intents Anti-corruption is a major aspect of our (PACI) of the World Economic Forum, The advancement to inclusive and sustainable are met. Code, Oando is opposed to all forms of United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) development. Hence, we have fashioned This very pragmatic approach is guided by a governance corruption. Our anti-corruption program is and the Convention on Business Integrity. our IT policies and processes to enhance structure that includes the IT steering committee, a hybrid tailored towards compliance with applicable development through, easy to use (co-sourced) organizational structure, delivering on imperatives that will: laws and regulations whilst providing To maintain a strong ethical culture within the processes/gadgets for employees, robust • Give users access to the right information when they training and actively monitoring progress on organization, we ensure that new entrants are trained on waste management policy on IT products, need it; key issues such as money laundering, the Company’s policies and practices through a enhanced access to information, upgrade • Provide the right tools and technology systems compliance on-boarding process. All directors and structured to the needs of users; insider training, related party transactions employees are required to participate in an annual of information systems, researches on how • Deliver good quality services that can be relied upon and other key policies. recertification exercise which involves a refresher course to employ information technology for the with complete cost transparency; on our values, governance policies and anti-corruption smooth running of our business and • Deliver technology services based on a return on principles. Participants are then tested after which investment (“ROI”) that makes business sense; Our Governance officers are responsible for monitoring certificates of compliance are generated for all who pass technology for the safety of people and • Make available integrated systems that are scalable, and reporting on the extent to which our ethics and antithe test. machineries in our places of operation. reliable, and conform to appropriate standards; corruption policies are integrated into our business • Increase visibility and recognition of the Company as a activities and adhered to by employees and directors, to A periodic newsletter called The “Ethics Watch” bulletin is leader in the energy sector. ensure that we self-correct and make improvements published and circulated to all employees and business where necessary, so that we may maintain our strong partners to educate them on different ethical and stance on anti-corruption. compliance issues whilst promoting a culture of ‘doing the right thing even when no one is watching’. 34 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 35 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE (SDG 9) With a steering committee constituted to oversee and ensure technology investments yield the right ROI, the IT function IV. Goals and Targets leverages an operating model depicted by the diagram below: Leverage Existing IT: Leverage existing information technology and expertise to maximize investments and reduce costs. Foster New and Emerging IT: Identify and foster new and emerging information technology to maximize &RUSRUDWH9LVLRQ ,79LVLRQ0LVVLRQ mission accomplishment and reduce costs. 0LVVLRQ 9DOXHV ,PSHUDWLYHV IT Governance, Policy, and Oversight Processes: Provide Departmental IT governance, policy, and oversight processes to ensure secure, efficient, and cost effective use of it resources. *URXS6WUDWHJ\ Risk-Based Cybersecurity: Strengthen enterprise situational awareness to foster near-real-time risk management and combat the advanced persistent threat; forge interagency and sector partnerships to protect critical infrastructure, promote information (QWLW\6WUDWHJ\ sharing, and advance technologies for cyber VIII. Processes, Projects, Programs and Initiatives defenses. V. Responsibilities • IT Security awareness sessions conducted for all ,76WUDWHJLF The Company’s IT team are a group of professionals departments across the Company with focus on who specialize in various disciplines within the field of Social Engineering and Information Security 3ODQ • The Do It Yourself (“DIY”) campaign ran all through IT providing advice and expertise on IT strategy, &RUSRUDWH (QWLW\ infrastructure, design, building, and maintenance the year to improve the productivity of users and within the organization. equip them with the right knowledge to do their work 2EMHFWLYHV 2EMHFWLYHV better VI. Resources • Campaign about ransomware also ran to improve People constitute a key part of the resources and user awareness and prevent loss of critical data capabilities required to deliver quality IT services to • A customer Satisfaction survey was carried out to the business. drive continuous service improvement 8QLW,QGLYLGXDO 2EMHFWLYHV EVALUATION OF IT MANAGEMENT APPROACH The roles include; • Chief Strategy Officer • Head, IT On a bi-annual basis, IT Management’s approach to • Service Delivery Manager information systems is subject to an audit exercise to • Business Applications Manager identify gaps in current procedures and processes, report • Security Lead to executive management and monitor corrective actions • Administrators till closure. • Application Developers I. IT Planning Process • End User Support Service management. The policy takes into This biannual Audit of IT Management approach leads to; • Helpdesk The planning process maintains a direct line of sight cognizance the industry the Company operates in and • Closure of identified gaps with the business, and is periodically recalibrated to how technology will be utilized to support its broad VII. Grievance mechanisms (i.e. Helpdesk) • Updated processes and procedures establish, plan, execute and monitor performance. As objectives. Adherence to the policy safeguards the The Helpdesk is a functional unit made up of a • Policy amendment depicted below, a corporate view of the technology integrity, confidentiality and availability of Oando dedicated number of staff responsible for dealing with • Updated Risk register CSAT imperatives and performance measures are information a variety of service events, often made via telephone III. Commitments developed through a direct feed from the business Executive Summary calls, emails or automatically reported by strategic objectives. infrastructure events. The Information Technology team is committed to II. Policies ensuring the Company leverages on Technology The Helpdesk serves as a single point of contact for The 2016 customer satisfaction survey of Information The policy manual (“the manual”) establishes the IT deployed appropriately to achieve competitive Technology & Services (“IT&S”) was conducted to users to report service disruptions or degradations, achieve the following objectives; policies and guidelines required for appropriately advantage, increase market share, improve quality request for IT service, resolve incidents, fulfil requests identifying information resources and business and drive efficiency through automation of manual • To ascertain the quality of IT&S services being etc. rendered to its customers, requirements while ensuring that these are effectively processes. protected. The policy also stipulates IT Service • To get feedback from its customers on their satisfaction They also provide a point of coordination for IT groups levels Operation guidelines and requirements to govern IT and processes with the ownership of incidents/ • To identify areas of improvement. requests through its lifecycle. 36 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 37 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE (SDG 9) A total of 93 respondents representing 45% of the expected respondents took SUMMARY OF FINDINGS OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Organizational Profile part in this year’s C-SAT survey with a satisfaction level of 75%. The survey ran On the overall, the following were the findings that were for a duration of three weeks. An anonymous model was adopted to encourage gathered from the survey; sincerity in user feedback. The supply chain unit is charged with the responsibility of • Users require more engagement from the Business actualizing business goals by providing human, material THE QUESTIONNAIRE Information Coordinators (BICs) and Productivity logistics and business support services. These activities Coaches (PCs) cover office administration, procurement, facility A total of 14 questions that covered IT&S operations and service delivery model • There is room for improvement in the inventory management, fleet management and travel management. as listed below were covered within the questionnaire: management to ensure better system performance • Service Desk operations • The IT&S level agreements (“SLA”) not known by all The activities listed above impact directly on the various • Applications users. areas of sustainable business practices such as the • Network and Communications • Productivity coaching program effective but not widely environment and socio-economic activities. • Collaboration reached across the entire organization, one-on-one 75 • Business led-IT Collaboration. engagement not very effective and limited curriculum to The Governance and Nominations THE RESULT address a wide range of audience. Committee is responsible for the review REVIEWS AND AUDITS % Overall, there was a 75% satisfaction level, whilst, 23% of respondents believed and approval of Related Party the service rendered  was fair, this provides an opportunity to increase transactions at board level. The Related satisfaction levels. What we did well; Party Panel comprises of the Chief However, only 2 respondents believed that the IT service was below par. Service Delivery Strategy Officer, Chief Legal Officer, • Phone pick up time and Helpdesk courteousness and Chief Compliance Officer and Group RESPONSE SATISFACTION professionalism Chief Finance Officer and they provide • Availability of SharePoint in and out of the office.  • The availability and quality of the Lync service. first-level review of most related-party  • Tips and Tricks were beneficial to most respondents transactions within the authority limits set by the Company’s Delegation of Application   Authority. Critical business concerns/ • Users were satisfied with the effectiveness and trends are escalated to the Board.   efficiency of Oracle ERP. Business Information Management Key Supply Chain Drivers for 2016  C-SAT Survey: There was a 75% 9HU\3RRU 3RRU )DLU *RRG 9HU\*RRG satisfaction level, whilst, 23% of • Excellent display of customer service with good • Restructuring of the organization as a result of respondents believed the service DEMOGRAPHICS knowledge of technology and the impact of the divestment rendered was fair business. • Company-wide drive for cost optimization A total of 93 respondents participated in the 2016 C-SAT survey with the • Participation of our Environmental, Health, Safety demographics below; AREAS OF IMPROVEMENT ,Security and Quality department in required tenders and sign off on relevant contracts The following areas of improvement have been identified; • Proper vendor contracting procedures which are in Entity Total Respondents % Respondents alignment with the Company’s retrospective Purchase • A stronger and more interactive awareness strategy for OGP 61 26 42.6 the Productivity Coaching (“PC”) program, this should Order policy include remote locations. • Synergy with our Corporate Communications OER 81 29 35.8 department to augment knowledge about the Company • Productivity coaches to set up trainings (per entity) on Group/SS 65 38 58.5 basis business work tools. to assist in engaging external stakeholders Total  207 93 45 • Business Information Manager (BIM) engagement of users for the various services the IT unit offers, • Cheat Sheets for frequently used solutions; e.g. Video Conferences, VPN setup etc. RESPONDENT DISTRIBUTION       2*3 2(5 *URXS66 7RWDO5HVSRQGHQWV 5HVSRQGHQWV 38 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 39 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued CLIMATE ACTION (SDG 7) CLIMATE ACTION (SDG 13) Emission INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND THE Emission is a critical aspect which the Company focuses ENVIRONMENT OUR ENVIRONMENT PLAN Data Center Move on. This is particular for the midstream subsidiary as exhaust gases are emitted from generators at our power The “Oando Green Plan” (the plan) was conceptualized in 2016 which provided plants. In addition, diesel generators are used at some of In 2016, as part of efforts to reduce our carbon footprint the framework for sustainable facility management practice at our proposed new our operational bases. and eliminate the inefficient energy utilization in the inoffice space, the Wings Towers. house data centre, it was decided that the Company’s To manage the quality of gas emission, the quality of fuel main data center infrastructure will be moved to an energy The scope of the plan covered the following areas: used at our power plants are properly analyzed before efficient tier 3 co-location facility. Expanded Secure Print Services • Employee Education procurement, while a robust maintenance plan is • Energy Optimization implemented to ensure optimal functionality of power • Waste management plants to minimize carbon emission to the environment. The secure print service was extended to more • Water management Periodic audits are carried out by Federal and State departments within the business. This increased our • Paper management environmental agencies and their reports form the basis for managed print coverage to 90% and subsequently performance review. Environmental Monitoring Plans which reduced use of paper by 25%. This in turn reduced The implementation of our environment plan would impact are outputs of the Environmental Impact Assessments printing costs while ensuring Oando contributes its quota (EIA) are implemented to ensure adherence to specified to preserving the environment. directly in a reduction in carbon emission and reduce waste IT Waste Disposal key performance indicators. generation. In the period under review, Oando owned two 130 power generating sets with emissions beyond tolerable Biodiversity In line with the Oando Asset Management process, some Some of our business activities (projects and operations) faulty and obsolete IT assets were disposed of in line with thresholds. The plan would immediately address best safety practices during the year under review from our have certain unavoidable impacts on habitats and their sustainability concerns by reducing pollution and AGO ecosystem. However, in order to manage these impacts, a Head office in Victoria Island, Downstream HQ in Apapa, consumption. The estimated reduction in CO2 emissions biodiversity risk assessment and management is AGI Ikeja and INTELS Port Harcourt offices. Details of incorporated into the EIA program conducted for all the items are captured below; from discontinuing the use of generators is 130 tonnes per SN Item Description Quantity projects in compliance with Federal and State regulatory annum. requirements. Transportation 1 Cisco IP Phones 38 Reports from environmental audits carried out by Federal 2 Lucent Desk Phones 1 Oando operates a carpool system in an effort to reduce traffic congestion and and State agencies are used as reference documents for carbon monoxide as it relates to the number of vehicles deployed out per assessing performance. Stakeholder consultations which 3 Panasonic Desk Phones 6 employee. Pool car allocations are done on the basis of daily requests received focus on biodiversity are a key component in the conduct 4 Polycom Desk Phones 6 to go to various business locations. of EIAs and Environmental Evaluation Reviews. TPA 5 Astra Dialog Phone 1 The Oando staff bus scheme is a larger representation our conscious effort at Effluent & Waste 6 UPS / AVS 5 reducing pollution. Seven (7) staff buses are used to transport employees to and Our waste philosophy guides how waste is generated and from work from the closest stop to employees’ homes. Staff buses being used as 7 Laptops Computers 107 managed in the Company. We are proactive in ensuring The estimated reduction in CO2 a carpool initiative transports an average of 150 employees daily significantly that waste generation is minimized. Waste generated is 8 Desktop Computers 37 reducing the number of cars in traffic by 70 cars, thus reducing CO2 emissions emissions from discontinuing the segregated and disposal of such waste is carried out in 9 Monitor 17 by 322 metric tonnes annually. use of generators is 130 tonnes line with stipulated regulatory guidelines. For instance, Energy 10 Printers / Scanners 23 approximately 1,024kg of non-hazardous waste was per annum. disposed from our midstream subsidiary which 11 Toner Modules 61 Affordable and clean energy is a major focus for the organization as our demonstrates our desire to minimize waste generation. 12 14” CRT Screens 3 midstream subsidiary continues to play a key role in the distribution of natural Effluent stream from our terminals and plants are controlled gas and power to businesses and industries. This energy is effectively managed in a manner that prevents contamination of the surrounding 13 Projectors 2 through the implementation of a robust automated power generation system that environments. There are separator pits located within the 14 Others (cables/monitor stands/Access points/Keyboards) 77 automatically responds to energy demand, increasing and decreasing amount terminals and plants that separate oil from water when they of energy produced at a particular time thereby ensuring energy is not wasted. run off. TOTAL 384 Daily reports were generated indicating produced energy against consumed Environmental Friendly Programs energy and this formed a basis for performance review. Approximately The Company continues to partner with organizations with 30,302scm of natural gas was consumed by micro –turbine engines while environmentally friendly programs through financial 113,513 kWh was consumed. support and actively participating in events organized by Protection and Restoration of Habitats these organizations. Our employees speak at some events and participate on panel discussions as well as review Approximately 1.73km of pipeline Right of Way was excavated by our midstream technical papers presented at these events. subsidiary in Lagos and reinstated. For instance, there were nine (9) local government areas of Lagos state that were impacted by the restoration activities of one of our subsidiaries. The restoration was carried out in conjunction with the Lagos State Waste Management Authority in accordance with the state law. 40 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 41 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued PARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOAL (SDG 17), SUSTAINABLE CITIES (SDG 11) PARTNERSHIP FOR THE GOALS (SDG 17), SUSTAINABLE Stakeholder concerns CITIES (SDG 11) Stakeholders concerns form part of internal and external Key issues usually raised during engagement with our reports. These reports are reflected in weekly, monthly, stakeholders are: employment opportunities, social quarterly and annual reports as the case might be. Issues COMMUNITY RELATIONS projects execution, environmental issues, homage, raised by the community usually centers on employment, security and socio-political issues. Regulatory issues are community development projects, economic OUR STAKEHOLDERS mainly focused around work program performance and empowerment programs, changes in community compliance with existing laws guiding Oil and Gas leadership etc. forms part of the major concerns in the In 2016, Oando, through its Upstream subsidiary; Oando Energy Resources reports. industry activities. engaged the following stakeholders in the course of its operations across the Niger Delta. They include community Monarchs, Community Development Feedback from the stakeholders come in form of reports, Committee leaders, Community Women and Youth Leaders, Local Government Formal meetings are usually held to letters, communique, agreements and minutes of Authorities, Pressure groups, and various Government Regulators – Nigerian address issues raised by communities meetings. Weekly/monthly/quarterly/annual reports are Petroleum Investment Services, Department of Petroleum Resources etc. and government regulators. For the compiled and transmitted to the General Manager External Relations who reports salient points to the OER Our stakeholders are identified and selected through the following ways: communities, employment opportunities Executive (Exco) meeting and thereafter to the Group at different levels are provided to qualified Reconnaissance visit: Prior to commencement of any operation, a site Leadership Council (GLC) Meeting. candidates. Social projects are also reconnaissance field trip is usually conducted by the community relations executed subject to the terms of the Formal local community grievance processes department for data collection. During such visits, community leadership Community grievance is usually received in the form of a structures and other influencers are identified and documented. Information Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) written petition or organized protest. On receipt, the provided is later used for proper mapping and engagement. entered into with the Communities and petition is documented and an internal review of the Recommendation: Stakeholders are also identified through recommendation by budget. Environmental issues are handled petition is made by the Company. The petitioner is invited for a discussion if there is merit in the petition. Otherwise opinion leaders within the environment. Some of the opinion leaders could be strictly in line with regulatory requirements an appropriate response is sent to the petitioner. Where elderly persons within the community, prominent men/women, religious leaders or organized associations. and usually accorded prompt attention. compromise is reached with a petitioner who has complained of an issue that has merit, a resolution is Documentary information: This is another form of stakeholder’s identification. For the regulators, work program performances are signed off, otherwise further consultations are made with a The documentary information could be in the form of reports, literature review, view to resolving the grievance. Where all efforts fail the usually presented, jointly reviewed and signed-off. correspondence, government proclamations and gazettes. court of law becomes the last arbiter. Prioritizing of stakeholders is done through stakeholders mapping techniques. Stakeholder’s table showing identification, engagement, issues and resolution strategy Once the mapping is done, stakeholders are then categorized into primary and secondary based on their level of influence. Stakeholder Group Basis of Format/Mode of Key Stakeholder Resolution APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT Identification Engagement concerns/issues Strategies Community We recognize that our stakeholders are our longtime partners and therefore they Leadership Reconnaissance visit, Daily, weekly, Monthly, Employment, Economic Signing of MoU / are accorded utmost recognition. Generally, efforts are usually made to Letters, Government Quarterly, Annually. empowerment, Homage, Agreement after Round proactively engage and create interactive opportunities to manage issues of gazette, Opinion leaders Social projects table, Workshops, Town concerns. etc. execution etc. hall meetings, etc. Stakeholder Engagement Regulators Engagement with stakeholders are done formally and informally. The informal Laws establishing the Quarterly and Annual Execution of annual Sign-off in Performance means of engagement includes the day to day outreach through phone calls, regulators, meetings Work programs, review meetings, interactions and responses to correspondences while the formal forms of Correspondence compliance to compliance to regulatory engagement are the weekly (Tuesdays and Thursdays general meeting days) regulations framework. meetings, monthly/quarterly engagement schedules (for example. Community Parliament and Trust Board meetings etc.) and annual engagement (usually for Pressure groups social projects commissioning, performance reviews with regulators etc.). In this Correspondence Round table meetings, Employment / Agreement signing, situation meetings are held as town halls, workshops and/or roundtable. Most legal means Environmental issues, Court resolution formal meetings are usually communicated to stakeholders via letter of invitation Economic opportunities to a meeting. Sometimes, ad-hoc engagements are also held to handle exigencies that may occur. Engagement with our stakeholders are done throughout the life cycle of any project. Our engagements are routine activities in the ordinary course of our operations. 42 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 43 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH (SDG 8) DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH (SDG 8) Safety Awareness & Training: OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE A key focus for the organization was ensuring that The year 2016 was globally challenging due to a ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SAFETY, SECURITY AND employees took ownership for the tasks they were combination of factors, such as the geopolitical events QUALITY saddled with including all safety requirements related to and heightened uncertainty related to the U.S. presidential those tasks. The EHSSQ experts provided standards, election, amongst others; which created political, procedures and guidance to employees. Approximately, Oando is determined in its pursuit to ensure that there are no 350 employees were trained in 15 EHSSQ courses and economic and social tension. 2016 marked the second full year since oil prices started crashing after peaking in June fatalities in its operations, with respect to the health & safety awareness sessions. 2014. The year opened with oil prices trading at $26.68 of its employees and the environment, a key concern in our Key EHSSQ Awareness Sessions & Courses per barrel on January 20th, a 14-year low, and the impact included: business operations. In 2016, there were no employee, of the extended oil price downturn meant that oil companies had to continue to adjust to the lower crude oil contractor or third party fatalities, and the Fitness to Work 1. API 570 price environment, focusing on efficient capital allocation, 0 system was strictly adhered to for tasks carried out for the 2. Non Detective Testing (NDT) improved operating cost discipline and organic growth period under review. 3. Heat Stress development. 4. Fitness-to-work Key focus areas include: 5. Hypertension As a group coming off an impairment driven loss position 6. Elevator safety in 2014 and 2015, we took a strategic decision to re• Ensuring zero work-related fatalities through employee consultations and 7. EHS level 1 define our group’s strategy towards increased focus on empowerment 8. EHS level 2 our dollar denominated businesses while partially • Encouraging healthy lifestyles and developing healthy initiatives 9. EHS Level 3 divesting from our Naira earning businesses. Hence, at • Strengthening environmentally friendly programs 10. EHS Management System the beginning of the year, we embarked on some corporate strategic initiatives geared towards achieving In achieving these goals, a number of activities were carried out: A September-October-November-December (SOND) balance sheet optimization and ensuring we return to the profitability which we recorded at the end of the year. Policy review and update: awareness campaign and assets security session was held to equip our employees with vital security knowledge and tips. This was necessitated by the high security risks Our upstream business, Oando Energy Resources (OER), The EHSSQ policy and other related policies were revamped to ensure a more that generally exist in our environment at this time of the saw a 20% decline in production due to sabotage proactive approach to environmental health and safety matters. Areas of review year. activities which interrupted operations. However, we included identification of critical positions within the organization for specified achieved a 5.3% increase in our 2P Reserves estimation, Security Practices EHSSQ training, review of environmental studies after expiration of lifecycle and from 445mmboe in 2015 to 469mmboe in 2016 as well as a security approach that respects people and human rights. a 70% increase in our 2C Resources from 122mmboe to Managing security risks through structured Security Risk 208mmboe. In addition, OER through its 81.5% held Policies reviewed and completely updated include: assessments is important to ensuring the protection of the subsidiary, Equator Exploration Ltd, successfully farmed 1. Permit-To-Work (PTW) lives of employees and contractors, preventing damage to out a 65% participating interest in blocks 5 & 12 in the 2. Medicare Company assets and sustaining operational capability. Democratic Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe to 3. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) Security deployment and other mitigation are developed Kosmos Energy for a cash consideration of $14m and a 4. Security and managed with due consideration to respecting carry arrangement of up to $20m on two (2) wells. We also 5. Smoking human rights. successfully completed our voluntary delisting from the 6. Spill Toronto Stock Exchange. In 2016, there were no 7. Environment Assessment A security unit under the EHSSQ department has been employee, contractor or third The Environment Health & Safety Management System (EHS MS): established to manage security issues. Standard 2016 was a successful year for Oando Trading, our crude party fatalities Operating procedures are in place to guide the and refined petroleum trading business, which recorded a As part of the Company’s commitment to protecting the health and safety of implementation of the Company’s security policy. In this four year high trading revenue of N377.8bn ($1.4billion) employees and other stakeholders, there was a review and revamp of the regard, security incidents are reported, recorded and and PAT of N2bn ($7.7million) as oil volumes witnessed organization’s EHS Management System. A number of employees drawn across investigated and process audits /reviews are conducted continued growth resulting in a 106% increase in traded the various departments reviewed the organization performance in eight (8) to ensure compliance. volumes of crude oil (13million barrels) and refined elements of the EHSMS. These elements comprise namely: petroleum products (1.3million Metric Tons). This was Mitigation measures are deployed to be proactive and 1. Leadership & Commitment driven by the structured execution of two Direct Sale also to effectively manage breaches when they occur. 2. Policy & Strategic Objectives Direct Purchase (DSDP) agreements with the NNPC as Metrics are used to measure adequacy and cost 3. Organization Resources & Documentation well as crude and product exports. effectiveness. Audits and reviews are also conducted to 4. Risk Evaluation & management ensure compliance with the security policy. 5. Planning H1 2016 commenced in our downstream business on a 6. Implementation & Monitoring bearish note as the circumstances driving the economic Remedial actions are taken to close gaps identified during 7. Management Review slowdown in 2015 continued to exist through 2016 leading audits and reviews. The processes delivering the 8. Audit to further contraction in the economy such as increase in expected results are sustained, while efforts are Inflation, dearth of foreign exchange to cater for the constantly geared towards overall continuous This review crystalized into the development of the Oando EHS MS Framework. payment of imported products and services, fuel improvement. This is now being used to further drive continual improvement of our EHS MS to shortages driven by inadequacy of foreign exchange meet the organization’s Environmental Health & Safety objectives and targets. available to petroleum marketers. Hence, there was greater dependence on inland lifting from the government, 44 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 45 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued How far have we come? continued DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH (SDG 8) REDUCED INEQUALITIES (SDG 10) AND GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5) and persistent security challenges resulting from pipeline Coverage of the Company’s defined benefit plan vandalism and kidnappings in the country. In spite of obligations. these challenges, OVH has remained committed to The Company operates a contributory pension scheme in delivering value, and is constantly investing in growth line with the Pension Reform Act, 2004. The employee sustaining initiatives to ensure the organization stays on contributes 8% of their gross annual salary while the top when we start to see a turnaround in economic employer makes a 14.2% contribution. Pension fund conditions. administrators are chosen by individual employees to ensure optimal return on their pension and contributions. The 2016 aggregated financial results for our midstream business; Oando Gas & Power showed a turnover of The Company has a total liability of N1.16 billion for N30.37 billion, representing a 9% decline over the outstanding defined benefit plan obligations. The previous year’s result of N33.53 billion. The decline was obligation is due for payment at an employee’s exit and mainly driven by gas supply challenges that resulted from interest accrues at 9.5% per annum on the balance at destruction of pipelines and gas facilities for the greater curtailment. The plan’s liabilities are met by the part of the year. However, through our entrepreneurial and organization’s general resources. innovative spirit, we achieved expected performance results. In the same year under review, a Profit after Tax However, commencing from 1st January 2012, we (PAT) of N6.85 billion was achieved. This figure indicates discontinued the defined benefit scheme for management a 20% increase over the comparative figure of N5.67 and senior staff; and at the end of 2016 the scheme billion in 2015. The growth in PAT was mainly driven by REDUCED INEQUALITIES (SDG 10) AND GENDER closed with a balance of N782 million. The balance of the deferred tax income and profit on the sale of Akute Power scheme in Oando Energy Resources (OER) was N379 EQUALITY (SDG 5) Limited. million at the end of 2016. Financial Assistance from Government The shareholders of the Company at our 38th Annual HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT General Meeting (AGM) held December 7, 2015 approved the divestment of our rig business, Oando Energy The Company gets no financial assistance from the Services, from the Oando Group. Sequel to approval of Nigerian government or any other country. Likewise, the the divestment by the Securities and Exchange government of Nigeria has no stake in the Company. At Oando, we understand that people are pivotal to building Commission (SEC) in the first quarter of 2016, OES Energy a sustainable company thus our people constitute the Services Ltd (formerly known as Oando Energy Services Ltd) completed its divestment from the Oando Group by foundation of our existence. In 2016, we positioned the way of a Management buyout (MBO). organization to attract and retain diverse talent and empowered them to continuously seek developmental 2016 opportunities. Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed The Organization’s employee profile is displayed below: Company OER OTD OGP OMP*** GROUP Total Employees by Subsidiary N'000,000 N'000,000 N'000,000 N'000,000 N'000,000 Employment Category Gas & Downstream Energy Oando PLC Energy Total Economic value generated 77,277 377,785 30,369 60,421 455,747 Power Resources Services Economic value distributed: Full Time 51 303 72 68 47 541 Contract 25 334 29 65 81 534 Operating costs 54,762 2,359 4,679 14,819 109,253 Consultants 1 7 12 2 17 39 Payment to government 891 1,637 Employee wages and benefits 4,306 415 1,162 1,604 9,478 Industrial Trainees/Interns 0 16 3 0 1 20 Providers of capital 24,950 38 1,746 97 58,313 Total 77 660 116 135 146 1,134 Community investments 145*** Non-discrimination Economic value retained 16,661 2,025 6,848 (6,324) 3,494 ***Donation to Oando Foundation given by companieswithin the Oando group. At Oando, we believe that there is beauty in diversity and that our differences ***OMP’s results are for H1 2016. makes us stronger. Thus, we have a zero discrimination policy. The diversity of our staff elicits more innovative and creative ideas across all ages, gender, tribes, nationalities, religious affiliations and physical disabilities. The Company ensures there is a level playing field for all applicants during recruitment exercise and remunerates her staff based on job level and expertise without regard for gender or affiliation. 46 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 47 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued REDUCED INEQUALITIES (SDG 10) AND GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5) Gender Distribution Oando, participates in the mandatory pension scheme as • Succession planning and collegiate review exercises i. Know who our stakeholders are; We pride ourselves as an equal opportunity employer by guided by the Pension Reform Act, 2014. The Company which are continuously carried out within all entities to ii. Identify the impact of every stakeholder to the business ensuring our policies and procedures are poised to pays 14.2% of an employee’s gross pay as its contribution build internal pipelines of talent. These exercises and vice versa; continuously propagate inclusion and diversity. Our to the pension fund account of each employee, which is typically involve evaluating direct reports on iii. Prioritize our stakeholders and their interests based on people initiatives in the current year were aimed at 2.2% above the 12% recommendation of the Pension performance and potential in line with the Company’s their respective impact on the business;  Reform Act, 2014 while the employee contributes 8% of short and long term objectives, vision and mission. iv. Adequately understand what our key stakeholder enhancing and instituting commitment, motivation and employee engagement. their gross pay into the same scheme. This serves as our concerns & issues are; participation in retirement plans and gives our employees We regard people management as extremely material to v. Resolve or manage the stakeholder concerns identified some comfort for life after work. our operations as it embodies the general management and; GENDER DISTRIBUTION regarding developing, maintaining and improving vi. Update stakeholders on resolutions to their concerns; In our bid to build a sustainable employee relationships via communication, performance and advance improvements management, processing grievances and/or disputes as 0DOH )HPDOH organization, our competitive pay position well as interpreting and conveying the organization’s core We have maintained the identification and classification of anchors Oando’s fixed pay around the 50th values and policies. our key stakeholders (outside of our employees) into the Prohibition of Child labour percentile of comparative competitor pay following groups: • Customers levels, obtained through appropriate and • Vendors and Business Partners The Company strictly prohibits child labour and does not  reliable market/industry surveys. employ minors and children in any of its business place. • Investors & Shareholders Our KYC process specially emphasizes the assurance • Governments and Regulators that vendors do not engage in child labour. • Communities Oando, engages third party outsourcers for temporary/ or • Employees Other Stakeholders part time employees to aid its operations and we do our best to ensure that the organizations we engage provide The processes of stakeholder identification and their employees with adequate benefits including but not At Oando, our systems are continuously designed and prioritization are as detailed in our previous Sustainability limited to: driven by the understanding (as declared in previous Reports (2013 Pages 26 – 28, 2014 Pages 29 – 33). • Life Insurance reports) that every organization has stakeholders whose  • Health Care differing interests may sometimes conflict and we ensure • Annual Leave that we continuously: • Sick Leave • Parental Leave • End of year allowance OUR KEY STAKE HOLDERS Remuneration, Benefits & Employee Welfare • Others We are strong advocates of equal opportunities and we Learning and Development Investors place emphasis on linking performance with reward; thus, Training and development is pivotal to our business as it Customers and we adopt a pay-for-performance culture. The Oando directly impacts our drive for continuous improvement and Reward Framework guides our remuneration process for building a sustainable organization. We have continued to Shareholders all employees. In addition, for company executives and improve on our existing employee skill profile through Board level remunerations, the Governance and various learning interventions including but not limited to: Nominations Committee provide guidance in line with the classroom training, e-learning, on-the-job training, Board Remuneration Policy. coaching & mentoring and self-study. As stated in previous reports, we provide Direct/Full time Similar to previous years, learning interventions were employees (based on defined eligibility criteria) across all effected through blended learning methods as reflected Oando Key company locations the following benefits: above, to address competency gaps as identified by our • Pension routine competency assessment report and business Stakeholders Communities Employees • Group Life Insurance exigencies. All the activities were geared towards building • Health Insurance organizational and individual capacity to ensure a • Annual Leave sustainable organization. • Sick Leave • Leave of absence Performance and Talent Management • Maternity Leave To sustain our growth trajectory, the Company • Casual & Compassionate Leave continuously embarks on: • Study Leave • Performance management which is vital to maintaining • Examination Leave our governance framework, it ensures that our people • Mortgage Support Facility strive to reach their optimum potential, achieve their • Car Benefit Governments Business objectives and in turn the organization’s corporate • Car Grant and Regulators Partners and objectives. This is achieved through our performance Vendors • Social & Professional Subscription management system which runs two cycles annually. • Mobile Phone • End of Year Allowance 48 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 49 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued QUALITY EDUCATION (SDG 4), CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION (SDG 6), GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5) QUALITY EDUCATION (SDG 4), CLEAN WATER AND Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote SANITATION (SDG 6), GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5) lifelong learning opportunities for all Quality education is a critical route out of poverty and towards prosperity. We OANDO FOUNDATION aim to support the Nigerian Government to achieve its Universal Basic Education Building the Right Foundation for Sustainable Development goal through our signature project; the AASI. The strategies which address this objective are: …….Transforming Lives through Education • Infrastructural development through school renovation and new buildings • Teacher training and provision of instructional aids • Introducing Early Childhood Care and Development Education • Establishing Creative (ICT) Centres • Oando Scholars programme Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls We aim to ensure access and improve the quality of teaching and learning outcomes in schools as well as prioritize the needs of the girl child across all our programme interventions. We also recognize the community as a great backbone in our advocacy efforts. This is why we ensure that the School Based Management Committee ( SBMC ) members’ capacity are built to reach out to children (especially girls) who are out of school, or who are likely to drop out of school, as well as their families so as to The Oando Foundation at a Glance begin to provide a more protective environment. Through our advocacy efforts, we are increasing the participation and voices of women and children in the Oando Foundation ('the foundation or OF ) believes SBMC and the school development planning process, and have begun to see our advocacy efforts paying off. education is the greatest investment to secure sustainable development in the continent. Over the years, we have doggedly demonstrated our commitment to achieving the right of every child to quality education in Nigeria; working with multi-layered stakeholders, using integrative and participatory approaches to increase learning opportunities Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and for children. sanitation for all Lack of privacy for the girl child due to inadequate facilities to support Water, Sanitation and Hygiene ( WASH ) needs, especially during their menstrual cycle Established in 2011 by Oando PLC as an independent charity to support the is a key challenge. The Foundation continues to support WASH needs in Nigerian Government in achieving its Universal Basic Education goal, the adopted schools through provision of portable water supply, wash bays, and Foundation’s vision is to create sustainable and equitable educational systems in toilets. communities, to empower every child through its signature project the Adopt-ASchool Initiative (AASi). The Adopt-A-School programme utilizes an integrated school development approach. It comprises infrastructural development (including water and sanitation), teacher capacity development, information & communications technology (ICT) education, early childcare development, grants and Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development scholarships, strengthening institutional management of education, and other projects geared towards improving access to quality education and transforming the lives of children in communities across Nigeria. We work in close collaboration and have formed strategic alliances with key government educational institutions, non-governmental organisations, industry In line with our theory of change, the Foundation’s programme interventions specialists, community members, as well as partner with other private sector support the actualization of four of the seventeen Sustainable Development organisations to ensure effective programme implementation, monitoring, and Goals. These strategies derive directly from our objectives and constitute the key replication (where required) across other non-adopted schools in the country. components of our strategic plan. The strategies that guide our mandate are structured as individual but interrelated initiatives: The Foundation is also registered with the UK Charity Commission and has a 501C3 status in the United States of America. 50 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 51 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued QUALITY EDUCATION (SDG 4), CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION (SDG 6), GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5)         THE FOUNDATION’S REACH: 88 SCHOOLS ACROSS 23 STATES LIMITATION TO APPROACH Other responsibilities of the board include the following: Whilst recognising our several strengths, the Foundation is 1. Determine the organization's mission and purpose: It is also aware of its limitations, as follows; the Board's responsibility to create and review a statement of mission and purpose that articulates the Management organization's goals, means, and primary constituents served; • A change in executive leadership of its key funder, 2. Provide proper financial oversight:The BOT must assist Oando PLC,could pose a risk to financial resourcing in developing the annual budget and ensuring that and administrative support. proper financial controls are in place; Operations 6RNRWR  .DWVLQD 3. Ensure adequate resources: One of the Board's  foremost responsibilities is to provide adequate • The Foundation realises that as its programmes resources for the organization to fulfill its mission; increase in scale, internal capacity gaps may become 4. Ensure legal and ethical integrity and maintain apparent. accountability: The BOT is ultimately responsible for • Participating in the global philanthropy space may ensuring adherence to legal standards and ethical leave the Foundation vulnerable to competing norms; international priorities. 5. Ensure effective organizational planning: The BOT must .DGXQD %DXFKL  • Donors may seek to determine the Foundation’s priority actively participate in an overall planning process and areas and expenditure posing a reputational risk to the assist in implementing and monitoring the goals; .DWVLQD   Foundation. 6. Recruit and orient new BOT members and assess BOT Our Strategy $GDPDZD performance: The BOT have a responsibility to )&7   articulate prerequisites for candidates, orient new .ZDUD  3ODWHDX  • The complexities of a holistic approach to education members, and periodically and comprehensively reform may create challenges for scale up and evaluate its own performance; 2VXQ  (NLWL 7DUDED replicability. 7. Enhance the organization's public standing: The BOT   • There is a risk of low understanding and prioritisation of should clearly articulate the organization's mission, 2QGR  the Foundation’s initiatives within Oando PLC. accomplishments, and goals to the public and garner 2JXQ  support from the community; Management 88 (QXJX  /DJRV  (GR  (ERQ\L 8. Determine, monitor, and strengthen the organization's  programs and services: The BOTs responsibility is to The foundation’s highest authority is its Board of Trustees 5HJLRQ 1RRI$GRSWHG determine which programs are consistent with the &URVV ( BOT ) members are selected based on pre-determined 5LYHU  6FKRROV organization's mission and to monitor their skills matrix. The Board provides oversight to the Head, effectiveness; $NZD 1RUWK&HQWUDO  Oando Foundation who is supported by a team of %D\HOVD ,ERP 9. Support the Chief Executive and assess his or her :.  dedicated staff to manage its daily operations. The BOT  5LYHU  The BOT should ensure that the Chief Executive has 1RUWK(DVW  meet independently and jointly during the course of the the moral and professional support he or she needs to year to provide oversight functions to the Foundation’s 1RUWK:HVW  further the goals of the organization; activities. 6RXWK:HVW  The BOT serve on a pro-bono basis and therefore receive no compensation for services/time rendered. Every year, The Foundation effectively leverages Oando 6RXWK6RXWK  board members are required to disclose any potential PLC’s in kind human resource support. The 6RXWK:HVW  conflict of interests in writing. Foundation’s strategy is therefore embedded in Oando’s culture that is hinged on the following core values of Teamwork, Respect, Integrity, Passion and Professionalism (TRIPP) and the Oando Code of Business Conduct & Ethics. 88 schools across 23 States 52 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 53 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued QUALITY EDUCATION (SDG 4), CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION (SDG 6), GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5) Policies Grievance mechanisms Our Approach The Foundation’s operations manual documents the policies employed in Respect for human rights is particularly Monitoring our approach managing its operations and includes the policies, guidelines and practices, The Foundation prioritizes evidence-based planning: which guide the Foundation’s staff, partners and associates in the execution of critical to the way we operate, in this regard, • At least biennially, the board is evaluated or conducts a its core and support processes. The manual wis revised from time to time based we focus on three areas: labour rights, self-evaluation to review its performance and identify on emerging realities, new developments and changes impacting the operating communities, and supply chains. Our areas for improvement structure of the Foundation. Reviewing, updating and ensuring availability of this • Monitoring and evaluation of all programme manual is the responsibility of the Head, Oando Foundation. communication channels enable us to meet components are integral parts of the AASI initiative, our commitment to provide access to ensuring efficiency and effectiveness in programme The following are the key policies covered: remedy. delivery. 500k • Child protection • Internal and external auditing of the Foundation’s Formal Channels for Complaints and Grievances • Finance financial statements are carried out annually. • Procurement and Services • Established stakeholder feedback mechanisms to • Gifts and Benefits support our participatory programme approach. • Volunteer Management Employees and Communities • Stakeholder Engagement Vendors and other • Third Party Declaration stakeholders Our commitment Purpose 3URYLGHDFFHVVWR Receive Receive The Foundation remains the only independent charity established by a complaints, community HGXFDWLRQ Corporate, offering a holistic model to improve the basic education sub-sector in questions and stakeholders Nigeria. concerns related to feedback on issues theft, fraud, related to ,QIUDVWUXFWXUDO With 8.7million Nigerian children lacking access to quality primary education due discrimination, programme quality, 'HYHORSPHQW to constraints such as extreme poverty, socio-cultural barriers, and conflictharassment, programme affected environments, the Foundation is committed to ensuring that by the end employee relations, performance, labour, health and physical of 2021, 500,000 children of primary school age across Nigeria will be $ % safety, and human disturbances, and supported to access quality education. rights contractor & The Foundation is committed to Goals and targets management ensuring that by the end of 2021, (DUO\&KLOGKRRG ,&7(GXFDWLRQ &DUH(GXFDWLRQ 500,000 children of primary Communication In 2016 we made significant progress in our programme approaches and school age across Nigeria will be Ethics line, Telephone, email, delivery, engaging with stakeholders to serve our key beneficiaries better. channels telephone and mailing address, supported to access quality Our commitment is driven by our passion to improve the deplorable state of email letters and education basic education in Nigeria and transform lives. Implementing 2017 Key Targets Partners 6FKRODUVKLSV $GYRFDF\ • Provide conducive learning environment for 67,000 children across our adopted schools Complaints and Initial complaint is Complaints are • Mobilize and retain 15,000 Out of School Children (‘OOSC’) back to school grievances received (in received and • Infrastructural development in 15 schools process confidence, if documented. • Train 1500 teachers on modern pedagogy and classrooms management through our ethics Investigations vary • Establish 15 ICT centers to increase deployment of ICT curriculum in our and compliance based on severity. *LUO&KLOG(GXFDWLRQ 2XWRI6FKRRO hotline) by a third Stakeholders are &KLOGUHQ0RELOL]DWLRQ schools party, and the engaged to resolve • Train 200 Local Government Education Authority (LGEA) officials on cases are and close out Education Management Information Systems to improve availability of quality investigated and grievances. education data for decision making resolved by the ,PSURYHWKHTXDOLW\ Resources corporate Ethics RIHGXFDWLRQ Committee with local site support &DSDFLW\VWUHQJWKHQLQJIRU The Foundation is funded from Oando PLC’s pre-tax profit. This funding is as necessary. supplemented by income generated from grant seeking activities with 7HDFKHUV international donors, development partners and select private sector entities to fund some of the Foundation’s programmes. Expense authorisation are in accordance with the BOT-approved Delegation of Authority: Amount Recommended by Approved by /RFDO*RYHUQPHQW 6FKRRO%DVHG (GXFDWLRQ$XWKRULWLHV 0DQDJHPHQW&RPPLWWHHV Less than 5 000 000 Finance Head, Oando Foundation 5 000 000 and above Head, Oando Foundation Board of Trustees 54 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 55 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued QUALITY EDUCATION (SDG 4), CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION (SDG 6), GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5) In 2016, specific actions aimed at improving performance Some of the most common methods we use to consult A detailed overview of our identified stakeholders is highlighted in the Stakeholder Identification Table: included: stakeholders include: a. Programme Intervention: the foundation gained • Phone /email Stakeholders Organization Description Main Role significant traction in programme implementation • Letters Funders supporting over 67,000 pupils (16,602 OOSC enrolled • One-on-one interviews in 2016). The Foundation established 7 walk-in centres, • Workshop/focus group discussions Oando PLC Oando PLC established the Oando Foundation in a Funding and in-kind 7 ICT centres, renovated and equipped 8 schools, • Distribution of newsletters bid to extend its Corporate Social Responsibility support mandate. The organization currently contributes a donated 2,000 teaching & learning aids, strengthened • Social Media percentage of its pretax profit to the Foundation the capacity of 1,608 teachers, trained 268 LGEA & • Meetings SBMC officials on educational management information • Newspaper Organized Private Private sector organisations able to offer Funding and in-kind systems and school governance. Sector supplementary and complimentary funding and support b. Governance: Increased trustee participation through When deciding the frequency and appropriate support reconstitution of the Foundation’s US, UK & Nigerian engagement technique used to consult a particular boards, scheduling of quarterly meetings of each stakeholder group, three criteria are considered – Board, constitution of key committees namely Finance • The extent of impact of the project on the stakeholder External Support International donor agencies and development Funding and Technical Agencies and partners willing to commit funds and technical Assistance & Audit, Strategy & Planning, and Fundraising group International NGOs expertise to supporting basic education reform. Committees to support the Foundation’s strategic • The extent of influence of the stakeholder group on the objectives. Also, increase in trustees’ visits to project project intervention site. • The culturally acceptable engagement and information c. Finance/Operations: Targeted fundraising efforts dissemination methods Delivery/Implementa tion Partners Non-Governmental OF selects community-based NGOs who are Manage all state and through institutional grants, Trustee-led crowd funding, Organizations responsible for programme implementation at the community level direct programme cost optimization, and resolution of In general, the extent of our engagement with each (Implementing Partners) state and community level. engagement. the Foundation’s tax exempt status. stakeholder is directly proportional to their impact and Facilitate project influence whilst considering peculiarities associated with implementation – CBR d. Visibility: Increased media visibility through advocacy projects, SBMC campaigns, active social media presence, and each stakeholder per time. development and Stakeholder Engagement traditional media engagements. oversee scholarship Stakeholder Identification and Selection Process process At Oando Foundation, we recognize that effective Oando Foundation commences its stakeholder stakeholder management is critical to the success of our Federal Ministry of Overall responsibility for developing national policies Provide necessary engagement process by conducting a Stakeholder work; engaging the right people in the right way improves Education and guidelines for uniform standards at all levels of approvals and mapping / analysis. The analysis identifies key the quality of our interventions, increases ownership and education in Nigeria as enshrined in various statutory regulatory guidelines stakeholders within a community / state and determines drives sustainability. Stakeholder engagement goes instruments, including the 1999 Constitution of the the likely relationship between stakeholders and the beyond people simply being informed and consulted. It Federal Republic of Nigeria and National Policy on Project. It also helps to identify the appropriate includes people participating and being involved whilst Education. consultation methods for each stakeholder group during striving for a greater focus and commitment to improve the the life of the project. overall outcome of our work. Universal Basic UBEC ensures unfettered access to nine (9) years of Provide necessary Education Board formal basic education; that is, qualitative universal approvals and The Foundation has identified and cultivated multi-level basic education for every Nigerian child of school¬ regulatory guidelines partnerships with a range of groups across various levels age. It has the mandate to drastically reduce the – Government; International Development Agencies; incidence of drop-outs from the formal school system, Political, Traditional, and Religious Leaders, Nonthrough improved relevance, quality and efficiency. Governmental Organisations, Civil Society Organizations, Philanthropists and communities. Also State Ministry of State Universal Basic The Boards are established by the Federal Provide necessary Education, State Universal Basic Education Boards, Local Education Boards government to remove distortions and inconsistencies approvals and Government Education Authorities, School Based (SUBEB) in basic education delivery and reinforce the regulatory guidelines Management Committees, head teachers of adopted implementation of the National Policy on Education as schools, secondary school principals, scholarship boards well as to ensure access, equity and quality of basic and parents. education throughout the country. This government agency is responsible for the implementation of basic education programmes at the state and local government levels. Local Government At the primary level, Local Governments share Direct oversight of Education Authority responsibilities with the federal and state development governments. They have direct responsibility for programmes, local level overseeing primary schools within their local monitoring government areas. 56 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 57 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued QUALITY EDUCATION (SDG 4), CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION (SDG 6), GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5) A detailed overview of our identified stakeholders is highlighted in the Stakeholder Identification Table: Stakeholder Issues and Concerns Raised Stakeholders Organization Description Main Role Stakeholder Group Key Stakeholder Resolution Strategy concerns/issues raised Delivery/Implementa tion Partners Communities These represent an array of local level education Implement CBR and State Universal Basic Education Sustaining their commitment The Foundation committed to signing an MOU with SUBEB which stakeholders including School Based Management ensure accountability at Board through change in captures our expectations from SUBEB and our commitment. Committees, Community Based Organisations, and school level administration The MOU is passed on from administration to administration Traditional Leaders. They have a deep understanding of the local operating environments and the capacity Key to mobilization and to support programme implementation. They are the retention of OOSC as Implementing partners Bridging Capacity gaps in The Foundation development mechanism for an ongoing capacity Foundation’s key sustainability stakeholders. well as monitoring of effective implementation & strengthening support to Implementing Partners. school level activities monitoring of AASI Developed templates and guide to support implementation and monitoring Media These include representatives of print, digital and Provide visibility and social media who partner with OF to create highlight impact of awareness and showcase projects in line with our programmes Community Members Capacity gaps to monitor and The Foundation has a robust training plan for SBMC’s across overarching communication strategy advocate effectively management and advocacy leaders, including involving them in the school renovation process through CBR Board of Trustees The Board of Trustees are the governing body Oversight of OF responsible for decision making on behalf of the activities. Ensure proper Foundation. corporate governance. Teachers Non-availability of teaching and The Foundation now supports teachers with teaching and learning learning materials materials to improve the quality of teaching and learning Oando PLC Employees Members of Oando PLC staff who sign up to Contributing financial contribute their time, skills and resources to the resources, time and Employee Volunteer Programme skills Stakeholder Engagement ENGAGEMENT PROCESS Project Beneficiaries Learners These are the major beneficiaries of the Foundation’s Attendance and Overview interventions and are at pre-primary and primary levels of education cooperation Stakeholder engagement within the Foundation is critical for supporting the Understanding ‹ Teachers Teaching staff in adopted schools Collaboration and cooperation project’s risk management our Stakeholders ‹ Head teachers Head teachers of adopted schools Collaboration and process, specifically the early cooperation identification and Parents These are the parents, guardians and caregivers of Reinforce learning avoidance/management of pupils in our adopted schools initiatives by supporting potential impacts (negative and positive) and cost Monitor, Evaluate Process of Identify Areas of learners effective project design. and Document Engagement Collaboration Evaluation Partners Monitoring and Consultants that work with the Foundation to Monitoring and Evaluation Consultants implement and oversee monitoring and evaluation of evaluation; routine Hence, stakeholder engagement is an all OF’s programmes assessments on-going process throughout our programme lifecycle and has been ‹ ‹ categorized into four phases • Stakeholder Mapping Consultation (Understanding and identification) • Consultation • Monitoring and Documentation • Ongoing engagement throughout project cycle 58 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 59 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued QUALITY EDUCATION (SDG 4), CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION (SDG 6), GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5) Understanding our Stakeholders: this involves state Girl-Child Education: Educating the girl child is not a OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT Beneficiaries Identification and Selection level stakeholder mapping to identify partnership luxury. However, gender disparity continues to exist from Our Risk Management approach is anchored on Process opportunities. Understanding our stakeholders will help us access, to enrolment and school completion rates, to the involvement and communication with the stakeholders at Oando Foundation jointly selects its beneficiaries at all in profiling the priority stakeholders and appreciate the quality of learning. Among children not attending school all levels of the project. It provides us a means of levels with key stakeholders using set criteria. The joint power they have to impact our Programme. there are twice as many girls as boys, and among illiterate identifying, prioritizing and controlling the risks that selection process improves inclusivity, openness and adults there are twice as many women as men. Oando Identify Areas of Collaboration: part of understanding threaten our objectives. In addition, we have evolved transparency. Foundation mainstreams gender across all its programme through monitoring and documentation, as well as making Our selection process is guided by the following our stakeholders includes ascertaining their roles and interventions such as the Voices of the Girl Child project decision based on evidence. • Joint selection and verification of beneficiaries responsibilities and how this aligns with the Programme’s campaign which chronicled the challenges of the girl child • Evidence based objective. With information on our stakeholders, their in accessing quality education; Oando Scholars At the inception of each project, a risk mapping / analysis • Clearly defined Project specific needs-based selection interests, and their capacity to impact the Programme, we Programme prioritizes the girl child in the scholar selection is carried out to identify potential risks and a plan is criteria are able to make informed decision on how best to and award process; Code clubs in our adopted schools developed to mitigate such risks. In the course of our • Prioritization of the most vulnerable engage. designed to empower girls in Oando adopted schools work, we have categorized some of our risks and • Geographical coverage focused on areas and with technology skills through creativity and learning, mitigation processes: populations most in need Consultation for us involves: among others. • Financial Risks: To minimize issues around finances • Taking into consideration pre-existing social, cultural Children in Emergencies: The North-Eastern part of • Fair representation and involvement of principal such as embezzlement by partners, Oando Foundation and political dynamics or practices that may stakeholders in the design and implementation of our has developed checks and balances at different levels, marginalize or exploit certain groups Programmes Nigeria has become significantly displaced educationally embedded in our financial and procurement policies. • Developed monitoring mechanisms to check any bias • Periodic Programme update provided to all due to insurgency. Many children who are victims of the Ethics and Integrity The checks ensures that staff, consultants and partners stakeholders whilst ensuring contextualized information insurgency have had their schooling interrupted, some document all their financial dealings and the finance per stakeholder to ensure stakeholders get a detailed, have become orphaned, whilst others lack the financial department ensures due diligence is followed. In As part of our commitment to having the highest holistic picture. resources necessary to continue schooling. Schools in addition, these processes are included in the terms of standards of accountability, we have a zero-tolerance • The Foundation consults through workshops, focus Muchalla and Dzangula communities in Gombi LGA were our agreement with all third parties and vendors. policy towards bribery and corruption of any kind. This groups, public meetings, surveys, participatory tools destroyed by the insurgents, making it impossible for children to continue schooling. includes compliance with all applicable anti-bribery and and stakeholder panels. We choose relevant • Project Delivery Risks: Involvement of stakeholders corruption laws, including the Economic & Financial mechanisms for each stakeholder group as one across all levels is at the core of our approach to Crimes Commission (Establishment) Act 2004, and Money template won’t fit all. We prioritize issues from the To support the re-integration of out-ofensuring quality delivery of all our school improvement Laundering Prohibition Act 2011 (as amended), as well as stakeholders’ viewpoint, understanding the stakeholders’ issues of importance. school children (OOSC) back into school, projects. Through capacity strengthening and international ethics and bribery laws. We work and partner sensitization, community members and government the Foundation had earlier adopted 11 only with those who share this commitment. Monitor, Evaluate and Document: Knowledge bodies learn to take ownership and monitor delivery of schools in Bauchi and Adamawa states, all projects implemented. Also we have established To ensure that Oando Foundation continues to conduct management is critical for capturing information and sharing what is learned. Transparency of the process is some in locations close to the statefeedback mechanism that encourages early operations fairly, ethically and lawfully, Oando Foundation communication among beneficiaries, implementing greatly aided by accurate documentation. Hence, we government approved settlement camps for partners and Oando Foundation. employees are bound by the Oando Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. All staff play their critical part of collect a wide range of views to assess success and displaced persons. We are partnering with maintaining the Foundation’s assets (money, equipment learning points of the engagement process. USAID-funded Education Crisis Response • Government Bureaucracy as part of our sustainability and reputation). Where there are any concerns, the Code Vulnerable Groups Identified process, Oando Foundation engages all government provides a detailed procedure for reporting and escalation (ECR) programme to support the bodies responsible for basic education in our of such concerns. In the course of this year, the Oando In line with our commitment to ensure inclusive and mainstreaming of OOSC from non-formal communities. We ensure continuous consultation and PLC Governance Office sensitized Foundation employees equitable quality basic education in the communities we serve, Oando Foundation targets the below vulnerable learning centers into Oando adopted engagement whilst ensuring an MOU is executed to on important matters, taken from the Group Code of secure their commitment and boycott all unnecessary Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”) and other groups: schools. bureaucracy in approval processes. company policies, in the form of Compliance titbits to aid Out of School Children: Despite the Child Rights Act Children with Special Needs: To reduce the difficulties understanding of the Code and company policies. The • Reputational Issues – we continually engage with our communications on Compliance titbits contained links to signed unto by the Nigerian government, Nigeria still has faced by children with disabilities in accessing formal beneficiaries and other stakeholders to ensure shared the referenced policies from which the titbits were drawn. the highest number of out-of-school children – 8.7 million; education and support their retention in school, the understanding and manage any issues or concerns representing 14% of the 61 million children out of school Foundation provides appropriate teaching and learning that might arise. In addition, we engage media both The Foundation conducts due diligence on potential globally. Children who are not in school are mostly aids, as well as ramps in the schools we renovate. In traditional and social media in pushing out content on donors to assess their credibility and integrity. Staff and unaccounted for. They are therefore “invisible” and often addition, our teacher training programme builds capacity what the Foundation is doing per time. partners of the Foundation are given sensitization and not considered in policy and decision-making. Oando of teachers to understand and utilize differentiated access to the Oando PLC Whistle Blowing Policy, which is Foundation deploys several community-driven learning approaches in their pedagogical practice, to • Inadequate Funding – We deploy a multipronged applicable to all Employees, Executive Management, mobilization campaigns, working with diverse support children with special needs. approach that increases our funding sources beyond Contract Staff and third parties. This provides the stakeholders such as the School Based Management Oando PLC. The Foundation identifies and engages opportunity for employees and third parties with whom the Committees and Mothers’ Associations to support OOSC other partners across different sectors communities, Foundation engages to raise concerns of illegal or enrolment and retention. government, private sector organisations, International unethical behaviour by Foundation personnel, in a development organizations etc. with similar interest to confidential manner and receive feedback on any actions co fund or sponsor some of our projects. taken in this regard. 60 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 61 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued QUALITY EDUCATION (SDG 4), CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION (SDG 6), GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5) 2016 Achievements 3. Establishment of ICT Centers Over its 7 years of existence, Oando Foundation has Our ICT Component is aimed at strengthening the invested resources, time, and skills to assist communities utilization of the existing National ICT Curriculum and and children in need. The outcome is improved learning promoting ICT education in public primary schools environments and increased enrolment. Below is a through the establishment of solar powered ICT summary of our achievements in 2016: Centres, capacity building and support for ICT teachers, provision of ICT textbooks to aid curriculum 1. School infrastructure Improvement implementation, monitoring and support. In 2016, Public primary schools are characterized by poor Oando Foundation established 7 ICT Centres in learning environments and fast decaying Sokoto, Plateau, Kwara, Katsina, and Bauchi States. infrastructure. In order to ensure we reach schools with the most pressing needs, we work with the State Students using ICT Centres at Sabon Kaura General Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) giving Muhammed Buhari Primary School, Katsina 4. Capacity Strengthening consideration to school population, level of deterioration and community population. 4.1 Teachers Training The objective of Oando Foundation’s teacher training Oando Foundation improves the quality programme is to improve the skills of 1,600 teachers of learning and the school environment in one hundred (100) adopted schools over a period by renovating existing structures, of three years (2016-2018). The programme is expected to improve teachers’ skills in modern building new structures and ensuring pedagogy and content knowledge in three core access to clean water and sanitation subjects of Mathematics, English Language and facilities in each of our adopted schools. Science and Technology. It is also expected to 5. Partnerships and Advocacy Awards strengthen the capacity of 100 head teachers and assistant head teachers in school management and In line with the Foundation’s renovation strategy, the leadership. In 2016, 1,608 teachers and 47 head 5.1 Educate a Child, Qatar The power of individual donors combined with external following renovation work was carried out: teachers and assistants were trained respectively OF partnered with Educate a Child Qatar to enroll support from business, government and development • Construction of a block of three classrooms at Sabon across 40 adopted schools. 60,000 children in school by 2018. As a result of partners enables us to empower communities and Kaura Primary School, Bauchi State participatory community assessments across the strengthen institutions vested with the mandate of • Construction of a block of toilets at Nyibango Primary 4.2 School Based Management Committees (SBMCs) country, OF was able to garner support for Out-ofeducation. Our efforts to transform the basic education School, Adamawa State Oando Foundation has identified the need to increase School children through evidence-based advocacy in sector in Nigeria have been well received by communities • Construction of school perimeter fence at LEA Primary community involvement in education. The Foundation Northern Nigeria. Stakeholder engagements resulted and governments. Our interventions have given rise to School, Babale, Jos, Plateau State develops and empowers SBMCs to become effective in allocation of additional funds to schools, community various awards and prepares us for the challenges ahead. • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms, 1 block of 3 mobilization of resources and enrolment of over Sustainability at contributing to transformative education. Our toilets, and provision of potable water at Randawa capacity building programmes help improve the 12,000 children in school in the 2015/2016 academic Primary School, Katsina State quality of education at the local level. In 2016, Oando session. • Construction of a block of three classrooms in LEA Foundation trained over 246 SBMC members in over Sustainability is at the very core of our Primary School, Rido, Kaduna State 16 communities. Oando foundation has partnered with 5.2 USAID Education Crisis Response in Nigeria interventions at Oando Foundation and • Renovation of 1 block of 5 classrooms, 1 block of 3 Our advocacy efforts also gave rise to a Partnership toilets, and provision of potable water at Muslim the DFID Education Support System in Nigeria education remains the most potent tool in (ESSPIN) to roll out trainings in five states across with USAID Education Crisis Response in Nigeria to Community Primary School, Omupo, Kwara State Nigeria. mainstream 500 internally displaced children from our quest to transform lives. Our • Renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms and provision informal learning centers to adopted public primary accomplishments in the past year, shows of potable water supply at Umaru Audi Primary 4.3 Local Government Education Authorities schools in Adamawa and Bauchi states and support us the great task that lies ahead in School, Niger State The overall aim of the LGEA capacity strengthening their reintegration with Education Starter kits. • Renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms at Ibrahim component is to improve the availability of quality transforming Nigerian public schools to Gusau Nizzamiyya Islamiyat Model Primary School education data through improved knowledge and 5.3 “Poultry Pen to Primary School Campaign” modern citadels of learning. 2. Scholarships usage of functional Education Management OF mobilized support for vulnerable kids in Ogun Information System (EMIS) by LGEA officials. This is State, Nigeria through the “Poultry Pen to Primary Oando Foundation Scholarship programme remains based on the premise that improved knowledge and School Project”. The project aims to raise funds to one of the key drivers of increased enrollment and usage of functional EMIS by LGEA officials will build a befitting school for over 1000 pupils in Itori retention of pupils in our adopted schools. The improve the availability of quality education data for Ewekoro Primary School who currently learn in a Programme supports children from relatively low planning, resource allocation and performance derelict poultry. This project was made possible by income backgrounds, who have excelled in their monitoring and evaluation at the local level. In 2016, the collaboration of Corporate, Individual and academics to transit to and complete Secondary OF completed the 1st stream training for the pilot institutional donors including Nigerian Celebrity School whilst building a culture of excellence among cluster of 8 LGEA’s and 3 SUBEB’s covering 15 Actress, Kate Henshaw and the United States children in Oando adopted schools. To date, over schools across 3 states in North East Nigeria. Consulate in Lagos, Nigeria. The pupils will start 1,000 pupils have benefited from the scheme. In learning in a new school in 2017. 2016, Oando Foundation awarded 197, increasing the number of current scholars to 524. 62 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 63 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE How far have we come? continued QUALITY EDUCATION (SDG 4), CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION (SDG 6), GENDER EQUALITY (SDG 5) SUPPLY CHAIN STAKEHOLDER Continuous Vendor & Business Partner EHSSQ STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT Assessment There were engagements with stakeholder Internal Stakeholders Employees As part of the vendor selection process, a capability In 2016, the supply chain organization experienced a assessment was carried out to assess the technical groups which were predominately major restructuring of its operations. The objective was to capability and EHSSQ Compliance of new vendors. Also, regulatory agencies with supervisory optimize operations while aligning it to the business the vendors go through a Due Diligence process to oversight as specified in the Nigerian Legal strategy of each entity. Internal stakeholders were ascertain ethics and governance compliance as well as engaged on these changes which were primarily driven other areas to drive cost competitiveness and quality of Framework. by the divestment of the downstream and rig businesses. service delivery. A vendor whose performance has been The stakeholder engagements happen bi-annually and found unsatisfactory may be blacklisted in accordance Key Regulatory Agencies included: 89% occur via communication channels such as internal with the Oando Vendor blacklisting policy. In 2016, Oando (i) Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) memos and direct unit engagements. did not blacklist any vendor. (ii) Federal Ministry of Environment (iii) Federal Ministry of Works The critical changes to the supply chain organization are Our EHSSQ process and involvement in (iv) National Inland Waterway Authority (NIWA) listed below. contracting helps eliminate the possibility of (v) Lagos State Ministry of Environment 1 Decentralization of the vendor management function to (vi) Lagos State Infrastructure Maintenance and enable each business focus primarily on their strategic child and/or forced labor practices as it Regulatory Agency (LASIMRA) partners and manage their business risks/ exposures involves obtaining resume and proof of (vii) State Environmental Protection Agencies directly. The governance team in each business unit experience of the vendor’s employees, was still charged with due diligence function. The regulatory agencies are required by law to grant 2 Budget Spend decentralization: Each of the divested provision of a fitness to work certificate approvals and permits before projects and operations can businesses were to own and manage their supply chain which includes employee bio-data to commence. All regulatory requirements for each project management process and team in order to align with and operations were identified and mapped to the specific their current business strategy. ascertain age and other parameters. government agency providing such oversight function. Communication to internal stakeholders was to ensure Local Content All stakeholders were considered priority the following: As part of our local content drive and in compliance with i Requests are channeled to the appropriate teams because failure to identify, engage laid down statutes, 89% of the vendors used in 2016 were ii Eliminate any down time to business operations. local vendors accounting for 95% of the total monies and meet their requirements to the expended. This demonstrates our commitment towards commencement of a project or operation External Stakeholders Vendors & Business 89% of the vendors used in 2016 building local capacity and strengthening local vendor can have a negative impact resulting in Partner Engagement were local vendors accounting capabilities. These vendors are subjected to the same vendor selection process and quality terms as our potential legal, reputational and financial A vendor forum was organized by the supply chain team international vendors. losses. for 95% of the total monies with the objective of keeping our strategic partners and expended Improving Vendor Experience vendors abreast of our current position as a company, Work plans were sent to regulatory agencies with given the divestment strategy, low oil prices, high interest presentations to provide insight into the project or rates coupled with militancy and vandalism in the oil and Issues arising from vendor engagements, have been operation planned. Presentations were made on projects gas industry. centered on prolonged payment delays, tax receipts from or operations basis with informal meetings held as follow tax deductions and reputational issues for Oando PLC. In up. Engagements were carried out by emails, formal In the forum, we shared the vision of the organization to view of this, the following plan was instituted to address meetings, telephone calls, one-on-one meetings. further strengthen our position by seeking increased their concerns. Stakeholder Issues and Concerns profitability and improved payable scheduling. A number • Ensure prompt payment of vendor invoices by working of vendors lauded the tenacity of the Company and with the Finance department to secure data for the requested improvement in payment of tax obligations to These issues are usually negotiated, agreed and Account Receivables by the respective entities for enable them get the necessary tax relief using withholding documented in the MOU signed with the communities. aggressive debt recovery tax receipts. This message was received by the finance Stakeholder feedback was reported to management as • To avoid reconciliation issues with the vendors, team who were in attendance. soon as they were received and the requisite steer payment is to be made based on the date of the obtained to guide in subsequent engagements with the invoice. The governance team also used the opportunity to stakeholder. Critical stakeholder feedback were usually • Engage the finance department quarterly on payment re-emphasize the Oando Governance requirements and presented at Board meetings. for taxes and prompt remittance of withholding tax business ethics position. receipts. Critical concerns were communicated through memos, presentation and emails to the company’s senior In 2016, the Oando PLC procurement team executives who took necessary actions required to resolve was able to achieve cost savings of over all issues and progress our projects and operations. $500,000 without any budget overrun. 64 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 65 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE Targets & Data Schedule of 2016 Activities Oando Foundation Adopt-A-School Scholarship Award for 565 pupils. Teacher Training: 565 • 1,608 Teachers and 107 Head Teachers/Assistants trained across 49 Newly established ICT Centre equipped with computers, projectors, adopted schools printers, solar power, and furniture at 7 adopted schools: • Provision of teaching and learning materials to 47 adopted schools • General Muhammed Buhari Primary School, Daura, Katsina Special Projects: • Central Primary School Udubo, Bauchi • LEA Primary School, Babale, Plateau • Ahmed Danbaba Primary School, Sokoto • Donation of Back-to-School materials to 500 IDPs to support their • Salihu Anka Primary School, Sokoto mainstreaming into formal learning schools • Muslim Community Primary School, Omupo, Kwara • Scholarship Award to 5 indigenous pupils of Ogun State to Nobelhouse • Gidado Primary School, Katsina College • Solar Power for ICT Centre installed at Gwadabawa Primary School, Yola, • Scholarship grant to 4 university beneficiaries on the Ebola Education Trust Adamawa Fund • Donation of T-Shirts, fez-caps, exercise books, and straw hats towards Infrastructure Development: extra-curricular activities: Inter-house Sports at Idi-Odo Primary School, Gbagada, Lagos, Ogo-Oluwa Primary School, Gbagada, Lagos, Temidire • Construction of 1 block of 6 classrooms at Local Gov't Nursery & Primary Primary School, Gbagada, Lagos, Archbishop Taylor Memorial Primary School, Jagunna Itori, Ewekoro School, Victoria Island, Lagos, and Local Government Primary School, Isolo, • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms, 1 block of 3 toilets, and provision of Lagos potable water supply at Randawa Primary School, Mani, Katsina • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms at Sabon Kaura Primary School, 2016 target: Oando Foundation Bauchi Adopt-A-School Scholarship • Renovation of 1 block of 5 classrooms, 1 block of 3 toilets, and provision of potable water supply at Muslim Community Primary School, Omupo, Kwara Award for 565 pupils. • Renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms at Ibrahim Gusau Model Primary School, Sokoto • Renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms and provision of potable water supply at Umaru Audu Primary School, Minna, Niger • Construction of perimeter fence at LEA Primary School, Babale, Plateau • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms at LGEA Primary School, Rido, Kaduna Infrastructure Development: • Construction of 1 block of 6 classrooms at Local Gov't Nursery & Primary School, Jagunna Itori, Ewekoro • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms, 1 block of 3 toilets, and provision of potable water supply at Randawa Primary School, Mani, Katsina • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms at Sabon Kaura Primary School, Bauchi • Renovation of 1 block of 5 classrooms, 1 block of 3 toilets, and provision of potable water supply at Muslim Community Primary School, Omupo, Kwara • Renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms at Ibrahim Gusau Model Primary School, Sokoto • Renovation of 1 block of 3 classrooms and provision of potable water supply at Umaru Audu Primary School, Minna, Niger • Construction of perimeter fence at LEA Primary School, Babale, Plateau • Construction of 1 block of 3 classrooms at LGEA Primary School, Rido, Kaduna Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE 66 67 Targets & Data OUR ECONOMIC OUTLOOK 2016 CONSOLIDATED GAS UTILIZATION TABLE 2016 Targets 2016 Outcome & Comments 2017 Targets Asset Total Gas Total Gas Total Gas Total Total % Gas Produced Produced Utilized Gas Flared line loss Utilized Profitability (JV) (OER) (OER) (OER) (OER) (OER) MMSCF MMSCF MMSCF MMSCF MMSCF MMSCF Return to profitability which will be driven A marginally profitable year Profitability will be driven by focused cost through improved cost and capex and liquidity management, with significant NAOC JV 351,370 70,274 60,598 3,622 6,054 86.2 management focus selective oil and gas production initiatives planned for 2017. Ebendo 4,578 2,060 299 1,761 14 Qua Iboe 1,355 542 2.4 540 0.4 Dividend EHSSQ TAREGET AND DATA 2016 Return the company to profitability to Dividend was not planned to resume in Return the company to profitability to resume payment of dividends by 2018 year 2016 resume payment of dividends by 2018 year end end Oando Energy Service Oando Energy Resources Oando Gas Power Oando Downstream Total (Oando PLC) Year 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Fatalities (Staff/Contractor) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Capital Structure Exposure man hours 517,747 112,525 241,837 175,365 913,459 810,979 1,272,017 2,915,582 2,945,060 4,014,451 Lost Time Injury 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Deleveraging our balance sheets to create Concluded the divestment of OESL (Rig Focus further on reduction of our debts to a platform for long term profitability business), Akute Power Limited (from the create a platform for long term profitability Lost Time Injury Frequency 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0 0.00 0.00 0 0 midstream business) and the Downstream while driving growth via our dollar Medical Treated Case 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 2 2 business, and as a result, Oando PLC’s denominated upstream and downstream debt profile which stood at US$2billion as trading businesses Lost Workday Case 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 at December 2015 witnessed a 60% Total Recordable Incident 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 3 2 3 reduction by December 2016, to US$812 Total Recordable Incident Frequency 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.57 1.03 0.68 0.75 million. Environmental Spill 2 0 0 0 0 0 9 9 0 0 Hazard Identication Reporting 6,895 15,458 91 137 1,325 841 435 489 8,746 16,925 Growth & Recapitalisation Fire incidents 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 5 5 5 Gas leaks 0 0 0 0 2 3 0 0 2 3 The dollar earning upstream & trading Successful completion of our strategic Sustained growth via our dollar earning businesses main focus for growth. partial deleveraging initiatives whilst still holding upstream and downstream trading NEW EMPLOYEES HIRED WITHIN THE REPORTING PERIOD BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER divestment from downstream & midstream indirect interest in the downstream retail business, continue to provide the businesses to result in capital injection to and mid-stream gas distribution necessary support to our new partners in the group operations. the midstream and downstream Age Groups Gas & Power Downstream Energy Resources Group Totals businesses. 25 35 (Male) 0 0 0 0 0 OANDO FOUNDATION TARGETS AND DATA 25 35 (Female) 0 0 0 2 0 36 45 (Male) 0 0 0 0 0 2016 Targets 2016 Outcome and Comments 36 45 (Female) 0 0 0 0 0 46 55 (Male) 0 0 0 0 0 Education Target met. 46 55 (Female) 0 0 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 2 0 To adopt 22 schools in 2016; increasing 22 schools adopted in 2016, bringing total number of schools adopted and supported to 80. the total number of schools adopted and supported to 80. Increase host community participation in Capacity of School-Based Management Committees (SBMC) strengthened in host EXITED EMPLOYEES WITHIN THE REPORTING PERIOD BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER Oando Foundation’s programme communities, leading to an increase in number of out-of-school children enrolled and interventions across adopted schools. resources mobilized to support projects in adopted schools. Age Groups Gas & Power Downstream Energy Resources Group Totals 25 35 (Male) 1 1 3 7 12 Establish strategic partnerships with key 7 new partnerships established (technical and financial) to support implementation of LGEA, actors to deepen quality of AASI ICT, and Teacher Training components of the AASI. 25 35 (Female) 1 1 0 3 5 programme implementation. 36 45 (Male) 1 2 0 2 5 36 45 (Female) 0 2 0 2 4 Employee Volunteering Target unmet. 46 55 (Male) 1 0 4 1 6 To increase number of employee-led Divestment of Oando subsidiaries in 2016 had direct impact on the Employee Volunteer volunteer activities by 20% Programme. Focus in 2016 was to re-structure the EVP based on existing realities to ensure 46 55 (Female) 0 0 0 0 0 continuity. Total 4 6 7 15 32 68 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 69 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE GRI Content Index Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure and/or URL(s) GR 101: FOUNDATION 2016 GR 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organisation Page 2 Disclosure 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Pages 8-9 Disclosure 102-3 Location of headquarters Page 8 Disclosure 102-4 Location of operations Page 8 Disclosure 102-5 Ownership and legal form Page 6 Disclosure 102-6 Markets served Pages 8-9 Disclosure 102-7 Scale of organization Pages 8-9 Disclosure 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Page 47 Disclosure 102-9 Supply chain Page 39 Disclosure 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Page 39 supply chain Disclosure 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Pages 16-19 Disclosure 102-12 External initiatives Page 14, page 34 Disclosure 102-13 Membership of associations Page 34 GR 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH Disclosure 103-1 Page 29 GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Management Approach Pages 45-46 Disclosure 201-1 a. Direct economic value generated and Page 46 distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis, including the basic components for the organization’s global operations as listed below. If data are presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision in addition to reporting the following basic components: i. Direct economic value generated: revenues Page 46 ii. Economic value distributed: operating Page 46 costs, employee wages and benefits, payments to providers of capital, payments to government by country, and community investments; iii. Economic value retained: ‘direct economic Page 46 value generated’ less ‘economic value distributed’. b. Where significant, report EVG&D separately Page 46 at country, regional, or market levels, and the criteria used for defining significance. Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE 70 71 GRI Content Index Page number(s) Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure GRI Standard Disclosure and/or URL(s) and/or URL(s) GRI 201: ECONOMIC a. If th e plan’s liabilities are met by the GRI 203: INDIRECT PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC IMPACTS Disclosure 201-3 Page 48 Management Approach Pages 53-56 a. Extent of development of significant organization’s general resources, the estimated value of those liabilities. Disclosure 203-1 Pages 23-27, Pages b. If a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s infrastructure investments and services 54, 56, 60 Page 48 supported. b. Current or expected impacts on pension liabilities: i. The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities Page 48 Pages 23-27, pages are estimated to be covered by the assets communities and local economies, including 54, 56 that have been set aside to meet them; positive and negative impacts where relevant. c. Whether these investments and services are ii. The basis on which that estimate has been Page 48 arrived at; Pagess 23, page 50 iii. When the estimate was made. Page 48 commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagements. c. If a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension Page 48 Disclosure 203-2 a. Examples of significant identified indirect Pages 23-27, pages liabilities is not fully covered, explain the economic impacts of the organization, 50-52 strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to including positive and negative impacts. b. Significance of the indirect economic work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve Pages 50-52 full coverage. impacts in the context of external benchmarks d. Percentage of salary contributed by and stakeholder priorities, such as national Page 48 and international standards, protocols, and employee or employer. policy agendas. e. Level of participation in retirement plans, GRI 204: PROCUREMENT Page 48 PRACTICES such as participation in mandatory or voluntary Management Approach Page 39 schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact. a. Total monetary value of financial assistance GRI 205: ANTICORRUPTION Disclosure 201-4 Page 48 Management Approach Page 34 a. Total number and percentage of operations received by the organisation from any government during the reporting period, Disclosure 205-1 Page 64 including: assessed for risks related to corruption. b. The information in 201-4-a by country Page 48 b. Significant risks related to corruption Page 17 identified through the risk assessment. c. Whether, and the extent to which, any Page 48 Disclosure 205-2 a. Total number and percentage of Page 34 government is present in the shareholding governance body members that the structure. organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, GRI 202: MARKET broken down by region. PRESENCE b. Total number and percentage of employees Management Approach Pages 47-48 Page 34 Disclosure 202-1 a. When a significant proportion of employees Page 48 that the organization’s anti-corruption policies are compensated based on wages subject to and procedures have been communicated to, minimum wage rules, report the relevant ratio broken down by employee category and region. c. Total number and percentage of business of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. partners that the organization’s anti-corruption Page 34 b. When a significant proportion of other Page 48 policies and procedures have been workers (excluding employees) performing the communicated to, broken down by type of organization’s activities are compensated business partner and region. Describe if the based on wages subject to minimum wage organization’s anti-corruption policies and rules, describe the actions taken to determine procedures have been communicated to any whether these workers are paid above the other persons or organizations. d. Total number and percentage of minimum wage. Page 34 c. Whether a local minimum wage is absent or Page 48 governance body members that have received variable at significant locations of operation, by training on anti-corruption, broken down by gender. In circumstances in which different region. e. Total number and percentage of employees minimums can be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. Page 34 that have received training on anti-corruption, d. The definition used for ‘significant locations Page 8 broken down by employee category and of operation.’ region. Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE 72 73 GRI Content Index Page number(s) Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure GRI Standard Disclosure and/or URL(s) and/or URL(s) GRI 302: ENERGY Disclosure 302-1 a. Total fuel consumption within the Page 40 GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY Management Approach Page 41 a. For each operational site owned, leased, organization from non-renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types Disclosures 304-1 Pages 40, 41 used. managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas b. Total energy consumption within the and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas, the following information: a. Nature of significant direct and indirect organization, in joules or multiples. a. Energy consumption outside of the Disclosure 304-2 Page 40 Disclosure 302-2 Page 40 impacts on biodiversity with reference to one organization, in joules or multiple or more of the following: Disclosure 302-4 a. Amount of reductions in energy Page 40 Disclosure 304-3 a. Size and location of all habitat areas Pages 40, 41 consumption achieved as a direct result of protected or restored, and whether the conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules success of the restoration measure was or is or multiples. approved by independent external b. Types of energy included in the reductions; professionals. whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, b. Whether partnerships exist with third parties steam, or all. to protect or restore habitat areas distinct from c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy where the organization has overseen and implemented restoration or protection consumption, such as base year or baseline, measures. c. Status of each area based on its condition at including the rationale for choosing it. d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, the close of the reporting period. d. Standards, methodologies, and and/or calculation tools used. assumptions used. GRI 303: WATER AND EFFLUENTS GRI 305: EMISSIONS Management Approach Pages 40, 61 a. A description of how the organization Management Approach Page 41 Disclosure 303-1 Pages 41, 51 interacts with water, including how and where Disclosure 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Page 40 water is withdrawn, consumed, and discharged, and the water-related impacts Disclosure 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Page 40 caused or contributed to, or directly linked to (ODS) the organization’s activities, products or services by a business relationship (e.g., GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE impacts caused by runoff). Management Approach Page 41 b. A description of how water-related impacts Page 61 Disclosure 306-2 Water waste by type and disposal method Page 41 are addressed, including how the organization Disclosure 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Page 41 works with stakeholders to steward water as a shared resource, and how it engages with GRI 307: suppliers or customers with significant waterENVIRONMENTAL related impacts. Management Approach Pages 39, 4041 Disclosure 303-2 a. A description of any minimum standards set Page 41 COMPLIANCE Disclosure 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Pages 4041 for the quality of effluent discharge, and how regulations these minimum standards were determined, GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT including: Management Approach Page 47 Disclosure 401-1 New employee hire and employee turnover Pages 4748 Disclosure 401-2 Benefits provided to full time employee that are Page 48 not provided to temporary or part-time employees Disclosure 401-3 Parental leave Page 48 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE 74 75 GRI Content Index Page number(s) Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure GRI Standard Disclosure and/or URL(s) and/or URL(s) GRI 402: GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR/MANAGEMENT ASSESSMENT Management Approach Page 49 Management Approach Pages 44, 65 RELATIONS Disclosure 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human Pages 45, 65 rights reviews or impact assessments GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Management Approach Page 44 Disclosure 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Page 45 procedures Disclosure 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Page 45 management–worker health and safety Disclosure 412-3 Significant investment agreements and Page 45 committees contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Disclosure 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Page 44 occupational diseases, lost days, and GRI 413: LOCAL absenteeism, and number of work-related COMMUNITIES fatalities Management Approach Pages 10, 13, 20 Disclosure 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Page 44 Disclosure 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Pages 2327, agreements with trade unions impact assessments, and development 5059 programs GRI 404: TRAINING AND Disclosure 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential Pages 2327, 50EDUCATION Management Approach Page 48 negative impacts on local communities 59 Disclosure 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Pages 4849 transition assistance programs GRI 415: PUBLIC POLICY Management Approach Page 46 Disclosure 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Pages 4849 performance and career development reviews Disclosure 415-1 Political contributions Page 46 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 419: Management Approach Page 47 SOCIOECONOMIC Management Approach Pages 21, 3234 COMPLIANCE Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Pages 4748 Disclosure 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Disclosure 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Pages 4748 and economic area women to men GRI 406: NONDISCRIMINATION Management Approach Pages 4748 GRI 408: CHILD LABOUR Management Approach Pages 49, 64 Disclosure 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Page 64 incidents of child labor GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR Management Approach Page 64 GRI 410: SECURITY PRACTICES Management Approach Page 45 Disclosure 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights Page 45 policies or procedures Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE 76 77 Feedback In preparing this report, we have focused on including the particular type of information which we believe would interest our stakeholders. However we are open to receiving any feedback in the form of questions, comments or where clarification is required regarding any section of this report, please contact the following: Ayotola Jagun Chief Compliance Officer and Company Secretary ajagun@oandoplc.com or Alero Balogun Head of Corporate Communications albalogun@Oandoplc.com 78 Oando PLC Sustainability Report 2016 CREATING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE
