1 ABOUT THE REPORT 2 ABOUT THE REPORT The 2016-2017 Alfa Sustainability Remember and founding Board of Direcused by the Global Reporting Initiative port is the second bi-annual report tors Member of Global Compact Net(GRI) Guidelines, the first and most produced by Alfa. The first report was work Lebanon (GCNL) since 2014. Alfa widely adopted global standards for produced in 2015 and can be accessed has been producing regular reports on sustainability reporting (102-54). Alfa’s following this link: https://www.alfa. progress through this national effort. sustainability report contents are also com.lb/en/csr (102-52) for more information, kindaligned with the 10 UN Global Comly check the GCNL website: http:// pact principles on Human Rights, AnThis report compiles an overview of globalcompact-lebanon.com ti-Corruption, Labor and Environment. Alfa’s recent progress and Alfa’s report also integrates achievements on the susand maps to the 17 Sustaintainability front, providing able Development Goals in depth reporting in re(SDGs) and their intricate lation to the three basic indicators and benchmarks, pillars of sustainability: which form the essence of the social, economic and the UN 2030 agenda for environmental compoSustainable Development. nents, which are mapped in turn to the five pillars of The information made sustainability which form available through this report the core of Alfa’s Sustainis intended to cover the ability Strategy including timeframe ranging from Economic Spillover, Good January 1st 2016 till 31st DeGovernance, Communicember 2017. (102-50) ty Investment, Customer Centricity/ This report is primarily organized Experience, Employee Nurturing. The around the materiality aspects of Susreport showcases the major positive tainability, which are the most relevant externalities associated with various and important interventions in relation aspects of Alfa operations for the years to the three pillars of sustainability as 2016-2017. This biannual report on deemed by key Alfa internal and exprogress demonstrates Alfa’s deterternal stakeholders, as well as the opmination to share in full transparency erational context of Alfa in Lebanon. our progress and milestones in relation Alfa used the same methodology in to sustainability and our commitment this report as we had done in our preto improve our performance, and opvious report. (102-49) Accordingly, this timize our positive impact on society report builds on the principles of mayear after year. Alfa is also an active teriality, inclusivity and responsiveness 3 TABLE OF CONTENT About the Report 3 EMBRACING GOOD GOVERNANCE: OUR BALANCE & FOUNDATION PILLAR ONE: GOOD GOVERNANCE ABOUT ALFA: OUR IDENTITY Corporate Identity 41 CEO Message 9 Commitments 41 About Alfa 11 Board of Directors 42 Services 13 Organizational Structure 42 OUR SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP: Policies, Codes and Guidelines 44 TOWARDS 2030 AGENDA Enterprise Risk Management 45 Sustainability Roadmap 16 Anti-Corruption 49 Essence of our Corporate Sustainability 17 Supplier Assessment on Environmental, 51 Strategy (CSS) Social and Governance Issues SERVING CUSTOMERS: OUR 2016-2017 COMMITMENT CUSTOMERS AS OUR LIFEBLOOD TO THE GLOBAL GOALS PILLAR TWO: CUSTOMER CENTRICITY AND EXPERIENCE Highlights of 2016-2017 21 Awards 26 Superior Customer Service 54 Customer Experience Management (CEM) 54 ZOOMING ON MATERIALITY: WHAT MATTERS MOST Voice of Customer Program and Customer 55 Satisfaction Stakeholder Engagement 29 Interactions 58 Means of Engagement 33 Technological Innovation 59 Purpose of Engagement 34 Services 60 Stakeholder Interests 34 Alfa Store Innovation 62 Collective Bargaining 35 Addressing Customer Needs 64 Materiality Assessment 35 International Sharing and 67 Sustainability Topics 36 Roaming Agreements External Priority Material 36 National Network Coverage 67 Alfa’s Materiality Matrix 37 Customer Privacy and Data Security 69 4 TABLE OF CONTENT CREATING ECONOMIC SPILLOVER: CONTRIBUTING TO THE LEBANESE ECONOMY IS KEY PILLAR THREE: ECONOMIC SPILLOVER Economic Development and 71 Financial Performance Supporting Entrepreneurship 72 Value Chain 74 Alfa’s Contribution to the GDP 75 NURTURING EMPLOYEES: WE START FROM WITHIN PILLAR FOUR: EMPLOYEE NURTURING Training and Development 77 Diversity and Equal Opportunities 80 Benefits for all Employees 84 Compensation and Benefits 84 Promotions 85 Employee Health, Safety, and Wellbeing 85 Performance Management Program 85 and Career Development Talent Management 86 Disciplinary and Grievance Mechanisms 86 Human Rights 86 5 TABLE OF CONTENT INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITY: BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS PILLAR FIVE: COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Alfa-4Life CSR Program 89 Give 4-Life: Engaging Community by 95 Supporting Social Causes Youth Programs and Digital Inclusion 98 Alfa 4-Sports 99 Drive 4-Life 100 Miscellaneous Awareness Campaigns 102 Green Stewardships/ Alfa 4-Nature 102 Closing Statement 106 Engage with us 107 APPENDICES GRI Index 109 Implementation of the 10 Principles 114 of the UN Global Compact Implementation of the 17 Sustainable 116 Development Goals 6 7 ABOUT ALFA: OUR IDENTITY 8 ABOUT ALFA: OUR IDENTITY CEO MESSAGE I am pleased to announce the publication of our 2016-2017 biannual Sustainability Report. We are very proud to say that we have moved from a traditional mobile network operator to a digital service provider and to, lately, what we personally label as an HP or Happiness Provider, which is a combination of the human side of telco and digital innovation at its best. Over the years, we have reinforced our efforts to align our strategy and operations with the 10 principles of UN Global Compact focusing on: Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Today, we have gone a step further by also mapping our progress in relation to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their intricate indicators and benchmarks. At Alfa, we are striving every day to translate our efforts on the sustainability front into real onground initiatives to create value for our stakeholders, our employees, our business partners and the surrounding community. Given the major challenges we are facing in the world, where organizations are working hard to foster and propel all kinds of innovations, we understand the importance of agility as a main catalyst in our operations and we try to embrace the latest technologies to serve our clients, community and employees. We are leading in technology innovation where the number of our data subscribers is growing rapidly, thus challenging traditional silos and embracing the permeable borders of interconnectivity. We are very proud of the fact that for the last six quarters, we have been scoring very positively in terms of internet rankings throughout especially on 4G. As per OpenSignal’s report, we have moved in 2018 from the fifth position in the region to the second position in the last two quarters. At the global level, we are proud to have ranked as 29 out of 124 countries with a throughput of around 37 Mbps. This shows that the efforts deployed in the past couple of years and the investments we have been making in terms of introducing state-of-the art technologies such as 4G and LTE Advanced are paying off by improving Lebanon’s rankings and our customers’ experience and positively MR. MARWAN HAYEK contributing to making people happier on a daily basis. 9 When we started this journey in 2014, Alfa was one of the It is with great pleasure that I introduce the second edition of first organizations in Lebanon to take part in the UN 2030 Alfa’s sustainability report for the year 2016-2017, showcasing Agenda. Today, we serve as pioneers and national champions the progress made in relation to our five sustainability pillars for SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. We have which map to the three bottom lines of people, planet and taken several measurements to ensure that our quality profits, to which we have added important components service goes hand in hand with a strengthened sense of relating to employee nurturing and good governance. We are social commitment and corporate responsibility to reduce also committed to share all the information with our various inequalities, bolster national economic growth and protect stakeholders using multiple channels of communication. our planet. Our initiatives in Alfa 4-life have addressed children with communication needs and “People with Iron Will”, I grasp the opportunity to express my deepest gratitude Women Empowerment, Road Safety, and the Environment to the Alfa family whose endless and devoted efforts have among others. made this progress and this report possible. Our Alfa team remains at your disposal and welcomes comments and I am immensely proud of the strides we are making and feedback from our different stakeholders at any point in the way we are harnessing the power of our global scale to time (102-14). drive meaningful change across countries and continents Marwan Hayek and to be the chosen Lebanese digital service provider par excellence. We are expanding our network by almost 50% by adding additional 500 sites to the network, which will enable us to cover 100% of the Lebanese territory and population. Our stores are customer and user friendly, particularly targeting the youth to enjoy a unique experience of end-to-end interactions and services. Our goal is to empower our community through our sustainability initiatives while ensuring fast secure and reliable connectivity. As we have finalized the deployment of our 4G LTE-A network, moving forward, we are preparing the infrastructure to launch the first few 5G sites in Lebanon. 10 ABOUT ALFA: OUR IDENTITY 2013; and the first 4G+ live sites in Lebanon in Q3 2015 and Q2 ABOUT ALFA 2016. Alfa also launched in 2018, in collaboration with Ericsson, the first integrated 5G live experience in Lebanon with live demos highlighting Virtual Reality and the huge 5G speeds. MIC 1 S.A.L, -brand nameAlfa (102-1) is a mobile network operator that provides mobile lines and related services in Alfa is reporting on sustainability on a bi-annual basis (102-50). Lebanon. (102-2) The headquarters are located in Parallel towers, The previous report “connect4life Alfa Sustainable report 2014Dekwaneh, Lebanon (102-3). 2015” (102-51) can be found online on the Alfa website. Orascom Telecom Media and Technology (OTMT) manages Alfa since 2009. It is the first Lebanese mobile network owned by the republic of Lebanon. Alfa only operates in Lebanon, (102MOTIVE 4) capitalizing on the vast know-how and international expertise of OTMT in order to deliver quality and professional solutions In the domain of sustainability, Alfa’s motive is fueled by a strong for the mobile sector in Lebanon. Alfa currently serves close to 2 sense of belonging. As proud citizens of our community, we provide million subscribers and its state of the art network covers 99% of competitive telecommunications services, while maintaining Lebanon (102-6). the highest quality of service and upholding our sustainability MIC1 S.A.L (Alfa) is a Joint Stock Company with the legal commitments. registration number R.C. 72514 Baabda; (102-5) serving the Lebanese market with a 48% market share. Alfa customers include individuals, business sector, governmental entities, military VISION institutions, media bodies, as well as inbound roamers holding Our main aspiration is to engage and lead change within the non-local GSM lines and using the Alfa network. telecommunications industry by making use of advanced technologies and adaptable mobile solutions for the Lebanese On October 25, 2011, Alfa became the first mobile operator to market. Alfa is creating an innovative model for social responsibility launch 3G+ mobile broadband services in Lebanon. In another major technological achievement, the company was the first to and fostering the engagement of our stakeholders through an agile commercially launch 4G-LTE services in the country on May 15, and innovative value creation system. 11 Being a Socially Responsible BELIEFS Corporate Citizen: Our success is based on several components mainly: By contributing to the community in which we live and grow in, and by achieving and The Potential of our People maintaining the highest standards of ethical conduct and integrity. By nurturing our talented teams and developing knowledge and skills, we enable our people to always thrive and pave the Acting with agility way for sustainable growth. By reinforcing our ability to adapt to complex client We strive to build a sustainable business model by investing requirements, while keeping abreast of changes in the in our talents and engaging our stakeholders; this enables us market and the business environment, and by embracing to continuously pioneer responsible operations and initiatives, the latest technologies in terms of energy savings and which enable our society and the environment to benefit operational efficiency towards renewable energy sourcing. from our actions. We strive to provide innovative services to our clients by maximizing satisfaction through continuous improvement The Power of Agility of our quality management system. We create competitive advantage and strategic differentiation, by constantly enhancing our business Customer Centricity: processes, talent management, and technologies. We also aim to deliver outstanding customer experience by striving We are committed to provide state-of-the-art and for excellence and anticipating our customers’ needs, thus innovative services to our clients by maximizing turning them into brand ambassadors. satisfaction through continuous improvement of our quality management system. The Power of our Customers We believe in delivering an Outstanding Customer ASPIRATIONS Experience by striving for Excellence and anticipating our We are the caretakers of our people. We are leading customers’ needs, thus, turning them into our Brand corporate citizens and take proactive action to create Ambassadors. positive changes in people’s lives. The Power of Sustainability We strive to maintain our leading position by aligning our sustainable engagements with our business strategy and We believe in building a Sustainable Business Model by creating shared value in the process. investing our talents and engaging our stakeholders for the benefit of our Society, our People and our Environment We lead change by conceiving and enacting innovative through pioneering Responsible operations and initiatives. business opportunities, as well as modeling emerging trends for the interest of our community, resulting in optimal business performance characterized by service excellence COMMITMENTS flavored by a strong sense of community giving and We are committed to: enhancement. The Wellbeing of our People: Finally, we provide an exceptional customer experience, by placing our customers at the center of our business and By improving their lives, creating opportunities, strategy, and delivering greater value towards long-term and building their capacities in a fair and customer satisfaction and loyalty. nurturing environment. 12 FIGURE 1 SERVICES SERVICES (102-7) Prepaid/Postpaid Mobile Handsets Lines and Bundles and Routers Voice SMS & Data Roaming Mobile Internet for Postpaid and and Broadband Prepaid Over 3G+ and 4G+ Networks Machine to Machine Services Bundles Offers and Promotions Alfa Media SMS Service BAYTI a Fixed Wireless landline Corporate Offers VAS Services Alfa Business: Private Network for Business Entertainment Services 13 14 OUR SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP TOWARDS 2030 AGENDA 15 OUR SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP TOWARDS 2030 AGENDA SUSTAINABILITY ROADMAP We announce our pledge to further support sustainability Mr. Marwan Hayek has been championing SDG 9 on and the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, and serving as Alfa is fully committed to the UN 2030 agenda and the 17 a key change maker in leading a telecom company that SDGs, and has been playing an instrumental role through its not only delivers quality and professional solutions to involvement in Global Compact Network Lebanon (GCNL) Lebanon’s mobile sector but also balances and reconciles for the past years, and also through the championing role this with full commitment to the social good in Lebanon. of the CEO Marwan Hayek for SDG 9 relating to Industry, Alfa has also been trying to leverage the latest innovations Innovation and Infrastructure. This progress on the SDGs to best serve society. in general, and on SDG 9 in specific, is showcased in our report and integrated at the core of our business. The SDGs By being a member of the SDG Council, Mr. Hayek form an important part of our strategy and throughout our has the advantage to provide strategic direction to programs, our people and our processes. GCNL in relation to making progress towards the SDGs, capitalizing on private sector leadership, engagement and We hope to continue further pushing the envelope in the involvement. He also helps forge the necessary national domain of sustainability serving as a role model in this and international partnerships and stewardship to keep all industry not only within the Lebanese society but also progress and activities on track in relation to this particular globally. Our Chairman and CEO Mr. Marwan Hayek was SDG. In 2017, Alfa continued its journey toward becoming one of the first Goal leaders to join the newly established a Digital Service provider to better serve its customers and SDG council in 2016 in Lebanon. streamline its operations. The GCNL SDG Council includes CEO level change leaders, Moreover, Alfa continued having a positive spillovers in who are strongly rooted in Lebanese society, and who serve its community and changing destinies through its Alfa as ambassadors, voices and role models for specific SDGs in 4-Life CSR program, partnering with leading NGOs Lebanon helping catalyze important progress and pushing and empowering the most vulnerable segments in our us closer to the 2030 agenda. society, reflecting its commitment to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 16 ESSENCE OF OUR CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY (CSS) Th e 5 p i l l a rs i l l u strated i n the f i gu re below defines our ident it y in a unique way a s b ot h a re t h e co re e leme nts of Al f a ’s Corporate an organizat ion and what we aim to be k n ow n S usta i n a b i l i t y Strategy (CSS ). T he se 5 pillars for in our communit y and in t he eyes of ou r we re d e f i n e d b ased on the m a p p i n g of our stakeholders. stake h o l d e rs a n d the i r n ee ds, cou p l e d wit h an a s s e ssm e nt of t he n ee ds of ou r com mu nit y and By reinforcing it s st at us as t he 1st res p on sib le a re cl o se l y a l i g n ed w i th ou r core va l u e s. Thes e mobile operator in Lebanon, Alfa is s olid if yin g 5 pi l l a rs i n c l u d e : Cu stome r Centri ci ty and it s pos it ion ever y day on t he bus ines s sid e a n d E x pe r i e n ce , Em pl oye e N u rtu ri n g , Economic on t he s ust ainabilit y s ide, t hus nicely illust rat in g S pi l l ove r, G o o d Governa n ce a nd Communit y and putt ing t he not ion of s hared value c reat ion I nve st m e nt . T h e s e 5 p i l l a rs form the core of our in act ion. Co rp o rate S u st ai na b i l i ty Strategy ( CSS ) which 17 FIGURE 2 MAPPING SDGS TO ALFA’S FIVE MAIN PILLARS 1 2 3 ECONOMIC GOOD CUSTOMER SPILLOVER GOVERNANCE CENTRICITY & EXPERIENCE SDG 4 SDG 16 SDG 9 SDG 8 SDG 10 AGILITY INNOVATION 4 5 EMPLOYEE COMMUNITY NURTURING INVESTMENT SDG 3 SDG 3 SDG 4 SDG 4 SDG 5 SDG 7 SDG 8 SDG 8 SDG 10 SDG 10 SDG 11 SDG 13 18 SDG 15 19 OUR 2016-2017 COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL GOALS 20 OUR 2016-2017 COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL GOALS HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016-2017 Being a leader of change in the Lebanese society, Alfa is constantly all its stakeholder needs, customer needs, and of course, all of our investing in the domain of sustainability. Achieving our business Alfa family needs. objectives is the most important priority for us, given that the communications platform and sophisticated telecom solutions Since 2016, Alfa is gradually working on realigning its sustainability are at the core of people’s lives. Yet, we take pride in the fact that projects with the SDGs, by mapping and tracking all projects Alfa’s business focus has been invariably counterbalanced by a around core SDGs and SDG indicators and benchmarks, which strong sense of social commitment and centered around creating form the essence of the UN 2030 agenda for Sustainable positive social value at the level of the community and its people, Development. We are committed to making progress on the rather than guided by a pure profit maximization framework. SDGs, and we have committed to a number of core SDGs as showcased in this report (SDG 3, 4, 5, 8, 10, 11, 13, 17) where we 2014, Alfa joined the UN Global Compact Network platform, the have made significant strides and progress. We believe the efforts world’s largest sustainability initiative on the planet and has been of the private sector in this regard are a good complement to the since March 2014 a founding member of the Global Compact efforts of the public sector, the Council of Ministers and UNDP in Network Lebanon (GCNL) and a key member of its Board of advancing the SDG agenda in Lebanon Directors. Alfa renews yearly its commitment to the principles of social responsibility, green stewardship and good corporate The below summarizes some of the key main milestones in governance. (102-13). relation to the SDGs for the period 2016-2017: Alfa’s initiatives are based on a corporate sustainability vision, a well-integrated CSR strategy, ensuring its commitment to meet 21 FIGURE 3 HIGHLIGHTS OF 2016-2017 HIGHLIGHT SDG 9 • Alfa provides the fastest internet innovations in the world to the Lebanese market • In 2017, Alfa completed its nationwide 4G+ rollout, covering 100% of its subscribers with LTE Advanced sites • Alfa launched customized products for youth students as well as initiatives and programs fostering innovation: Alfa A+, Alfa & Erricsson IoT Award for engineering university students, Girls in ICT day and supported Lebanese talents • Alfa opened a new State-of-the Art Alfa flagship store, the first of its kind in Lebanon and is planning to open 20 other similar stores soon across Lebanon • Alfa launched more than 13 new products and services 22 OUR 2016-2017 COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL GOALS HIGHLIGHTS OF PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS OF PROGRESS TOWARDS SDG3 TOWARDS SDG4 • Alfa encouraged local sports and shed light on local talent by • Alfa launched the “Alfa and Ericsson” IoT Award Competition for being the main sponsor of many marathons, tournaments, university engineering students to encourage entrepreneurship national sports teams and leagues as well as Alfa team members and innovation (SDG9) including those with “Iron Will” • A lfa launched the A+ University Offer which is tailor-made to target • Alfa launched “Let’s bring their Sight Back this Season” initiative university students exclusively as part of “Alfa 4-Life” • A lfa provides a benefit supportive plan to its employees who are • Alfa launched an awareness initiative on mental illnesses seeking university studies and ways of prevention and treatment through movies and refurbished the psychiatric ward of Hotel Dieu de France in partnership with AFMM • As part of its role as a responsible corporate citizen, Alfa launched the “No network underground” Road Safety campaign with Kunhadi and other Road Safety Campaigns with the ISF, LIRSA and the National Road Safety Council • In 2017, due to its commitment to Road Safety, Alfa was awarded the ISO 39001: 2012 for Road Traffic Safety Management as the 1st Telecom Operator in the MENA • Alfa continuously supports the well-being of people with “Iron Will” through Art and Sports therapy as part of Alfa 4-Life CSR initiatives HIGHLIGHTS OF PROGRESS TOWARDS SDG5 • Alfa was the first Lebanese company to organize “Girls in ICT” event every year since 2013 as per ITU directive to teach young ladies about the telecom sector and the opportunities available to them and encourage them to pursue careers in the field • In 2017 our total number increased to reach 1033, comprising of 39%women and 61% men 23 HIGHLIGHTS OF PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS OF PROGRESS TOWARDS SDG8 TOWARDS SDG10 •W ith a stronger need for an agile and innovative telecom • Alfa champions the cause of people with “Iron Will” by sector in the country, Alfa is continuously creating partnering with NGOs to support their inclusion and opportunities for decent employment in the company improve their productivity and financial independence and through the ecosystem while introducing new • Youth Diversity is also important and 40.58% of Alfa technologies employees are below the age of 30 years • Alfa fosters a synergistic work environment that values • Employees with “Iron Will” constitute more than 3% of every employee, promotes respect and teamwork and Alfa’s Total Employee Population exceeding the 3% quota strengthens its position as a Model Employer stipulated by the Law 220/2000 and ratified by Parliament in December 1999 to promote the rights of the disabled 24 OUR 2016-2017 COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL GOALS HIGHLIGHTS OF PROGRESS HIGHLIGHTS OF PROGRESS TOWARDS SDG11 TOWARDS SDG13 • As part of its role as a responsible corporate citizen, • Alfa has a well-established Waste Recycling program in all Alfa Alfa launched the “there is no connection underground” premises (papers, cardboard, plastic and metal) road safety campaign throughout the UN Decade of Action for • Alfa celebrates Earth Hour on a yearly basis Road Safety (2011-2020) as well as several awareness campaigns on road safety with Kunhadi, the ISF and the National Road • Alfa provides Green Tips to colleagues on a monthly basis Safety Council • Alfa’s Green Bill initiative encourages customers to resort to • Alfa family was trained on sound driving rules and was e-bill instead of paper awarded the Road Traffic Safety management certification ISO 39001:2012 after the successful audit completion of Road Safety Policy for all its employees and Car fleet •A lfa sponsored many local festivals to encourage Art and Culture and support local communities HIGHLIGHTS OF PROGRESS TOWARDS SDG17 • Alfa supported many local NGOs through its Alfa 4-Life program • A lfa is a member of the UNGC and the GCNL Board of Directors which is continuously seeking to develop partnerships that create impact in the community • As part of its Alfa 4-LifeCSR program, Alfa organized a Chain of Love panel, which brought together Alfa CEO and Chairman Marwan Hayek and representatives of the seven associations supported by Alfa to celebrate 11 years of cooperation, friendship and success stories. The dialogue also addressed the challenges faced by these associations and the means to strengthen cooperation with Alfa in order to support. The dialogue also addressed the challenges faced by these associations and the means to strengthen cooperation with Alfa in order to support 25 integration and achieve equality AWARDS 2016 • Best Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative – Telecom Review Summit This award was granted to Alfa as a token of recognition of its work in promoting sustainability practices and in leading the way through initiatives toward the Lebanese community namely through “Alfa 4-Life” program in support of children with ”Iron Will”. 2016 • Operator Telecom Leader of the Year – Telecom Review Summit Citizen Billposter Award Alfa’s Chairman and CEO Marwan Hayek, was recognized as “Telecom Leader of the Year-Operator” in 2016 in During the Pikasso D’or awards, Alfa’s road safety campaign recognition of his leadership and contributions to the with Kunhadi won the Citizen Billposter award on February telecom sector’s advancement development in Lebanon 16, 2017. and the MENA region. 26 ISO 39001:2012 specifies requirements for a road traffic safety (RTS) management system to enable an organization that interacts with the road traffic system to reduce death and serious injuries related to road traffic crashes which it can influence. The requirements in ISO 39001:2012 include development and implementation of an appropriate RTS policy, development of RTS objectives and action plans, which take into account legal and other requirements to which the organization subscribes, and information about elements and criteria related to RTS that the organization identifies as those which it can control and those which it can influence. “In line with our sustainability journey, one of the major milestones in 2017 was the ISO 39001:2012 This certification comes to cement our longstanding in Road Safety Traffic Management which we are efforts on raising awareness on best traffic safety practices the first operator from Lebanon and Mena to and shedding light on the hazardous impacts of using acquire as part of our commitment to the 2030 UN mobile phone while driving. We are happy to be playing a Agenda for Sustainable Development and SDG #3: key role in reducing death and serious injuries related to Good Health and Well Being”. road traffic crashes as a responsible corporation which acts in line with its vision. Marwan Hayek 27 ZOOMING ON MATERIALITY: WHAT MATTERS MOST 28 ZOOMING ON MATERIALITY: WHAT MATTERS MOST STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholder engagement is a key part in Alfa’s DEFINING OUR STAKEHOLDERS business operations. By reaching out to the right stakeholders, we build a rich environment, fruitful collaborations and trust among our partners. (102-43)Our stakeholders are defined as persons, groups or organizations who firmly believe in our objective, operation and policies. This year and based on the previous report, Alfa updated its stakeholder assessment process to identify the main stakeholders based on their economic, social and environmental impact from a scale of 1-5. (102-42) We engage our stakeholders in dialogue to reach a high level of transparency, partnership and effective communication enabling us to reach common grounds in relation to the social, economic and environmental issues (102-21). This way Alfa is able to proactively follow its sustainability ALFA’S PRIORITY STAKEHOLDER (102-40) agenda and ensure its responsiveness to the 1 Ministry of Telecom needs of each stakeholder. (102-9) For both years 2016-2017, there was no significant change 2 Customers in the supply chain nor in the organizational 3 Telecom Regulatory Authority structure, size or ownership. (102-10) 4 Competitors 5 Council of Ministers 6 Suppliers 7 Electrical Power Providers (EDL) 8 Unions 9 Banks 10 Internet Service Providers (ISPs) 11 Municipalities 12 NGOs 13 Sports Community 14 Arts & Cultures 15 Start Ups 29 FIGURE 4 PRIORITY INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS 30 ZOOMING ON MATERIALITY: WHAT MATTERS MOST OUR STAKEHOLDERS (102-42) TABLE 1 ALFA STAKEHOLDERS Economic Social Environmental Influence Influence Influence (Scale 1-5) (Scale 1-5) (Scale 1-5) Priority Relationship Future Interest Influence Influence Future Interest Influence Future Interest Influence Influence Total Stakeholders to ALFA IN ALFA Of ALFA On ALFA IN ALFA On ALFA IN ALFA Of ALFA On ALFA Score InvestorMinistry of 5 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 44 GVT/Regulators Telecom (MOT) Orascom Telecom Investor Media & Technology 4 4 5 3 2 4 3 2 4 31 (OTMT) Board Members Internal 5 5 5 4 4 5 4 4 5 41 Management Internal 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 37 Employees Internal 5 5 3 4 5 3 2 4 2 34 Customers(Business, Postpaid and Users 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 5 4 37 Prepaid Private) Competiter Competitors 5 3 4 4 4 36 5 5 4 3 Pressure Union 4 4 4 4 2 5 2 2 2 30 Group Society 4 3 4 28 Municipalities 5 2 3 3 2 4 Local communities Society 3 2 1 4 4 2 4 4 2 25 Commercial 2 3 26 Major Suppliers 5 5 5 1 1 3 1 Partners Commercial 5 2 25 Collection Companies 5 3 1 3 2 2 2 Partner 31 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (102-43-44) TABLE 2 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Stakeholders Frequency of Nature Stakeholder How we respond Engagement Engagement Priority Society Future Generations Daily One 2 One Meetings Customer Experience Business & Employment Local communities Surveys/Questionnaire Privacy & Data opportunities Municipalities Conference protection Respect for enviroment Schools Seminars Digital Acess & inclusion Community Involvement Universities Sponsorships Commitment to Energy Tailored Services NGOs and Social Activists Social Media Channels Efficiency & Reducing Special Promotion and reductions Sports Community Letters/Faxes/Memos Waste & Emissions Arts & Cultures Focus Groups Health & Safety Startups Mobile App Standards Collaborators Auditors Daily One 2 One Meetings Long-term business relationship Lawyers Add a credential to portfolio Commercial Partners Depending on One 2 One Meetings Ethics, Values & Financial Value needs Contracts Governance Sustainable Long-term business relationship Banks Online Training procurement Continuous developement & Collections Companies Site Visits Digital Acess & training Insurers Inclusion Distrubtions/Point of sale Energy Efficiency & Major Suppliers Carbon Emissions Other Suppliers (not major) Culture & Engagement Landlords Roaming Partners Electrical Power Providers 32 ZOOMING ON MATERIALITY: WHAT MATTERS MOST MEANS OF ENGAGEMENT Our stakeholder engagement includes regular and ongoing channels, conferences, newsletters, sports & competitions, commitment in several areas such as employee engagement invitation to cultural events, performance appraisal, industry activities, joint projects & initiatives, customer meetings, peers and others (102-43). investor meetings, surveys, social media FIGURE 5 INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS External stakeholders Internal Stakeholders One-on-one meetings One-on-one meetings Surveys Surveys Conferences Gatherings Seminars Newsletters Social media channels Annual celebrations Letters Games Sports Competitions Faxes Contests Memos Entertaining activities Mobile applications Invitation to cultural events FIGURE 15 Our social media channels is an asset to our organization because it allows us to extend the conversation and “Our work in the field of technology grow our engagement with our people through the is emotionless because we deal with following channels: Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, LinkedIn, YouTube and snapchat. At Alfa, we adapted the inanimate objects. However, our work means of communication to the needs of our 2 million with NGOs is a source of warmth, inner subscribers, allowing them to communicate with company representatives 24/24 through instant chat service via the peace, and a permanent source of joy Alfa website and application, in addition to the 111 Services thanks to its great impact on people with center. special needs, or as we decided to call Alfa also engages with several stakeholders, such as NGOs in them people with “Iron Will” as it gives roundtable discussions to better address the humanitarian them hope for a brighter future” needs and work on more targeted joint ventures. Marwan Hayek 33 PURPOSE OF ENGAGEMENT The reason we engage our stakeholders is to recognize and with our main stakeholders. Thus, we promise to keep process the main components that will lead to the success of studying, assessing and adjusting both our performances our business, and also to identify the main topics needed to and our strategy in order to comply with our evolution. ensure the development of our sustainability strategy. By conducting a periodic study of our stakeholder Following the monitoring and evaluation of the feedback engagement we were able to diagnose and broaden our received from our various stakeholders, Alfa identifies the scope in terms of solving issues, concerns, expectations and sections of sustainability that need to be tackled more in results. We thus forge our stakeholder engagement with order to improve our responsible engagement and sustain the principle of inclusiveness. Our report is thus infused with our title of trustworthy operator. values such as relevance, accuracy, timeliness, comparability, reliability, clarity and completeness. (102-46) Transparency, accountability and communications are the main values to build a strong and continuous relationship STAKEHOLDER INTEREST External stakeholders: Internal stakeholders: Respect of the environment Ethics and behavior Involvement of the community Respect of international norms Business and employment opportunities Fair operating practices Staying in line with technology Non-discrimination Protection of data Training and development opportunities Customization of the offers Career development Innovation and quality products Work-life balance Quality of the network Fostering a learning environment Satisfaction of customers Creation of a recognition and retention program Creation of long-term partnerships with contractors, Benefits and compensation suppliers and distributors Satisfaction of employees Environmental protection and waste disposal Increased market share 34 ZOOMING ON MATERIALITY: WHAT MATTERS MOST COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENT Our collective bargaining agreement expired in December 2017. (102-41) Yet at Alfa, we still abide by its clauses; we MATERIALITY ASPECTS conduct our operations and business relationships in line PER PILLAR with the applicable laws and regulations in Lebanon and our internal code of conduct and endorse the Universal Good governance is at the center of our 5 pillars including Declaration of Human Rights. Good Governance, Employee Nurturing, Economic Spillover, Community investment and Customer, Centricity MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT and Experience. Our materiality assessment is based on 4 steps: At Alfa, our materiality process assesses, identifies, prioritizes and validates the sustainability issues and concerns raised by Identification our stakeholders to come up with practical solutions. The list Prioritization summarizing the material issues defined by our stakeholders Validation was validated by Alfa’s sustainability committee (102-47). Review The committee focused its study on the topics noted with medium and high importance. The Material aspect per pillar is shown in the figure below. The results were extracted from the materiality assessment done to define the content of our report and our CSR strategy. FIGURE 6 ALFA’S MATERIAL ASPECT PER PILLAR 35 SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS (103-3) The topics raised by our internal and external stakeholders include the below: EXTERNAL PRIORITY MATERIAL The issues noted above, are the main material components Continued technological Customer satisfaction and that were included in our CSS. These components are related innovation customer privacy to our 5 pillars: Good Governance, Employee Nurturing, Customer-Centricity, positive Economic Spillovers and Community Investment. Mobilizing great efforts Positive economic at local community ALFA’S MATERIALITY MATRIX performance and development increased indirect Following our engagement with various stakeholders, the economic impacts and matrix below was developed to showcase the areas of spillovers Continued efforts in interest of Alfa as well as the boundaries under each pillar. supporting NGOs and The aim of our materiality is to consolidate the most Supplier assessment on increased environmental important material issues tackled by our organization and impact on society proactivity and stakeholders. These material issues, are combined under our responsibility 5 pillars and help in turn identify the core and boundaries of our sustainablility strategy for 2016-2017 (103-1). Increasing community Increased market health presence 36 ZOOMING ON MATERIALITY: WHAT MATTERS MOST FIGURE 7 ALFA MATERIALITY MATRIX ES 2.4 3.9 1.2 CCE 3.1 5.1 1.3 EN 5.3 3.7 CI 4.6 4.4 5.2 4.5 3.8 GG 3.2 1.4 2.1 3.3 5.4 2.2 4.3 2.3 4.1 3.6 4.2 3.4 1.5 3.5 1.1 4.7 Matrix 3 Employee Nurturing 4 Community Investment 1 Economic Spillover 2 Customer Centricity 3.1 Equal remuneration 4.1 Philanthropy 5 Good Governance and experience 1.1 Anti Competitive 3.2 Health 4.2 Supplier Assessment 5.1 Anti-Corruption on Social Impacts Behavior 2.1 Customer Satisfaction 3.3 Trainings and 5.2 Ethical and education 4.3 Environmental compliance 1.2 Indirect economic 2.2 Supplier Assessment responsibility impacts Labor practices 3.4 Non-discrimination 5.3 Procurement 4.4 Human Rights Practices 1.3 Economic 2.3 Customer Privacy 3.5 Child-Labor Assessment 5.4 Risk Management Performance 3.6 Labor management 4.5 Local community 2.4 Technological relations developement 1.4 Market Presence Innovation 1.5 Start ups 3.7 Employee practices 4.6 Impact Investments 3.8 Diversity and equal 4.7 Public policy Opportunities 3.9 OH&S 37 At Alfa, we integrate modernized digital services, along with strategic organization and efficiency to satisfy our customers with an exceptional commitment to ensure reliable, fast, and safe connectivity. In today's technologically challenging and competitive combine the necessities to build our organization that is setting, companies are breaking mundaneness to provide focused on an engaged and motivated team that is aimed at unique and innovative products. Our team’s ability to providing services and products that meet our customers’ constantly research and work on ways to efficiently connect expectations. communities using advanced and strategic logistics and Over the past few years, we have shown progress regarding regulations. Maintaining the quality of our continuous technology and creativity. In 2011, we introduced the achievements and resourceful mission, depends on the country to 3G, and 3G+, 4G, in 2013, and finally 4G+ in coherence of our business procedures, such as providing a 2016. We have the speediest 4G connections in the region challenging and nurturing environment, and enhancing our and internationally. We completed the implementation networks and our contemporary services. We are constantly of our 4G LT-A network, which covers 100 percent of our upgrading our networks and are aware of the advancements subscribers with more than 1250 LTE-A connected sites, that can further our organization and pave the way for a allowing speeds of 250 Mbps in parallel with 21.2 Mbps more robust mindset, ecosystem and market. The culture we are attaining on 3G+. We nationally publicize the at Alfa strives on teamwork and equitable management, presentation of new technology for everyone’s advantage, where we value our employees and provide them with the particularly the 4G+ where people residing in Akkar, Bekaa, necessary tools to challenge their safe zones and constantly or the South are receiving the same levels of service as seek developments. This report showcases our ability to people who are residing in Beirut “We have moved Lebanon from a very low ranking in terms of speed and connectivity in terms of internet, to an advanced place, which is 29th ranking today worldwide out of 124 countries, and with an average speed of 37 megabytes/sec.” Marwan Hayek CUSTOMER CENTRICITY & EXPERIENCE COMMUNITY GOOD INVESTMENT GOVERNANCE EMPLOYEE ECONOMIC NURTURING SPILLOVER AGILITY/INNOVATION 38 ZOOMING ON MATERIALITY: WHAT MATTERS MOST In this report, we show the incorporation of Agility at the Spillover and Community Investment. Thus, all projects heart of our company, helping nourish and activate all the done under these five pillars are centralized around what values that lead to organizational success, and serving as a our organization is built on, the 10 Principles of the UN driver in relation to the five main pillars: Good Governance, Global Compact and the 17 SDGs. Customer Centricity, Employee Nurturing, Economic Featured Story: Launching of 4G+ Whilst always remaining the This achievement is the fruition of pioneering telecom operator that the hard work that was done with the introduces the latest technologies and Ministry of Telecom and Alfa longtime trends to the Lebanese community, we, partners, Ericsson and Nokia. at Alfa, commit to spread happiness amongst the Lebanese citizens by By end of 2016, we placed 263 sites 4G+ offering them high internet speed and sites, covering 46.5% of the Lebanese high quality voice call. territory. The internet speed on 4G+ reached superior results, whereas the Our milestones in 2016, in relation download speed reached 262 Mbps to our network optimization and and the upload speed reached 50 Mbps. expansion, marked the history of the Mobile Network in our country. We are proud that Alfa was the first operator in signing out the contracts with our partners, deploying and offering the 4.5G LTE Network to our subscribers. 39 EMBRACING GOOD GOVERNANCE 40 EMBRACING GOOD GOVERNANCE PILLAR ONE: GOOD GOVERNANCE Alfa’s main commitment is to operate in accordance with the best interest of its main stakeholders. At Alfa, we believe in the implementation of transparent and ethical policies that maximize optimal shared value for our various stakeholders. Our structures, policies and controls are intended to provide an accountable and ethical foundation to our business. The framework adopted in the context of our state of the art corporate governance system led us to develop a new culture promoting at its heart our commitments based on integrity, transparency and ethics of conduct. (102-17) The Good Governance pillar includes 1. CORPORATE IDENTITY the following sections: Our values mission and vision lie at the core of our corporate identity and showcase our commitment to offer an added 1Corporate Identity value to our stakeholders, community and environment. 2Commitments This commitment is based on our CSS and our core values 3Board of Directors including Customer Centricity and Experience, Employees 4Organizational Structure Nurturing, Economic Spillover and Social Responsibility. 5Alfa’s Policies, Codes and Guidelines These values are now part of our DNA, and are integrated 6Enterprise Risk Management at the heart of our Sustainability Strategy and form an 7Anti-Corruption important part of our identity, translating in turn into added 8Supplier Assessment on Environmental, value in the eyes of our internal and external stakeholders. Social and Governance Issues 2. COMMITMENTS (102-16) Our commitments define Alfa and what we stand for, Socially Responsible Corporate Citizen our code of conduct and our policies are always updated We contribute to our community by including in our day and adapted to ongoing situations. Our organizational to day work the highest standards of ethical conduct and commitments are summarized as follows: integrity. People: Agility We believe our people are at the essence of our organization and we are committed to provide and create opportunities We use our agility to adapt to our customers’ needs and and new capacities. requirements while keeping track of the changes occurring in the markets. Consumers We ensure maximizing the satisfaction of our clients by improving the quality of our management systems. 41 MIC1 Board of Directors (102-18) 3. BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1Mr. Marwan Hayek Chairman and CEO Alfa’s board of director’s role includes supervising and 2Mr. Oussama Nassif monitoring the Company, by offering strategic direction and 3Mr. Hatim El Gammal sound governance. The election of the board members is 4Mr. Maan El Amine handled by the general assembly. The board is elected for the 5Mr. Philip Tohme term of the management agreement extension. The board meets yearly as a General Assembly and can meet up to 4 The main duties of the BOD are supported by the following times in case of pressing issues and topics. (102-28, 31) The main committee and can be found below (102-22, 23, 24) responsibility includes electing the Chairman and exercising the responsibilities defined by the commercial law. In some cases 1. Executive Committee: Responsible for leadership of the responsibilities can be transferred from BOD to the Executive company, the setting of the strategy, achieving the results Committee. The Board of Directors sets Alfa’s strategic and reporting to stakeholders approach and procedures across all organizational aspects 2. Risk Management Committee: In charge of monitoring including sustainability, economic, social and environmental and detecting security risks and implementing risk mitigation issues (102-26,27) (102-24). and prevention measures 3. ERP Committee: Responsible for managing the Enterprise It also seeks the assistance of private consultants to ensure Resource Planning System optimal decision-making and framework design. Moreover, the board is in charge of reviewing all the sustainability reports produced by Alfa before their publication. (102-32) 4. ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE In order to facilitate our communication and ensure optimal operations, Alfa has also developed a sound organizational structure. The Organizational structure aims at ensuring clarity, transparency and accountability and to reporting responsibly. (102-18). The CEO of Alfa Mr. Marwan Hayek chairs this structure with the help of all the chiefs of various key sectors. (102-19) 42 EMBRACING GOOD GOVERNANCE OUR ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE IS ESSENTIAL TO INCORPORATE A CLEAR AND FULLY TRANSPARENT HIERARCHY (102-18) FIGURE 8 ALFA ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Chairman and CEO Chief Chief Chief Vice President Chief Chief quality & Commercial Technology Financial HR Communication Corp.Strategy Officier Officier Officier Legal and Affair Officier Officer Admin Corporate Marketing Engineering Accounting Human Media Strategy & Resources Relations PMO Budgeting Corporate Corporate Content & Rollout and service Legal Affairs Communication Quality Partnership costing & CSR Revenue Reporting & Market Operations Administration Corporate Assurance & Customer Communications Events Fraud Experience Commercial Information Information Procurement Security Security Support Technology Sales Operations Treasury Support Customer Technology Operations Support 43 MANAGEMENT TEAM 5. POLICIES, CODES Our management team and members are hired from the AND GUIDELINES local community and include the members listed below: (202-2) (102-16) Alfa has set up various approaches, codes and rules that TABLE 3 ALFA MANAGEMENT TEAM frame its commitment to the most noteworthy standards in business. Among these arrangements are: • Alfa’s Code of Conduct is the “Secret behind Alfa’s success”, fortifying our qualities, and characterizing features and mandates for our activities, inside and remotely. The Code of Conduct lays out the rules, directions and work force strategies that guide Alfa’s employees with respect to the performance anticipated from them when fulfilling their obligations and while dealing with their partners and members from the larger society. • Alfa’s Code of Ethical Purchasing diminishes potential dangers that are mostly going to occur amid any business connections with external business parties and protects Alfa’s image in relation to its procurement practices and their environmental, social and economic impact. • Alfa’s Online Charter and Social Media Guidelines direct our fellow workers in their online activities, to secure their welfare and best interest while protecting Alfa and their stakeholders. • Alfa’s Risk Management Policy clarifies Alfa’s hidden approach and principles to risk and risk management. It explains the involvement of all staff members including line managers and executive managers. • Information and PHYSICAL Security: Alfa has been keen on spreading awareness on Information and Physical Security, through trainings, policies and guidelines to all Alfa employees, followed by an assessment of their knowledge in both 2016 and 2017 to spread the Safety and Security culture and to help Alfa employees identify and face effectively recognizable hazards that may affect the physical and intellectual property of the company as well as the team. 44 EMBRACING GOOD GOVERNANCE 6. ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT Being in an environment that is constantly changing, it is At Alfa, all employees are favored to report on any risk significant that we keep identifying our risks and managing that might have occurred or was detected within their them before they affect us. During the years 2014-2015 Alfa working environment. Once a risk is identified, it is shared developed a Risk Management Strategy that is based on with the concerned team to assess and treat it. We offer ISO31000 and aimed at identifying all kinds of threats or events periodical assessments on risks, and report them to the top that might disrupt normal operations. In 2016, we decided to management to be able to treat them adequately. move further and adopt a whole new risk management culture (102-11). “Risk Champions” have been selected from various company units in previous years, and we are proud to maintain and Alfa is committed to the introduction and implementation progress on the crisis management plan. The plan is to of a comprehensive risk management framework and ensure that zero incidents occur across the chain that might process, and has an open and receptive approach to solving threaten our organization and stakeholders. Furthermore, risk problems that ensures that risk management is well the plan covers the workflow, approach, communication integrated within the normal business processes and aligned plans and activities that need to be carried out in order to to the strategic goals of the company. mitigate the situation and ensure business continuity. 45 RISK MANAGEMENT CULTURE: Moreover, as per Alfa’s strategy and organization division Alfa’s senior management board is committed to foster an environment of support that encourages the application of the risk management culture throughout the company. In order to implement and maintain an effective and efficient risk management culture at Alfa and ensure the adequacy of any control, accountability is properly being assigned on different levels: 1. Top Management 6. Employees The top management is promoting and supporting the risk Employees have embedded the risk culture in their daily activities, management culture through resorting to risk management through proper risk escalations to their respective line managers findings as decision support system, and the possibility to include when needed. risk management in selected units’ objectives as part of the performance appraisal list of objectives. 2. Risk Management Unit Is accountable for the development, implementation and continuous improvement Endorsing the risk management policy ref of the risk management policy, framework and Environment PL/RBC/002 process. It is also responsible of promoting the risk Assigning risk management accountabilities and management culture. responsibilities at appropriate levels within the Environment organization. 3. Risk Owners Are accountable for properly reporting and following up the implementation of the controls of Ensuring that the necessary resources are allocated the risks they own. to risk management. Ensuring that the framework and policy for Support managing risk remains appropriate. 4. Action Owners Support Are accountable for implementing the recommended activities that the risk owners and risk champions have proposed as treatment. Leading by example in adequately addressing the items raised by risk management. Ensuring alignment of risk management objectives with the objectives and strategies of the organization 5. Risk Champions At ALFA with special emphasis on Business Continuity Planning, Revenue Assurance, Information security, Are accountable of properly representing the risk Internal Audit and Fraud Management management culture in their respective department and/or areas. At ALFA 46 EMBRACING GOOD GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT MATURITY (102-30) Our Enterprise Risk Management Maturity Assessment questionnaire developed and published in January 2013 conducted in July 2014 revealed a maturity index of 4/5, by MPRA (Munich Personal RePec Archive), which runs which is better than 84% of companies worldwide. This under The Munich University Library, part of the University index places Alfa in the “Integrated/Semi-Mature” category. of Munich. Repec (Research Papers in Economics) is a Two years later, in February 2016, the second maturity collaborative effort of hundreds of volunteers in 81 countries assessment took place. The maturity assessment was based to enhance the dissemination of research in economics and on the AON maturity index, and on a self-assessment related sciences. FIGURE 9 RISK MANAGEMENT MATURITY Risk Evolution 250 Introduction of Continuous Improvement framework 200 150 100 50 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec New <30% treatment <30-70% treatment >70% treatment Improvements Closed 47 AREAS COVERED Business Units Processes Within our approach to risk management, we have tackled Alfa studied the corporate processes, and the process risks the Business Units (organizational structure and staff), that were of enterprise scale, later on; these were linked to through interviews and brainstorming sessions to identify the corresponding risks in the corporate risk register. operational risks. Buildings/Operational Health Information Assets and Safety Starting from a key conception of information as asset, Alfa We tackled three buildings where we operate mainly Parallel, worked on identifying and classifying the data available Palm, and Pine buildings for operational health and safety under the governance of the data classification project. risk management, in addition to generic health and safety concerns. Hardware and Software Services Concerning the hardware and software as assets, or As for services, these are considered as another type of assets. technical/tangible assets, Alfa compiled the list of assets. We According to OGC (office of Government Commerce UK), came out with three types of assets mainly: Warehouses, risk management covers the following processes in ITIL: data centers, and hub sites. • Incident/Problem management – Tackled Those 3 types of assets were studied in details for risk • Change management Tackled management. • Service delivery – Not mature • Availability management – Not mature • IT service continuity tackled through crisis management 48 Externally FINANCE: FRAUD To abstain from corruption, deliver top-notch value and balance MANAGEMENT between quality and price for business longevity, our procurement department follows a rigorous “Request for Proposal” procedure As part of our anti-fraud combat coping with new technologies for suppliers. and new services/products launched in 2017, we started the process of implementing a fraud management and revenue assurance system that will help us expand our fraud controls Internally covering a large data set, phase 1 live in 2018 and phase 2 to be At Alfa, we train all our employees and offer continuous support finalized beginning of 2019. to eliminate all sorts of bribery and corruption. These trainings enable us to raise awareness on any issue related to corruption Moreover, at Alfa we proceed with internal controlling based on and ethics. Line managers and the Human Resources department random sampling given the fact that the automated system is are in charge of these issues. currently under implementation. We have also in place a policy within our Code of Conduct These controls are conducted on prepaid, postpaid and roaming that focuses on special gifts and gratitude. Any employee who services on a random basis. In 2016 and 2017, we executed around receives a gift exceeding a set amount has to declare it to the HR 40 controls every month and the number increased based on department. Employees are also asked to report any behavior how many products we launch. that raises concern or any suspicious practices that are not in line with our principles, regulations policies and ethics. Moreover, our If a problem is detected, the actions taken are as follows: employees are also asked to report on any serious topics they might encounter related to the overall operations of Alfa (205-1). • The case is reported to the concerned management level Below are a few examples: • The revenue loss is quantified • Regulations and policies breach • The problem is mitigated and losses are recovered, whenever possible • Confidential information disclosure • The solutions are implemented and losses avoided • Irresponsible actions that may endanger the health and safety of the employee • The case is summarized and results are logged internally (205-3) • Thefts or miss-use of the company’s assets or property 7. ANTI-CORRUPTION • Conflict of interest related to a third party (205-2) • Fraud and corruption / miss-use of the fund and or petty cash Alfa is a proud member of the UN Global Compact Network • All types of harassment: physical, moral or sexual Lebanon (GCNL); and supports all of its principles as well as the 17 SDGs. The 10 principles are divided into 4 areas mainly: • Unethical behaviors related to our core values: integrity, respect, Labor, Human Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Alfa honesty, responsibility, accountability and fairness. applies a zero tolerance policy to fight all forms of corruption both internally and externally. Bribery and extortion are strictly forbidden and not tolerated within the company. 49 50 EMBRACING GOOD GOVERNANCE 8. SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE ISSUES (102-20) A part of our success comes from our suppliers; we Our code of ethical purchasing dictates our commitment are dedicated to our up-and-coming supplier selection to our responsible suppliers. The purpose of such a code processes and management, and to the business we includes: conduct with socially and environmentally responsible companies who share our values. To work collectively • All permanent or temporary suppliers, providers, towards achieving our commitment to sustainability goals, contractors, vendors, consultants Alfa provides any supplier with a “Supplier Environmental, • Advisors and / or any external third party providing any Social, and Governance (ESG) Compliance Form”. This good or service to Alfa can follow the acceptance criteria form clarifies their performance in the areas of ethics, labor rights, health and safety, environment, governance and As a prerequisite for potential business partnership, we management issues. follow these criteria. Any potential business partner who fails to meet the acceptance requirements will not be considered. (102-10) PURPOSE OF OUR CODES OF ETHICAL PURCHASING (102-25) • To mitigate potential risks which are likely to occur • To operate in accordance with Alfa’s Identity statements during our business relationships with potential business and the international standards on quality partners • To behave in accordance with Alfa sustainability tactics • To Gain competitive advantage by having effective in relation to its environmental, social and economic supplier management framework and engagements strategic directions charter • Protect Alfa’s corporate image from any violation which • Help Business Partners take into consideration might reflect poorly on our brand sustainability in the social, environmental and economic aspects of their business Figure 5 51 CODES OF ETHICAL PURCHASING HUMAN RIGHTS CONFLICT OF INTEREST CHILD LABOUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HEALTH AND SAFETY COMPENSATION AND WORKING HOURS THE ENVIRONMENT LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE ETHICS DISCRIMINATION AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Figure 6 52 SERVING CUSTOMERS: CUSTOMERS AS OUR LIFEBLOOD 53 SERVING CUSTOMERS: CUSTOMERS AS OUR LIFEBLOOD PILLAR TWO: CUSTOMER CENTRICITY AND EXPERIENCE Alfa’s sustainability comes from its need to constantly improve The Customer Centricity pillar includes the customer loyalty and experience. Providing excellent customer following sections: service, and being up to date to modern trends in technology is crucial for customer satisfaction. The economic and social 1. Superior customer service longevity of our organization is dependent on our costumers’ 2. Customer experience management (CEM) loyalty. Our top priority and efforts are dedicated to ensuring 3. Voice of customer program and customer satisfaction top-notch customer satisfaction in the industry. 4. Interactions 5. Technological innovation Our subscribers’ base has increased by 4% since 2015 to 6. Alfa Innovation Store exceed 2 million subscribers by end of 2017. The number 7. Services of data subscribers has expanded from almost 1.3 million in 8. International sharing and roaming agreements 2015 to more than 1.5 million by end of 2017. The smartphone 9. National network coverage penetration rate reached more than 90%, and data traffic 10. Customer privacy and data security reached unprecedented rates of 2000TB per month. Our drop call rate of 0.5% is lower than the worldwide average drop call rate of 1%. Drop call rate presents the percentage of telephone calls that were cut off due to technical reasons before either of the speaking parties had finished their conversation and hung up. 1. SUPERIOR CUSTOMER SERVICE 2. CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE • To lead a more customer centric organization, our priorities MANAGEMENT (CEM) are focused on our customers’ satisfaction. We constantly work on enhancing our customers’ experience with our We are constantly probing for new ways to provide our service. Our customer service representatives in our 24/7 customers with a comfortable experience, and to stay customer service call center (111), take customers’ call to efficiently connected to them. The Customer Experience answer any questions or solve problems around the clock. Management (CEM) Process we set in 2014 allows us to monitor our customers’ satisfaction and to continuously • The secure Online Payment method is one of the services steer Alfa in the direction of a more customer-centered we provide, where payments for a variety of charges may approach. be made by debit or credit card issued by Lebanese banks. This strategy allows us to have a coordinated approach Through this method, postpaid costumers can settle to setting the company’s strategic goals, focusing on their monthly bills and prepaid customers can recharge costumers’ needs, and gauging their satisfaction levels at their subscriptions online. Our services are accessible and different transaction periods through several channels. convenient to all customers through these facilities. 54 3. VOICE OF CUSTOMER PROGRAM AND CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Through the Voice of Customer program, we can gather We are among the most prevalent telecommunications our customers’ responses across the entire customer companies on social media in the region. Alfa’s Social Media journey by completing several surveys that are finalized Channels launched the 24/7 Customer Care support in via distinctive channels, based on the customers’ needs. February 2014 to assist Alfa’s subscribers in communicating Our customer experience management includes with Alfa’s support team online. Alfa’s Growth on social directing surveys with our customers in order to media doesn’t come from paid promotions for the page/ satisfy their needs and interests. We use social media interaction to measure our customer contentment account, thus the content we produce creates engagement (416-1). and benefits from the snowball effect it creates. 55 SERVING CUSTOMERS: CUSTOMERS AS OUR LIFEBLOOD ENGAGEMENT THROUGH SURVEYS: Several surveys were conducted by Alfa in 2017 using the actions are triggered following survey analysis to enhance following means: the customer experience and meet customers’ expectations. Conducted surveys in 2017 covered Alfa contact points (14 surveys), Products and services (11 surveys), Basic services (7 #* 1. USSD surveys), Perception (5 surveys) and general (2 surveys). 2. MOBILE Mobile applications, website and USSD surveys have been continuously implemented on the related channels for APPLICATION our customer feedback. Several enhancements have been applied on existing questionnaires to receive more insights 3. WEBSITE from our customers. Onboarding questionnaire is also continuously improved to collect more information about new joiners for better customer experience. 4. EMAIL Based on the above, more than 40 recommendations have been suggested during 2017 to enhance the customer experience. Some of them have been implemented and 5. SMS some are still under feasibility/assessment. Below are few examples: 6. ALFA STORES 1. Ensure availability of Alfa stores on Google maps to make it easier for customers to find the store 7. PHONE CALLS 2. Awareness about all features and services offered by Alfa channels FIGURE 7 3. Awareness about how to reduce the data usage to avoid The percentage of answers increased with time (2.96% extra MB and therefore unsatisfied customers in 2014 till 6.03% in 2017) and this might be due to the availability of continuous surveys in addition to the feedback 4. Awareness campaigns about applications or tools that loop system. help customers to monitor/check their consumption Customer Experience team analyzes all open ended questions available in the filled surveys and raises related 5. Update complaining customers by SMS when unreachable complaints and requests to concerned entities within (Contacted several times without success) maximum 7 days. To close the loop, customers are contacted by concerned teams to get more information and address 6. Creation of a Post-Churn Survey sent automatically by issues/requests directly. E-mail following a line cancellation. Survey result is analyzed and necessary actions are taken In 2016, the time required to close the loop was 40 days, and this time was reduced to 18 days in 7. Reshuffle existing bill statement to make it clearer 2017. Moreover, several recommendations, initiatives and 8. Update the FAQ section on the website with additional useful tips related specially to data since exceeding data bundle is one of the major complaints 56 9• Minimize the number of calls effected to our customers during the complaint handling process “Seeing the world through the eyes of our customers” was one of the main projects in 2017; 10• Create a single point of contact for complex complaint it is an interactive Customer Journey Mapping cases exercise (cross-functional group of employees) that was completed in 2017 to describe the main stages Main Customer Experience Metrics (Overall satisfaction postpaid customers go through when interacting and Net Promoters Score) are continuously calculated, monitored and analyzed; several initiatives have been with Alfa, and to identify all aspects of the customer suggested for improvement especially in term of Customer experience across the different stages. Several effort (Customer effort Score). initiatives were suggested following this project varying in size, complexity and impact in order to make a difference in the customer Journey map of Alfa postpaid customers. 57 SERVING CUSTOMERS: CUSTOMERS AS OUR LIFEBLOOD 4. INTERACTIONS In addition, mystery shopping and benchmark activities Our customer experience management involves conducting are our daily tasks used to experience and measure our surveys with our customers in order to understand their customers’ processes. Based on their findings, we validate our behaviour, needs and satisfaction levels. We also measure assumptions, clearly identify specific areas of opportunity our customer satisfaction based on social media interaction. and prioritize improvements. Moreover, it results in valuable As the graph below shows, we are among the most popular data that encourages discussion and sparks new ideas and telecommunications companies on social media in the practices. region. 24/7 Customer Care support on Alfa’s Social Media Channels was launched in February 2014 to help Alfa’s During 2017, an external consultant appreciated the subscribers communicate with Alfa support team online Customer Experience Management Framework set, and round the clock. senior leader involvement, in addition to awareness sessions conducted for all employees and continuous Our different digital channels include: Facebook, Twitter, communications to enhance the Customer Centric Culture Instagram, LinkedIn and YouTube. Our increased online (Induction, CX Day, Intranet Message, CEMO weekly presence is demonstrated by: message, etc.) Employee’s satisfaction and engagement as Customers are also monitored several times during the year by CEM team. Related recommendations are also suggested and followed up. FIGURE 10 NUMBER OF INTERACTIONS FIGURE 11 NUMBER OF INTERACTIONS PER PER 1000 FANS IN 2016 1000 FANS IN 2017 INTERNATIONAL COMPARISON INTERNATIONAL COMPARISON 58 FIGURE 12 NUMBER OF INTERACTIONS FIGURE 13 NUMBER OF INTERACTIONS PER PER 1000 FANS IN 2016 1000 FANS IN 2017 REGIONAL COMPARISON REGIONAL COMPARISON FIGURE 9 5. TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION Technological innovation is crucial at Alfa as we are constantly “With an unprecedented surge in data traffic over the determined to grow and provide our customers with alfa network reaching to 15,000 terabytes per year, the comfort and convenience. Furthermore, we are constantly deployment of 4G LTE-A will not only advance the quality upgrading to meet new demand trends and unconventional of our 4G network but will also help us quickly move toward competition. Because of its innovative digital application on next-generation technologies like 5G” its social media channels, Alfa was the first operator to let subscribers experience a virtual 4G speed through a unique digital application on its social media channels. Marwan Hayek 59 6. SERVICES (102-7) Over the course of 20162017, Alfa launched 14 new products and services that were added to the pool of existing ones FIGURE 14 CUSTOMIZED SERVICES AND RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS Customized Services and Responsible Products MI/Broadband Price VIP Postpaid Bundle Renewable MBs Postpaid Alfa Booster Reduction iPhone 7 Alfa 5x5 iPhone SE Automatic Bill Payment Valentine’s Promo Alfa Top-up Offer Service Box $10 Alfa Mobile Broadband Renewable MBs $1 Offer from Alfa Alfa Free Wifi Allo Taxi 60 6. SERVICES (102-7) Valentine’s Promo New Prepaid Line $3 Weekly Data Bundle The Weekender MOODAK from Alfa Alfa A+ Alfa Smart Home New Alfa Recharge Denomination: 365 Days 4G+ Campaign Mobile Broadband Offer iPhone 8 iPhone X Alfa Gift 61 SERVING CUSTOMERS: CUSTOMERS AS OUR LIFEBLOOD Power Group, Telia, Teleserve Plus, IPIN and OMTs. The 7. ALFA STORE INNOVATION network overall consists of more than 2000 shops. The main distributors are: E-charge, Expertel Group, Liban Post, Nexus, As Tech, and Sbeity Group (102-7). Alfa’s network covers the entire Lebanese territory with more than 48% of the Lebanese market. Alfa stores are Based on the regular assessment of the population’s available all over Lebanon mainly in Beirut, Dekweneh, distribution and our market’s needs, we are constantly Jounieh, Thoum, Tripoli (Maarad and Mina), Halba, Saida, expanding. As detailed in the table below by end of 2017, Nabatieh and Chtaura. Alfa also operates with franchises 10 Alfa Stores covered the entire Lebanese territory as per offering the same products and services available for all their the below. Moreover, Alfa opened in 2016, 8 additional PoPs customers in several different stores: stores. TABLE 4 ALFA STORE INNOVATION Alfa Stores: Furn El Chebbak Tripoli Chtaura Saida Jounieh Halba Nabatieh Mina Thoum Parallel Towers Despite the saturation in the telecommunications industry worldwide, Alfa was able to increase its customer base by 2% in 2017. 62 FEATURED STORY: ALFA OPENS ITS FLAGSHIP STORE Alfa launched its Alfa Flagship Store, the first of “We have harnessed all our its kind in Lebanon, at its energy, and the result is headquarters in Parallel Towers Dekwaneh. The exceptional: a store with the opening of the Store is part latest technology offering a of Alfa’s strategy to provide modern experience to customers the highest level of service that will cater to the needs of speed and quality and the two thousand Alfa subscribers latest mobile and electronic each month. devices, in addition to offering customers on the spot consultation and services, Marwan Hayek same as in other modern stores in the world. 63 SERVING CUSTOMERS: CUSTOMERS AS OUR LIFEBLOOD 8• ADDRESSING CUSTOMER NEEDS Alfa is constantly sensing the needs of its subscribers who are mainly seeking more Internet speed, reliability, and bandwidth with reduced prices. In 2017, Alfa generously responded to the needs of its subscribers. TABLE 5 TOTAL DATA CONSUMPTION AT ALFA NETWORK By end of 2017, data consumption increased by 175% in Alfa network since 2015 64 TABLE 6 SMARTPHONE AND LTE HANDSETS PENETRATION The efforts invested by Alfa to maintain its state-of-the-art network and leading position in the region, increased the appetite of its subscribers for a high speed, low latency and high throughput wireless broadband connection Smartphones adoption within Alfa network surpassed 90%, representing 9.2% increase since 2015; while LTE enabled handsets exceeded 49% in 2017. 65 SERVING CUSTOMERS: CUSTOMERS AS OUR LIFEBLOOD TABLE 7 DCR DROP CALL RATE In 2017, Alfa completed its nationwide 4G+ rollout, covering 100% of its subscribers with 1155 LTE Advanced sites. Below is the DCR Drop Call Rate part ( 2G, 3G CS combined). 2016 2017 0.70 % 0.60 % 0.50 % 0.40 % 0.30 % 0.20 % 0.10 % 0.00 % Weekdays Weekends Total 66 9. INTERNATIONAL SHARING AND ROAMING AGREEMENTS Alfa’s unique wireless service benefits those who travel, in 179 countries and 450 operators. We also provided our specifically those who work all around the world since we prepaid customers voice roaming services in 104 countries. have postpaid and prepaid roaming services for customers Our data roaming service also spanned in 165 countries. in many continents. In particular by end of 2017, we provided our postpaid customers voice roaming services 10. NATIONAL NETWORK COVERAGE By end of 2017, 100% of the Lebanese population was to cater for the large demand on Mobile Broadband (MBB) covered by Alfa network. We had more than 1300 2G data and therefore we worked on increasing our coverage sites on the network (a 200% increase since 2009), more to reach all Lebanese Territory. The figure below shows our than 1300 3G+ sites, and 1250 4G LTE sites till end of 2017, 2G, 3G and 4G LTE coverage in Lebanon. effectively covering 100% of the population. Our goal was 67 SERVING CUSTOMERS: CUSTOMERS AS OUR LIFEBLOOD FIGURE 15 ALFA LTE & LTE-A COVERAGE IN 2014 & 2015 FIGURE 16 ALFA LTE & LTE-A COVERAGE IN 2016 & 2017 68 11. CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND DATA SECURITY As a telecommunications company, we hold costumers’ private Our privacy controls are not restricted by the boundaries of and valuable assets, specifically data, confidentially. We are our organization. Our supply chain equally safeguards the constantly striving to enhance assurance in our capability to customers’ information. A number of policies and measures safe-keep the immense quantity of customer and digital data, accomplish this by involving our different stakeholders, and ensure customers’ discretion. Our policy on information to form an inclusive privacy culture. Thus, data is a security shows the parameters for dealing with unauthorized crucial organizational asset at Alfa, where diverse types of accesses. This policy applies to all Alfa information, regardless information entail different security procedures depending of the location of the data or what type of device the data on their sensitivity. Hence, two policies have been taken on is on. This policy is applied in all departments to handle the since 2012, to keep on supporting the data security services data. Also, all our employees sign a non-disclosure agreement that we offer to our customers. so they don’t share the company and customers’ confidential information either during or after their employment. 1. Information Security: Personal Computer Policy In addition, adhering to our social responsibility as a Re-launched in 2011, the objective of such policy is corporation, several awareness campaigns were initiated during 2016 and 2017 through SMS, social media, and • Alfa’s data Adequately protected in Press to caution subscribers of spam messages and • Personal liability of staff minimized in the event of Data loss safeguard their mobile phones. • Support responsibilities clarified for personally-owned equipment We constantly update our privacy guidelines to show the changes in technology and industry standards. We prioritize upholding the discretion of our customers’ personal 2. Information Security: Data Classification Policy information, as new products and services are developed. As we hold our customers loyalty high, we understand Introduced in 2014, the aim behind this policy is to rule out that being open about how we manage our information is the guidelines for dealing with and upholding information crucial. from unauthorized admission or disclosure. Also, the objective is to provide information owners with direction In this aspect, we are transparent regarding the information on how to correctly order and use information assets. we gather and how we process and use it. 69 CREATING ECONOMIC SPILLOVER: CONTRIBUTING TO THE LEBANESE ECONOMY IS KEY 70 CREATING ECONOMIC SPILLOVER: CONTRIBUTING TO THE LEBANESE ECONOMY IS KEY ECONOMIC SPILLOVERS Alfa plays a crucial part in linking Lebanese people with From its central business, Alfa occupies a central role each other and with the essential information they need in the local economy by rejuvenating the technology to improve their lives and follow their goals. Thus, this interface across Lebanon and offering connectivity among pillar illustrates Alfa’s crucial role in assisting the Lebanese a worldwide sea of transformation in terms of fast economy through a variety of targeted initiatives that are technological modernization. made to inspire and assist in economic and social renewal. The telecom aspect in which we work offers assistance to By the end of December 2015, Alfa showed a rise in other sectors and industries by enabling their development market penetration from 14.4% in 2008 to 48% in 2017. and backing up their procedures. In 2017, Alfa Customers were made of 45% of the total Lebanese population as per the IMF, thereby attaining a This part highlights Alfa’s financial presentation that total development of 240% since 2009, when OTMT was fruitfully affects the Lebanese economy through Alfa’s profit selected. Given our key and leading role in the context of production, functioning revenues generation, influence to the Lebanese economy overall, our constructive economic GDP, tax payment to the government (income tax, VAT), spillover pillar is crucial to our sustainability strategy, and contribution of job employment opportunities, payment balances the other pillars we have set in place. Some of the of employee salaries and bonuses, rise in market share along key parts of this pillar comprise of the following: the years, growth in the number of subscribers, rise in total number of products/services. The Economic Spillover pillar includes the following sections: This part also includes Alfa’s community investments and 1Economic development and cash donations, which equal to more than $4 Million in 2016 financial performance and more than $4 Million in 2017; it also has a constructive 2Entrepreneurship effect on other parts that are affected by telecom. (203-2) 3Value chain 4Contribution to GDP Our promise to achievements in corporate governance, honesty and responsibility, makes us put significance towards our financial implementation on the long run, as a way to guard the benefits of our shareholders and to 1-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT improve the economic growth in Lebanon. The statistics AND PERFORMANCE and facts below display the crucial development we made in terms of financial and market presentation. As a large corporation in Lebanon, our presentation affects local economies, society and the success of our communities. Assisting to a vigorous marketplace and local economy helps Alfa’s long-term accomplishments. 71 Statistics and Facts about Alfa's Performance • Over 3700 2G/3G+/4G LTE SITES ON AIR • 1250 4G+ sites on the network, 1050% increase since 2015 • Alfa subscribers increased by 4% since 2015 to exceed 2 • Alfa network covers 100% of the Lebanese population million subscribers by end of 2017 • Around 1000 LTE-A sites were deployed between 2016 • Alfa changed and upgraded its entire LTE infrastructure in and 2017 close coordination with the Ministry of Telecommunications • Smart Phone Penetration rate reaches 90% in Lebanon, 1250 LTE-A sites were rolled out to assure • Data Traffic reaches unprecedented rates of 2000TB per nationwide 4G+ coverage for 100% of the Lebanese month, 175% increase comparing to 2015 population • Drop call rate drops to 0.5% while 1% is the average • Alfa Data subscribers grew by 12% from 2015 to reach worldwide figure around 1.5 million data subscribers by end of 2017 FIGURE 17 FACTS AND FIGURES ABOUT ALFA’S PERFORMANCE 1250 LTE-A sites Alfa subscribers Data Traffic reached Smart Phone were rolled out to increased to reach 2 unprecedented rates penetration assure nationwide million subscibers of 2000TB per month reached 90% 4G+ coverage for 100% of the Alfa market shares Alfa data subscibers Over 370 2G/3G/4G 1250 4G+ sites on the now reached 48% grew from 1.3 million LTE sites are on air network, 1050% in 2015 to more than increase since2015 100% of Lebanon Around 1000 LTE-A Over 370 2G/3G/4G is covered by Alfa’s sites were deployed LTE sites are on air network between 2016 and 2017 2SUPPORTING ENTREPRENEURSHIP At Alfa, we focus on fostering innovation and introducing The aim of this app was to let app developers from Lebanon an environment of creativity in Lebanon in order to drive upload for free their applications and showcase their the economic activity of our digitalized world. A few years creativity to all the Alfa mobile subscribers in Lebanon. ago Alfa launched its newly created application the “Alfa App Store”. 72 CREATING ECONOMIC SPILLOVER: CONTRIBUTING TO THE LEBANESE ECONOMY IS KEY ALFA UNDERSTANDS THE MAIN POINTS OF STARTUPS IN THE LEBANESE MARKET, AND PAVES THE WAY FOR POTENTIAL AND INNOVATIVE IDEAS: FIGURE 18 ALFA’S SUPPORT TO STARTUPS 73 3VALUE CHAIN Alfa’s value chain comprises key players that work together and partner to sustain the value creation in the Lebanese economy. (203-2) Network equipment Content providers: Service partners: suppliers: provide Alfa provide content for Alfa’s are Alfa’s partners in with equipment and users through Alfa’s creating new products technology network and services Data service Distributors: are Alfa’s Service partners: providers: ISPs that provide sales partners who are are Alfa’s partners in internet access to Alfa responsible for selling creating new products Alfa’s subscription and services At Alfa, we aim to work with suppliers who take into of practices. As mentioned in part I, our ethics and codes consideration social responsibility and who adopt policies of conduct are truly important to the wellbeing of our concerning the environment, human rights, and labor codes company and all our suppliers should accommodate and abide by its prerequisites. (308-1) FIGURE 19 ALFA’S VALUE CHAIN NETWORK EQUIPMENT SUPPLIER INFRASTRUCTURE & ORGANIZATION RADIO EQUIPMENT MOBILE SERVICES NETWORK EQUIPMENT VOICE SERVICES CONTENT BILLING SUBSCRIBERS PROVIDERS EQUIPMENT DATA SERVICES SERVICE PROCESS & PARTNERS ORGANIZATION SMS SERVICES DATA SERVICE BUSINESS PROVIDERS INTELLEGENCE VAS SERVICES HUMAN CAPITAL SALES CHANNEL DISTRIBUTORS Moreover, our value chain creates many employment opportunities and contributes to the general national growth. 74 FIGURE 20 PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON SUPPLIERS (102-10) 2017 Non tech: 98% of total amount for local suppliers (204-1) 2% of local amount for international suppliers 96% of total purchase order for local suppliers (204-1) 4% of total purchase order for international suppliers Tech: 49% of total amount for local suppliers (204-1) 51% of total amount for international suppliers 92% of total purchase order for local suppliers (204-1) 8% of total purchase order for international suppliers 4ALFA’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE GDP (201-1) As per the World Bank, the GDP of Lebanon at the local currency was estimated at 75 trillion LBP in 2016 As per the Ministry of Finance, telecom contribution to the Lebanese treasury was 1.9 trillion LBP in 2016 As per the above, we can safely estimate that Alfa contributed directly to 1.5% of the Lebanese GDP of the total GDP amounting to more than 700 Million USD/ year. The indirect contribution was higher due to the economic opportunities that a mobile operator creates in a country. In 20162017, total Telecom revenues in Lebanon constitute 12% of government revenues. (203-2). 75 NURTURING EMPLOYEES: WE START FROM WITHIN 76 NURTURING EMPLOYEES: WE START FROM WITHIN PILLAR FOUR: EMPLOYEE NURTURING The main element of success of Alfa comes from its engaged, 1-Training and development empowered and committed workforce. In this pillar, Alfa 2-Diversity and equal opportunities will demonstrate its commitment to being an employer of 3-Benefits for all employees choice, and will showcase the many initiatives undertaken 4-Compensations and benefits to support and nurture the development of its talented 5-Promotions individuals. Being an employer of choice brings us pride. We 6-Employee health, safety and wellbeing always strive to embody best practices through: training and 7-Performance management program and career development development, diversity and equal opportunities and career 8-Talent management development. 9-Disciplinary and grievance mechanisms 10-Human right The Employee nurturing pillar four includes the following sections: 1-TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT At Alfa, we firmly believe that investing in our employees The diverse trainings offered covered several topics such as by training them and developing their skills will ensure hard skills, job related skills, information and technology, soft advancement and progress in their roles in the fast-paced skills, telecom, and behavioral trainings. technological industry we belong to. The framework of our training and development encompasses competencies such as: technical, management and leadership, anti-corruption, Human rights etc. More than 24600 of hours of trainings occurred in 2016 and more than 20740 in 2017. TABLE 8 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 77 SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT AND AWARENESS TRAININGS a. Safety and security trainings (102-8): c. Creation of Alfa’s Internal Pool of QMS We provide our teams with practical advice and direction to Auditors assure that their activities on sites align with internationally With the aim of sustaining Alfa’s culture of quality and confirmed standards, including the application of continuous improvement, a pool of Quality Management appropriate safety equipment to take on large operations System Auditors has been created, encompassing relating to appropriate suits and fabrics as instructed members from all departments who are responsible of auditing specific processes/activities within Alfa, including Some of the initiatives we have implemented include: Road Safety practices, subsequently to Alfa's achievement of ISO 39001 Certification for Road Safety. • Information and Physical Security: Awareness sessions for all Alfa employees (yearly program). Traffic Management. Accordingly, selected members attended a QMS Audit Training Program and were subject • Road Safety awareness sessions for all Alfa employees; to assessment to become Alfa's future internal QMS moreover, targeted trainings Auditors (29 members). were organized for specific groups for capability development and/or knowledge Enhancement (2016 and 2017). b. International Programs for Colleagues’ Individual Development Some examples for 2016-2017: Programs by Franklin Cove (Soft Skills & Personal Development), Ken Blanchard (e.g. Stretch Dimension Sales Management ), Arbinger Institute (e.g. “The Choice”), among others. 78 NURTURING EMPLOYEES: WE START FROM WITHIN TABLE 9 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT CATEGORIES (404-2) General Category Category Description Hard Skills (Specific technical and Business Cominunication job-related skills) Corporate Social Responsibility Finance Human Resources Security Safety Information Technology Data treatment IT programming IT Networking IT Overview IT Service Management Soft Skills Crealivity, communication and interpersonal skills customer service excellence and complaints. Handling management and leadership problem solving and decision making Telecom Overseas conferences for training and exchange of expertise Telecom products and equipment related trainings (installation, configuration, operation, maintenance and troubleshooting of hardware, soft wear and network, system upgrades, latest technology, billing systems) Specific behavioral trainings for Communication and interpersonal skills customer service team Customer service excellence Telephone skills 79 2017 Women 13 30 96 2017 Men 23 N/A 132 TABLE 10 OVERALL LEARNING EFFICIENCY Learning opportunities are successfully implemented in line with internal Learning & Development Policy, and efficiency is regularly monitored and measured through specific tools and KPIs. Overall Learning Efficiency ( 404-1) 2016 2017 Training Satisfaction 82 % 84 % Rate Training Efficiency Rate 78 % 78 % 2DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Equality, diversity and inclusion are the three main values 5Equal employment opportunities that reflect the supportive environment and the success 6Accessibility to facilities and services ensured by Alfa. Indeed, at Alfa we even exceeded the 3% quota of the law 220/2000 promoting the rights of disabled that was Our main mission is based on including and incorporating ratified in December 1999 by the parliament. Since 2009 employees from different genders, religions, and age groups. we initiated a partnership with LPHU the Lebanese physical By the end of the 2016 we had 995 employees, comprising handicap union. of 60% male and 40% female. In 2017 the total number of employees increased to reach 1033, comprising of 39% Our involvement in such a program only results in positive Women and 61% Men. Youth Diversity is also important benefits mainly: and 40.58% of Alfa employees are below the age of 30 years. Benefit from more diversity Compliance with law 220/2000 We are proud that Alfa is an employer of choice for “People Develop the corporate social with Iron Will” (The designation adopted by Alfa for responsibility people with special needs/disabilites). as we try to address Raise awareness among colleagues especially for the the challenges faced by our community and improvise rights of people with disabilities appropriate solutions. We are eager to employ “People with Iron Will” as we actively seek to integrate them into the We continuously strive to equip our premises in order to workforce. address the needs of all our challenged colleagues and ease their integration within our working environment. (102-8) Our employees with “Iron Will” benefit from an array of opportunities, including: The tables shown below represent the % of employees by type of contracts, gender, age, from 2014 till 2017. (102-8) 1Equal benefits 2Workplace wellbeing Alfa is continuously striving to reduce gender discrimination 3Equal training opportunities within the company. Almost 39% of employees are women; 4Equal remuneration opportunities 15 % of the board and 31.5 % of the management. 80 NURTURING EMPLOYEES: WE START FROM WITHIN TABLE 11 TOTAL NUMBER OF ALFA EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND GENDER IN 2016 & 2017 (102-8) 2016 Permanent Contractual Consultant Total Female 357 40 1 398 Male 528 67 2 597 Total 885 107 3 995 2017 Permanent Contractual Consultant Total Female 359 51 1 411 Male 537 83 2 622 Total 896 134 3 1033 The employee average age was 33 years old in 2016 and 34 years old in 2017. TABLE 12 TOTAL NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION BY GENDER AND REGION (102-8) 2016 Beirut POP Chtaura Halba Warehouse Jounieh Thoum Nabatieh Saida Tripoli Total Female 404 15 4 5 0 10 3 1 5 7 454 Male 620 19 7 3 11 3 3 4 4 9 683 Total 1024 34 11 8 11 13 6 5 9 16 1137 2017 Beirut POP Chtaura Halba Warehouse Jounieh Thoum Nabatieh Saida Tripoli Total Female 387 15 4 5 0 10 3 1 5 8 438 Male 632 19 7 3 11 3 3 4 4 10 696 Total 1019 34 11 8 11 13 6 5 9 18 1134 TABLE 13 RATE OF NEW EMPLOYEES HIRED IN 2016 AND 2017 BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION (102-8) Age Gender Location < 30 years 30 50 years > 50 years Male Female Parallel Pine Thoum Bint Jbeil Towers 2016 83.33% 11.11% 5.56% 83.33% 16.67% 44.44% 41.67% 8.33% 2.78% Parallel Pine Rachaya Tripoli Towers 2017 71.43% 21.43% 7.14% 92.86% 7.14% 28.57% 57.14% 7.14% 7.14% 81 TABLE 14 RATE OF EMPLOYEE TURNOVER IN 2016 & 2017 BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION Age Gender Location < 30 years 30 50 years > 50 years Male Female Headquarters Stores/PoPs 2016 75.86% 20.69% 3.45% 58.06% 41.94% 93.10% 6.90% 2017 54.55% 45.45% 0% 59.09% 40.91% 90.91% 9.09% Our employees receive a number of benefits In order to ensure a balanced work-life, our leaves policies are sustained to increase the employee motivation and their such as life and medical insurance, parental commitment at work. and personal leave. (102-8) Pregnant There are several leaves that employees can benefit from: employees are entitled to 90 days of maternity leave before and after delivery. The Wedding leave: employees who are getting married paternity leave is extended to 3 days for the benefit from a week off father upon the delivery date. In 2016, 210 of Nursing mother’s special leave: all mothers employees our employees benefited from parent’s leave, who are nursing a child can benefit from a one hour reduction from their daily working hours until the child and in 2017, the number went up to 228. reaches the 1st year Parent’s special leave: All parents with children under 10 years old can benefit from a one hour reduction from their daily working hours (102-8) Student’s special leave: our employees who are pursuing post graduate studies can benefit from a one hour reduction up to three times a week upon providing a regular study schedule 82 NURTURING EMPLOYEES: WE START FROM WITHIN TABLE 15 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY LEAVE TYPE IN 2016 & 2017, AND BY GENDER (102-8) Wedding leave Nursing leave Parent’s leave Student leave 2014 Women 14 51 65 3 2014 Men 10 N/A 41 5 2015 Women 15 43 72 8 2015 Men 27 N/A 81 10 2016 Women 17 47 86 6 2016 Men 17 N/A 124 3 2017 Women 13 30 96 1 2017 Men 23 N/A 132 4 FIGURE 21 OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE TO PHYSICALLY CHALLENGED EMPLOYEES Equal Benefits “By supporting the employment of Workplace Wellbeing People with Iron Will who make more than 3 percent of the Alfa team, Equal Training Opportunities we have proudly and voluntarily Equal Remuneration Opportunities exceeded the quota stipulated by the Equal Employment Opportunities law in regards to their employment” 2017 Marwan Hayek Accessibility to Facilities and Services 84 % 78 % 83 3-BENEFITS FOR ALL EMPLOYEES (401-2) All Team Member employed on permanent basis: 1. Transportation Allowance: $10/day 2. Incentive plan: 2.5 months of Global Salaries distributed based on individual and Corporate performance 3. Tuition fees / School and Kindergarten Allowance: up to $18K/year/employee 4. Personal mobile allowance: $80/month 5. Special allowance for on-call employees of $100/week 6. Night Shift allowance: ranging from $1.5 to $3 per hour 7. Meal allowance: whenever an employee cannot benefit from Alfa Canteen services 8. Mobile subsidy allowance 9. Wedding allowance of $1K 10. Sales Team 11-Sales Commission Scheme Up to 15% NonFinancial Benefits: All Team Member employed on permanent basis: 1. Medical Insurance: Class A (first class) In/Out including Doctors visits; medicines and lab tests covered 100% 2. Medical Insurance for direct dependents subsidized by the company 3. Life insurance for the employee for: $50K 4. Mobile Line 4. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS Reasonable and competitive rewards and benefits in per week, medical insurance, life insurance, transportation comparison to market rates are offered to Alfa’s employees. allowance, school tuition benefits for employees, mobile Our salaries and compensation packages are competitive allowance, canteen tickets, employees’ have a company and often surpass those mandated by the Lebanese doctor at disposal during working hours, and advances on labor law, comprising: 18 to 30 days of paid vacation days salaries when needed. commensurate with tenure, in cases of mourning within the employees’ families there are special days off, the education needs of minor children are allotted special hours off 84 NURTURING EMPLOYEES: WE START FROM WITHIN 5. PROMOTIONS To properly manage our industry’s technological growth In 2017, Alfa promoted 9 people and 37% of them were and exploit our employees’ competencies, Alfa is keen to females. boost the promotion opportunities for talent present in the company. In 2016, Alfa promoted 12 people, and 25% of them were females. 6. EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY, AND WELLBEING Alfa’s achievements are directly linked to the health, safety on sites. (403-2; 416-2) The injured employees were assisted and well-being of its employees. We have a complete with first aid assistance and then taken to the hospital, in Technical Occupational Health and Safety Guidelines and we both cases (403-2). Our employees at Alfa are valuable aim to keep people safe by avoiding injuries, and we invest in assets. Hence, our highest priority is exposing our people safety training every year. Our employees are also pushed to across various practices. We offer a stress free and shared adopt healthy lifestyles through internal mindfulness, such environment to apply programs to enhance our employees’ as the benefits of healthy eating habits and risk factors tied incentive and assurance. The internal engagement activities to smoking. that occurred during the last two years include: the yearly Alfa Christmas Village event, Alfa Christmas Kids Party, Only 10 work-related occurrences in our workforce were Mothers’ Day festivity, Alfa Family day, and our yearly Gala recorded during 2016 and 2017, 6 in Alfa premises and 4 dinner regrouping all Alfa family. 7-PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT While Alfa employees’ personal aims are coinciding with made where employees are given productive development Alfa corporate targets, the Performance Management feedback on their presentation and direction on future Program works on refining and appreciating Alfa career development and plans helping them grow to their employees’ performance and sustaining their career potential. advancement. Every employee’s contribution is tied to corporate goals achievement, and to make sure there is In 2017, 1026 of our full time employees were subject to the enough follow-up on purposes achievement progress, a performance assessment program mid-year review exercise is done. Performance in terms of core, and technical and managerial competencies are the with an individual final rating, out of 100% weighing, divided chosen criteria for the review. The Performance Appraisal as follows: System that is done once every year gives Alfa employees • 45% related to competencies assessment (core, technical feedback on their performance, behavior, communication and managerial), in addition style and skills. According to the areas of development to other criteria related to corporate culture adherence . recognized in the assessment, a development plan is also • 55% based on yearly objectives achievements. 85 FIGURE 22 TALENT DEVELOPMENT AT ALFA New Employee Learning & Development Continuous Learning Culture Orientation Orientation Material Informal Learning Individual Development plan Employee Management Development plan Handbook Individual & Organizational Webinars Development Internal Training Design & Delivery Internal Knowledge Succession Planning & Development sharing External Knowledge sharing for Students/Academics Safety & Security Quality Organizational Awareness International Best Practices Feedback Collection and Reporting Assessment of Learning Efficiency Continuous Improvement 8. TALENT MANAGEMENT Alfa employees make up the heart of our business; therefore, regardless of their gender or race. We support the our long-term business plan and branding and competitive Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination strategy is dependent on our talent management. Our against Women, the Convention on the Rights of Persons capability to properly grow, recollect and involve the most with Disabilities and the Convention on the Rights of the talented people, affect our business presentation and longChild. term sustainability. We also pay equal wages to our employees depending on At Alfa, treating our employees equally is our priority, the type of the work done for men and women (405-2). 9. DISCIPLINARY AND GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Alfa is proud of its positive and structured method to measures at the company and shows the steps that need guaranteeing that its practices boost confidence in its to be done in case of any misconduct. The Lebanese Labor stakeholders, including its employees. Thus, a Disciplinary Law is taken into account, and Alfa’s employees are given a Overall Learning Policy has been placed, which justifies the disciplinary chance to clear up their stand on the case under this policy. Efficiency ( 404-1) 10. HUMAN RIGHTS Alfa follows ethical business standards in agreement with our internal code of conduct. WeTraining supportSatisfaction the Universal the international norms and standards of top practice. We Rate Declaration of Human Rights by considering and promoting perform our procedures and business relationships in line ethical conduct amongst our employees, customers, with the appropriate laws and guidelines in Lebanon and stakeholders and business partners.(412-3) Training Efficiency Rate 86 TABLE 16 HUMAN IMPACT ASSESSMENTS IN 2016 (412-1) Documents Types Creation Update Grand Total (Introduced) (Revised) Policy 2 0 2 Procedure 1 3 4 Process 2 0 2 Specific Form 4 6 10 Grand Total 9 9 18 TABLE 17 HUMAN IMPACT ASSESSMENTS IN 2017 (412-1) Documents Types Creation Update Grand Total (Introduced) (Revised) RTS Manual 0 1 1 Guideline 5 1 6 Policy 4 5 9 Procedure 3 6 9 Process 0 1 1 Specific Form 12 8 20 Work Instruction 0 6 6 Grand Total 24 28 52 87 INVESTING IN OUR COMMUNITY BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS 88 BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS PILLAR FIVE: COMMUNITY INVESTMENT We believe in building a Sustainable Business Model by community well-being, green responsible resource investing our talents and engaging our stakeholders for the utilization, Education and Technology Trends. benefit of our Society, our People and our Environment through pioneering responsible operations and initiatives. The pillar includes our obligation to assist the communities around us, by highlighting problems that are crucial to the Our long-term strategic involvement towards our Lebanese today like community support initiatives, youth community keeps on growing. The community investment encouragement, digital inclusion, health, and environmental initiatives and contributions are at the heart of our CSR supervision. The top basics of this pillar comprise the program and our Corporate Sustainability Strategy since following: (102-12) 2015. As a responsible telecom operator in matters of social responsibility and social development, we made 1Alfa 4-Life CSR Program sure to expand our focus areas and to work hand in hand 2Give 4-Life with various stakeholders in order to ensure long-term 3Youth Programs and Digital inclusion sustainable initiatives that will create opportunities and 4Alfa 4-Sports build on the shared values. The main pillars of our social 5Drive 4-Life responsibility program that marked 2016-2017, focuses on 6Miscellaneous Awareness Campaigns Children in Communication needs, women empowerment, 7Green stewardship/Alfa 4-Nature 1. ALFA 4-LIFE CSR PROGRAM “At Alfa we focus attention on an area that is critically important, now and for generations to come by investing our social efforts on improving lives of children with communication needs.” Alfa 4-Life showcases “the human side of Alfa” through Alfa started collaborating with our local community and which we strive to give back to our community and respond respectively teamed up with local NGOs that focus on to its needs. It is the flagship of our Sustainability journey and the children, as we believe children are our future. Our a pledge 4-life. Through this 12-year program and ongoing, social initiatives tackle areas that are challenging to the we continue to actively support the cause of People with children by adding the values to their lives in order to open Iron Will as part of our commitment to the 2030 UN up new horizons for their development and contribute Sustainable Agenda and particularly SDG#10: Reduced to a sustainable future for our generations. Expanding Inequalities. We have launched more than 25 initiatives and the children perspectives, offering them new prospects art therapy programs to support their integration over the and giving meaning to their existence, are our motto that past years. enlightened our journey and reinforces our determination. Our program reaches more than 3000 children. 89 As we continuously work on improving the quality of and accomplishments, we organize yearly events that lives of our children with “Iron Will”, and specially their highlight the progress of our children and accomplishment communications skills, Alfa partners with leading therapists throughout the year and bring joy and fulfillment to their and mentors to give our children the opportunity to express hearts. themselves and to build their capabilities and talents. In 2016 and 2017, we collaborated with the NGOs to create Multiple NGOs that share Alfa’s concept and principles, are programs that fulfill the needs of our children by giving them supported by Alfa 4-life including: Lebanese Autism Society the abilities and capacities to excel in handmade arts, mosaic (LAS), SOS Children’s Villages, Acsauvel, SESOBEL, Father and furniture; in addition, we continued to coach their vocal Andeweg Institute for the Deaf (FAID), the Lebanese School techniques by well-known vocalists and allowed them to for the Blind and Deaf (LSBD) and Association Francophone explore their own potentials. To celebrate children’s success Pour Les Malades Mentaux (AFMM). “I am very proud to say that through “Alfa 4-life”, we are setting the “culture of inclusion” in Lebanon. We have launched the naming of “People with Iron Will” to completely replace “People with special needs” as these children continue to inspire us with their ability to give and create and deserve the recognition and to be given equal opportunities.” Marwan Hayek WITH THE LEBANESE AUTISM SOCIETY (LAS): In 2010, Alfa has discovered the painting talent of Ali Tlais, for public recognition. Ali held in 2016 his 6th exhibition a young artist with Autism during a group competition “Lebanese Icons” and 7th exhibition “Maisons Traditionnelles for figurines. Alfa believed in Ali’s talent, and has put at his Libanaise” at the Beirut Art Fair (BAF). It is worth noting that disposal all the necessary elements for developing his artistic Ali’s paintings are permanently exhibited at the Grand Serail abilities including: drawing and painting lessons, needed in Beirut and the Ministry of Social Affairs. material for practicing the art of painting and exhibitions 90 BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS WITH ACSAUVEL Since Alfa 4-Life inception, and stemming from Alfa’s students as part of Alfa 4-life CSR program is essential in firm belief in the therapeutic attributes of Sports, Alfa has strengthening their abilities to engage with the outside been organizing an annual Sports Day for the students of world and in enhancing their physical and mental health, ACSAUVEL. This event is the result of a year-long training thus improving their quality of life and well-being. by specialized trainers for the children provided by Alfa. This therapeutic training and activity offered to ACSAUVEL WITH THE SOS CHILDREN’S VILLAGES LEBANON: Alfa and the SOS Children’s Villages Choir solidarity with the help of specialized instructors from the Since 2006, and stemming from Alfa’s belief in Art therapy Lebanese Conservatory and from Al Fayhaa. At the end of and namely the soothing effect of music on SOS children each year, the Children perform during a Christmas Concert who suffer from social problems, Alfa has established a to showcase their developed skills and talents in front of a choir for SOS as part of its Alfa 4-Life CSR program. SOS select audience in reputable venues such as the UNESCO Children had the chance to express themselves, overcome and Assembly Hall at AUB. their social problems and better build a team spirit and 91 WITH SESOBEL Supporting the sustainability of SESOBEL through the enhancement of their products. Alfa has designed a new trendy brand “Les Délices d’Alice” for the chocolate and biscuits products of Sesobel. “Les Délices d’Alice” by Sesobel Boutique in Achrafieh, was completely designed to be equipped and renovated in harmony with the new brand by Alfa 4-Life program, showcasing the new trendy products and packaging to be inaugurated in 2018. The new brand helps in assuring Sesobel sustainability since Sesobel financial resources mostly rely on the production and sales of products made in their workshops. WITH THE FATHER ANDEWEG INSTITUTE FOR THE DEAF: In 2016: FAID students exhibited handmade Mosaic In 2017: FAID students learnt the “Ikebana” Japanese Art of furniture of their own creation after having completed flower arrangement. workshops and revived a traditional craft. 92 BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS WITH THE LEBANESE SCHOOL FOR BLIND AND DEAF BAABDA (LSBD): Three breathtaking sculpture exhibitions by LSBD students Lebanese sculptors like Anachar Basbous and Naim Doumit. were held so far as part of Alfa 4-Life program at la Résidence All proceeds went to LSBD and the students. des Pins. All the three exhibitions were held under the patronage and in the presence of French Ambassadors. All 2017: “Doigtés Dorés” LSBD Exhibition artworks were created in a workshop given by renowned In 2016, the Lebanese School for Blind and Deaf, through having completed workshops provided by Alfa within the the Alfa 4-Life CSR program, took part in the Beirut Garden art therapy program, which aims at giving them the required Show & Spring festival. The visually impaired students of skills in order to be better equipped in finding future careers LSBD exhibited wicker chairs and straw furniture crafted and sustain themselves as well as helping the LSBD sustain by them with a relooked design by Karim Chaaya, after themselves. 93 Life Changing Technology for three visuallya revolutionary technology that helps visually-impaired impaired students with Iron Will at LSBD people to see and enables them to engage in daily activities, In 2017, Alfa has offered the children Leticia, Christelle giving them autonomy and the opportunity to learn and and Muhannad, three e-Sight devices, which represent study in an appropriate environment. WITH THE “ASSOCIATION FRANCOPHONE POUR LES MALADES MENTAUX” AFMM: As part of Alfa 4-Life, aiming to raise awareness renowned paintings, cartoons and Lebanese icons to create about mental disorders and destigmatization of a pleasant mental illnesses, Alfa and AFMM partnered on the atmosphere that meets the needs of the psychiatry patients. below: Pictures In 2016, Alfa inaugurated with AFMM the redesigned In 2017, six movies tackling six different mental disorders psychiatry service were launched ward of the Hotel Dieu hospital that was refurbishes with during a Press Conference held at USJ. internationally 94 BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS 2. GIVE 4-LIFE: ENGAGING COMMUNITY BY SUPPORTING SOCIAL CAUSES (1004) As we seek to spread happiness among our community -Give 4-Life by short message to 1004 and subscribers and since giving makes people happier, -Give 4-Life using Alfa Mobile App we created “Give 4-Life”. Give 4-life platform allows our -Give 4-Life using Alfa website subscribers to donate to our partner NGOs, which are part of our Alfa 4-Life program, thus contributing to improve the As a recognition gesture to our donors, each respective lives of our children. NGO offers the top donor a handmade gift, crafted by the For better engagement and reach, we put at the disposal children. of our customers a variety of means that enable them to Happier People Give More: Subscribers Donations donate: for 2016: $89.000 and for 2017 $82000. FIGURE 23 ALFA SUBSCRIBERS DONATIONS 95 We launch SMS Fundraising campaigns year-round on the short code 1004, enabling our subscribers to donate. Also, our website donation tabs and Alfa application encourage users to donate online. Below are some examples: 96 BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS FEATURED STORY CHAIN OF LOVE PANEL GATHERS As part of its Alfa 4-Life CSR program, Alfa organized a Chain of Love panel which brought together ALFA AND ITS NGO PARTNERS TO CELEBRATE Alfa’s Chairman and CEO, Mr. Marwan Hayek and representatives of the seven associations supported by Alfa to celebrate 11 years of cooperation, friendship and 11 YEARS OF SUCCESS STORIES success stories. The dialogue also addressed the challenges faced by these associations and the means to strengthen cooperation with Alfa in order to support integration and achieve equality. “Eleven years after the launch of our Alfa 4-Life program, achieving sustainable development, particularly the 2030 we are still going strong, because this program is part of Sustainable Development Agenda and the SDG10, which our economic strategy and part of our company’s DNA. aims to achieve integration and reduce inequality within Our commitment is no longer only a commitment within society”. Alfa, but is now within the larger scope of our pledge to Marwan Hayek 97 3. YOUTH PROGRAMS AND DIGITAL INCLUSION Since technology is a prominent part of our lives, ALFA AND ERICSSON IOT AWARD: we ground our work in technological development In this context, and capitalizing on the idea of the youth as to create social positive change and originality. future leaders of change, who can leverage technology as Alfa aims to cultivate good networks for its customers a tool for digital transformation and impact, we launched and offer them the connectivity and technology that is the first of its kind competition, “Alfa and Ericsson IoT crucial for living, learning, and progressing in today’s hiAward”, driven by an operator and vendor and targeting tech economy. The digital presence is important for Alfa, Telecommunications, Computer and Electrical engineering this is our tactical system in which we make sure to give students, in cooperation with IEEE Young Professionals back to our society and the community in which we live Affinity Group. and work. It is our responsibility to ensure that technology and connectivity reaches all the marginalized and sidelined This competition has created space for young talents from people who are not able to benefit or access the internet. across Lebanon to compete to design an IoT-based business This is how Alfa began its Bayti fixed wireless landline that case project, using an IoT kit provided by Alfa and Ericsson permits customers in remote villages in Lebanon to make and including a connectivity aspect over Alfa network. This and obtain national and international voice calls, giving them competition encouraged young minds and talent to channel with crucial Internet access (203-1). their creative energy in new directions, while granting them needed exposure with telecommunications experts and decision makers from public sector, operators, vendors, academics, as well as incubators. 98 BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS GIRLS IN ICT DAY: Technology immensely affects our business, as it controls Since 2013 and until this day, Alfa has been organizing our social transformation. With the presence of the gender the International Girls in ICT Day, an International gap in the ICT sector around the world and in the Middle Telecommunications Union (ITU) initiative that promotes East, Alfa took the chance to direct its efforts on involving the presence of women in the ICT sector. women and amplifying their presence in the evolvement of the telecommunications sector. In 2016 and 2017, Alfa organized round tables, preparing diverse activities, giving a tour of the company and Additionally, Alfa constantly demonstrates the importance generating technological creativity competitions for female of an inclusive environment by embracing gender diversity students from many Lebanese schools. and equality, and demonstrating through concrete action that including women in the work force will yield social and economic benefits in the ICT sector. 4. ALFA 4-SPORTS At Alfa, we do believe that sport is essential for the health At Alfa, we do consider that our Business accomplishments and the wellbeing of our community and consider it an and triumphs if not interwoven with the benefit of our opportunity for unity and cohesion. In line with this belief community, will not reach its full potential. Accordingly, we and Alfa’s culture, we proudly support our local sports and are constantly backing up our Lebanese players in a wide national Lebanese leagues and are the main sponsor of selection of sports, all over Lebanon. many marathons, tournaments, national Lebanese teams and leagues as well as our internal colleagues who are shining in local and international competitions, including Colleagues with “Iron Will”. 99 5. DRIVE 4-LIFE The health and wellbeing of the community lie at the heart of what we do across our CSR programs. Alfa walks the talk and leads the way by taking actions and embedding best practice norms as per the international quality systems, and was awarded ISO 39001:2012 in November 2017. Since road crashes are the first killer among our youth (aged between 0-35 years) and knowing that they cost the country yearly between 1% and 3% of the GDP of Lebanon, Alfa took the initiative to develop its Alfa Drive 4-Life program which complements Alfa’s CSR commitment and complies with ISO 39001, ISO 26000 and the UNGC principles. Alfa launched since 2013 several Road Safety campaigns with Kunhadi, the ISF, LIRSA and the National Traffic Safety Council and is currently releasing monthly tips on its social media channels to increase public awareness. Alfa’s Safe Driving Culture encompasses the following: Working in a safe environment Riding a safe and clean fleet Enjoying free, safe, and modern transportation modes Avoiding claims and liability raised out of malfunction Sharing our commitment with our community Alfa internal initiatives Extending awareness and training for employees Creation of “Alfa Car Fleet Team” Installation of GPS tracking application on operational cars Integration of car management operations on ERP system Performing Weekly Physical inspection to all Alfa car fleet Alfa External Initiatives Putting at the disposal of the public a Hotline number related to Alfa fleet driving manners Alfa and Kunhadi launch Road Safety Campaign “There is no Network Underground”, February 2016 Alfa sponsors # awareness campaign, December 2016 Alfa and the National Road Safety Council launch , November 2017 100 BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS FEATURED STORY “Obtaining the ISO 39001 certification in Road Traffic Safety Management means that we have pledged to transform the company’s buildings and surroundings into pedestrian friendly buildings that provide safe entry and exit, and reduce the Lebanese road risks. It also means that we have trained the entire Alfa staff on the principles of safe driving so they can become a role model in the community and in their families. Moreover, we have developed all the company’s internal policies to reflect our commitment”. Marwan Hayek “Eleven years after the launch of our Alfa 4-Life program, achieving sustainable development, particularly the 2030 we are still going strong, because this program is part of Sustainable Development Agenda and the SDG10, which our economic strategy and part of our company’s DNA. aims to achieve integration and reduce inequality within Our commitment is no longer only a commitment within society”. Alfa, but is now within the larger scope of our pledge to Marwan Hayek 101 6. MISCELLANEOUS AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS Committed in our part as a responsible business we always For the entire month of October, we changed the Alfa logo exert extra effort to increase consciousness and awareness to pink as a symbol of solidarity and to serve as a constant around the damages of using our technology during reminder to anyone who sees the logo to either get checked insecure circumstances like texting and driving. or encourage their loved ones and friends to get checked. Alfa also introduced a wide variety of awareness campaigns about topics connected to breast cancer, waste management, blood donations, and more. BREAST CANCER AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS: In 2016, inspired by Facebook’s “marked as safe” feature we created a sharable post that allows women to mark themselves as safe, granted they’ve been checked. We asked women who have performed all necessary checks for breast cancer to share the post and tag 5 of their friends/family members to do the same. By doing so, they get the chance to win a Pink Gold iPhone. 7. GREEN STEWARDSHIP/ALFA 4-NATURE As we evolve in our sustainability journey, our green We have put in place responsible environmental initiatives, commitment to minimize the impacts of our operations on embracing the latest technologies in terms of energy savings the environment grows and becomes more solid and well and operational efficiency towards renewable energy embedded within our business practices. Environmental sourcing. We are also working towards a sustainable and stewardship marks an important part of our 5th pillar and precautionary growth. overall strategy. Accordingly, we have taken active steps to introduce green We continuously assess our environmental footprint service initiatives, secure energy efficiency, manage our and are always looking for ways to reduce it. Following waste, introduce green areas, and acquire value enhancing all our continuous efforts, we consider ourselves as the services or products, among others. environmental advocates of our community. 102 BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS • Improve overall environmental impact • Reduce waste • Improve resource efficiency OUR AIM • Increase stakeholder and customer trust • Develop corporate image and credibility IS TO: • Drive down costs • Achieve strategic business aims • Increase new business opportunities • Gain competitive advantage in supply chain design • Meet legal obligations Our green program consists of 3 main pillars: 3. Embedding environmental systems and routines within our business operations 1. Raising awareness of our employees We regularly develop, update and review our quality • With respect to environment challenges documents and specifically our work instructions in order to • With respect to saving energy make sure that all our business activities are being performed • With respect to the green best practices with respect to the environmental quality standards and in alignment with the best practices. 2. Engaging our employees for adopting green habits Our customs and constant need for development ensures As we believe in the power of the team and the goodness that our business activities are properly executed and up of adopting green habits, we created the Green Agents to date with our quality documents and work instructions team. Our Green agents are from all different sectors, they to insure that the execution of our activities aligns with were trained about the best green practices and specifically environmental quality criteria. regarding our waste management framework. They are Several measures as seen below are executed on Alfa facilitators of change and play a major role in enabling the network side yet decreasing the energy consumption, mainly endorsement of green habits within Alfa premises. related to optimizing the sites space usage and decreasing the overall network power. Our continuing action as to decommissioning and swapping of the traffic from the older nodes onto the newer and more eco-friendly nodes is still ongoing in Alfa’s network. 103 TABLE 18 ENERGY CONSERVATION MEASURES (302-1,4,5) Existing systems of Measures Taken equipment Lighting Installation of electronic type ballasts energy efficient in buildings, Alfa stors and warehouses Installation of motion detectors in Alfa premises and parking LED lights are distributed within the company and all recent Alfa stores, and sensors are installed to reduce the power utilization Ait Conditioning Turning louvers, reducing leakage of existing elbows Installation of timers for AC at Alfa premises Installing of new digital thermostat for Central AC units in Alfa premises Office equipment Automatic power save for copiers, shredders, screens and others (PC, Scanners, PC and printers configuration for turn OFF sleep mode Photocopiers, Shredder, etc...) Network tool for power management: enable sleep mode Common Services Fans and pumps schedule on building management system at Alfa premises Power generators Power shut down for Alfa floor lightings and preises Main distribution board Registration of hous meter readings at each gasoil refilling for Alfa generators Usage of LCD monitors All screens are LCD Installing programmable Done for pine planters timers for irrigation systems Installation of solar control Done in all Alfa premises; 3M film is installed on the glass facades to reduce heat transfer window film on clear glass and improve the AC efficiency, however, to further improve AC utilization, the thermostats and air flows should be set to optimal configuration and locked. The collaboration between the team, along with change agents who are skilled in the top green practices to incorporating green habits as a lifestyle has created the create positive change and endorse green habits at Alfa. Green Agents team, which includes the proactive green 104 BEYOND THE WALLS OF OUR BUSINESS: IMPACTING OUR COMMUNITY IN PROFOUND WAYS TABLE 19 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE RECYCLING TYPE DURING 2016 Total weight of waste recycling type during 2016 (306-2) CRE Paper Plastic Aluminum CO Total weight Paper waste (KG) ofCard recycling board (KG) Books type (KG)duringBottles 2016(KG) (306-2)Card board (KG) CRE 2146 Paper 2218 1625 395 Plastic 2218 Aluminum CO Total weight Paper (KG) ofCard waste recycling board (KG) Books (KG)duringBottles type 2017(KG)(306-2) Card board (KG) TABLE 2146 20 Paper TOTAL 2218 WEIGHT OF WASTE 1625 RECYCLING TYPE DURING 2017 Plastic 395 Aluminum 2218 Paper Total (KG) ofCard weight wasteboard (KG) Books recycling (KG)duringBottles type 2017(KG)(306-2) Card board (KG) 3194 Paper 1869 337 411 Plastic 251 Aluminum Paper (KG) Card board (KG) Books (KG) Bottles (KG) Card board (KG) 3194 1869 337 411 251 FIGURE 24 ALFA 4-NATURE Alfa 4-Nature: (301-2) FEATURED STORY In 2016 and 2017, Alfa reduced its oil We are proud to have sponsored the 4th consumption by 17,000 liters edition of the Lebanese Diaspora Energy (LDE) conference in 2017. In 2016 and 2017, Alfa was able to save around 46,000 KWh of energy People were able to watch as we planted a cedar tree in their name at Barouk forest through Alfa In 2016 and 2017, Alfa saved around 4G+ live streaming. 333,000 liters of water (303-3) In 2016 and 2017, Alfa saved 213 trees from recycling papers and cardboards In 2016 and 2017, Alfa saved 54 cubic meters of green nature from being used as landfill space for waste In 2016 and 2017, Alfa reduced its air pollutant particles by 347 Kg 105 CLOSING STATEMENT: All our achievements featured in this report put us one step closer to the 5G commercial rollout which we are planning “In the next 15 Years 5G will lift mobile into a technology in early 2019. This is part of our commitment of making that changes the world Global real GDP will grow at an our infrastructure ready for machine learning and artificial average rate of 2.9%, of which 5G will contribute 0.2% of intelligence and hence the next digital revolution which that growth (2018)” Lebanon and Alfa will be among the first to embrace. Marwan Hayek $12.3 22 $3 TRILLION MILLION TRILLION JOBS 106 Engage with us: This report can be accessed at https://www.alfa.com.lb/en/csr/alfa-sustainability-report. If you are interested in learning more about Alfa or continuing the discussion, we also welcome you to engage with us via our social media channels below alfa.telecom Alfatelecom alfatelecommuications www.linkedin.com/company/alfa-mic1 External Audits and assurance External audits for the ISO 39001:2012 on Road Traffic Safety Management were executed on 25-26-27 October 2017 and the certificate was awarded on the occasion of the world day of remembrance for road traffic victims, on the 3rd of November 2017. PwC is the external auditors for financial reports.(102-45) The Global compact network Lebanon is the body for External Assurance.(102-56) This report has been produced in accordance with the GRI core and comprehensive standards.(102-54) [1] The contact point for questions regarding this report is Mrs. Souha Bou Rjeily souha.bourjeily@alfamobile.com.lb (102-53) 107 APPENDICES 108 Appendix 1: GRI Index (102-55) GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational Profile General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 102-1 Name of the organizations 11 102-2 Activities, brands, products and 11 services 102-3 Location of headquarters 11 102-4 Location of operations 11 102-5 Ownership and legal form 11 102-6 Markets Served 11 102-7 Scale of the organization 13, 60, 61, 62 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 78, 80, 81, 82, 83 102-9 Supply Chain 29 102-10 Significant changes to the 29, 51, 75 organizations and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 45 102-12 External Initiatives 89 102-13 Membership of associations 21 Strategy General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 102-14 Statement from senior decision10 maker Ethics and Integrity General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and 41, 44 norms of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and 41 concerns about ethics 109 Appendix 1: GRI Index (102-55) Governance General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 102-18 Governance Structure 42, 43 102-19 Delegating Authority 42 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for 51 economic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on 29 economic,environmental and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest 42 governance body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance 42 body 102-24 Nominations and selecting the 42 highest governance body 102-25 Conflicts of Interest 51 102-26 Role of highest governance body in 42 setting purpose,values and strategy 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest 42 governance body 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance 42 body’s performance 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 47 processes 102-31 Review of economic, environmental 42 and social topics 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in 42 sustainability reporting 110 Appendix 1: GRI Index (102-55) Stakeholder Engagement General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 102-40 List of Stakeholder Groups 29 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 35 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 29, 31 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 29, 32, 33 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 32 Reporting Practice General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 102-46 Defining report content and topic 34 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 35 102-49 Changes in reporting 3 102-50 Reporting period 3, 11 102-51 Date of most recent report 11 102-52 Reporting Cycle 3 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 107 report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 3, 107 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 109-113 102-56 External Assurance 107 GRI 103: Management Approach General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 36 boundary 111 Appendix 1: GRI Index (102-55) ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE (GRI 201) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 75 distributed MARKET PRESENCE (GRI 202) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired 44 from the local community INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS (GRI 203) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 98 supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 71, 74, 75 PROCUREMENT PRACTICES (GRI 204) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 75 ANTI-CORRUPTION (GRI 205) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 49 corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti49 corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 49 actions taken ENVIRONMENT ENERGY (GRI 302) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 302-1 Energy consumption within the 104 organization 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 104 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of 104 products and services EFFLUENTS AND WASTE (GRI 306) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 105 112 Appendix 1: GRI Index (102-55) SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (GRI 308) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 74 environmental criteria OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (GRI 403) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 85 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities TRAINING AND EDUCATION (GRI 404) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 79 transition assistance programs DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (GRI 405) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 86 women to men HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT (GRI 412) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 412-1 Operations that have been subject to 87 human rights reviews or impact assessment 412-3 Significant investment agreements and 86 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights fighting CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY (GRI 416) General Standard Disclosures Description Pages 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety 55 impacts of product and service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 85 health and safety impacts of products and services 113 Appendix 2: Implementation of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Core Area UNGC Principles Examples of Implementations at Alfa • Alfa’s ethical business standards and internal code of conducts in accordance with international norms and standards of best practice. • Alfa’s operations and business relationships in line with the applicable laws and regulations in Lebanon • Alfa endorses the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by respecting and promoting ethical conduct amongst our employees, customers, stakeholders and business partners. Principle 1: • A large number of our operations have been subject to Businesses should support and respect the protection of human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments internationally proclaimed human rights such as LPHU Training in 2015 Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses • Same as above • Alfa abides by ethical business standards in accordance with international norms and standards of best practice. We conduct our operations and business relationships in Principle 3: line with the applicable laws and regulations in Lebanon and Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and our internal code of conduct and endorse the Universal the recognition of the right to collective bargaining Declaration of Human Rights Labour • Progressive employment practices pertaining to diversity, equal opportunity, training and talent development, Principle 4: occupational health and safety Compliance with Lebanese The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Labor Law Principle 5: • Alfa advocates the Convention on the Rights of the Child The effective abolition of child labor 114 Core Area UNGC Principles Examples of Implementations at Alfa Progressive working conditions for staff as shown in the Report where we aim to include and support employees of different genders, religions, and age groups Alfa believes in eliminating gender discrimination and advocates the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Principle 6: We ensure a supportive workplace that reflects equality, The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment diversity, and inclusionthe cornerstones to our sustainability Labour and occupation efforts and our company success. “Alfa 4-Nature” initiative Principle 7: Adopting new ways to reduce our energy consumption Businesses should support a precautionary approach to and cut down on our carbon emissions such as installing environmental challenges electronic type ballasts energy efficient in our premises “Alfa 4-Nature” initiative Principle 8: Assessing Suppliers based on Environmental issues Offering Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental environmental friendly products such as E-bill and E-recharge responsibility service Energy Efficiency: • Reducing energy consumption • Adopting energy efficient technologies • Using energy efficient components in our buildings • Renewable energy sourcing: powering our base stations Environment with SOLAR ENERGY • Energy efficient company fleet “Exhaust Oxygen Sensor” Waste Management: • Purchasing Recycling bins • Disposing Recycling bins in strategic areas Principle 9: • Conducting awareness to all Alfa employees Encourage the development and diffusion of • Deciding on storage areas environmentally friendly technologies • Collecting papers • Monitoring process • Ewaste recycling • Allow on-the spot purchase through NFC We do not tolerate any form of bribery and extortion and Principle 10: we aim to maintain a zero tolerance policy against all forms Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Anti-Corruption of corruption, both internally and externally including extortion and bribery 115 The 17 Sustainable Development Goals Appendix 3: Implementation of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals Examples of Implementation at ALFA Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • Alfa encouraged local sports and shed light on local talent by being the main sponsor of many marathons, tournaments, national sports teams and leagues as well as Alfa team members including those with “Iron Will” • Alfa launched “Let’s bring their Sight Back this Season” initiative as part of “Alfa 4-Life” • Alfa launched an awareness initiative on mental illnesses and ways of prevention and treatment through movies and refurbished the psychiatric ward of Hotel Dieu de France in partnership with AFMM • As part of its role as a responsible corporate citizen, Alfa launched the “No network underground” Road Safety campaign with Kunhadi and other Road Safety Campaigns with the ISF, LIRSA and the National Road Safety SDG 3 Council • In 2017, due to its commitment to Road Safety, Alfa was awarded the ISO 39001: 2012 for Road Traffic Safety Management as the 1st Telecom Operator in the MENA • Alfa continuously supports the well-being of people with “Iron Will” through Art and Sports therapy as part of Alfa 4-Life CSR initiatives •A  lfa launched the “Alfa and Ericsson” IoT Award Competition for university engineering students to encourage entrepreneurship and innovation (SDG9) SDG 4 • Alfa launched the A+ University Offer which is tailor-made to target university students exclusively • Alfa provides a benefit supportive plan to its employees who are seeking university studies • Alfa was the first Lebanese company to organize “Girls in ICT” event every year since 2013 as per ITU directive to teach young ladies about the telecom sector and the opportunities available to them and encourage them to pursue careers in the field SDG 5 • In 2017 our total number increased to reach 1033, comprising of 39%women and 61% men 116 Examples of Implementation at ALFA Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • With a stronger need for an agile and innovative telecom sector in the country, Alfa is continuously creating opportunities for decent employment in the company and through the ecosystem while introducing new SDG 8 technologies • Alfa fosters a synergistic work environment that values every employee, promotes respect and teamwork and strengthens its position as a Model Employer • Alfa provides the fastest internet innovations in the world to the Lebanese market • In 2017, Alfa completed its nationwide 4G+ rollout, covering 100% of its subscribers with LTE Advanced sites • Alfa launched customized products for youth students as well as initiatives and programs fostering innovation: Alfa A+, Alfa & Erricsson IoT Award for SDG 9 engineering university students, Girls in ICT day and supported Lebanese talents • Alfa opened a new State-of-the Art Alfa flagship store, the first of its kind in Lebanon and is planning to open 20 other similar stores soon across Lebanon • Alfa launched more than 13 new products and services • Alfa champions the cause of people with “Iron Will” by partnering with NGOs to support their inclusion and improve their productivity and financial independence • Youth Diversity is also important and 40.58% of Alfa employees are below SDG 10 the age of 30 years • Employees with “Iron Will” constitute more than 3% of Alfa’s Total Employee Population exceeding the 3% quota stipulated by the Law 220/2000 and ratified by Parliament in December 1999 to promote the rights of the disabled • As part of its role as a responsible corporate citizen, Alfa launched the “there is no connection underground” road safety campaign throughout the UN Decade of Action for Road Safety (2011-2020) as well as several awareness campaigns on road safety with Kunhadi, the ISF and the National Road Safety Council • Alfa family was trained on sound driving rules and was awarded the Road SDG 11 Traffic Safety management certification ISO 39001:2012 after the successful audit completion of Road Safety Policy for all its employees and Car fleet • Alfa sponsored many local festivals to encourage Art and Culture and support local communities 117 Examples of Implementation at ALFA Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • Alfa has a well-established Waste Recycling program in all Alfa premises (papers, cardboard, plastic and metal) • Alfa celebrates Earth Hour on a yearly basis SDG 13 • Alfa provides Green Tips to colleagues on a monthly basis • Alfa’s Green Bill initiative encourages customers to resort to e-bill instead of paper • Alfa supported many local NGOs through its Alfa 4-Life program • Alfa is a member of the UNGC and the GCNL Board of Directors which is continuously seeking to develop partnerships that create impact in the community • As part of its Alfa 4-LifeCSR program, Alfa organized a Chain of Love panel, SDG 17 which brought together Alfa CEO and Chairman Marwan Hayek and representatives of the seven associations supported by Alfa to celebrate 11 years of cooperation, friendship and success stories. The dialogue also addressed the challenges faced by these associations and the means to strengthen cooperation with Alfa in order to support. The dialogue also addressed the challenges faced by these associations and the means to strengthen cooperation with Alfa in order to support. The dialogue also addressed the challenges faced by these associations and the means to strengthen cooperation with Alfa in order to support integration and achieve equality 118
