Sustainability Report 2018 Boxon GmbH Adding value beyond the box Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report & Communication on Progress 2018 Table of Content Statement of continued support by the CEO 07 About Boxon GmbH 09 Human Rights 15 Labor 19 Environment 23 Anti-Corruption 31 Summary 34 Imprint 37 Adding value means sustainability Declaration of the Managing Director To our stakeholders I am pleased to reaffirm Boxon GmbHs support of the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in 2019. Our decision to become a participant of the Global Compact in 2018, was a logical step following the ethical principles we have applied to our business activities ever since. We share the values based on the Conventions of the UN and the International Labor Organization (ILO), as outlined in the Social Accountability International SA8000 standard. This report summarizes our past year activities in the area of human rights, environment, labor and anti-corruption, which we strictly align with the ten principles of the Global Compact. Our ambitious goal for 2019 is to be a pro-active and driving participant of sustainability dialogue within the packaging industry and to raise awareness among our business partners. Our vision is to develop the world's most intelligent, sustainable and value creating packaging concept Because for us, sustainability is one of the most precious values that we can offer to our customers and ourselves. Oliver Grüters 9 About Boxon GmbH Boxon GmbH is part of the Swedish Boxon Group, headquartered in Helsingborg, Sweden. The Boxon GmbH operates in Germany from two locations in Bremen and Krefeld and serves in particular the continental European market. With latest technologies and innovative services we offer our customers intelligent packaging solutions as a strategic value creator. To achieve this, we work as a team beyond national borders, constantly developing new ideas and expanding our offers. In 2018, with 21 employees, Boxon GmbH generated a revenue of 22,7 million euros with packaging products serving the industrial and trade sector on the market. In 2019, Boxon will focus on the strategic expansion of its portfolio. Sales Boxon GmbH Otto-Lilienthal-Straße 18 28199 Bremen Administration Boxon GmbH Weyerhofstraße 68 47803 Krefeld Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 10 The Boxon Group The swedish Boxon Group was founded in 1932 and is today located in 7 countries: More than 280 employees currently work in the headquarter in Helsingborg, Sweden and the legal entities in Germany (Boxon GmbH), France (Boxon SARL), Denmark (Boxon A/S), Norway (Boxon AS), Finland (Boxon OY) and China (Boxon China). The Group has 9 distribution centers with a total surface of 31 000 square meters with a permanent stock of 3 500 articles for 10 000 customers. The total group turnover in 2018 was 130 Million Euros. Boxon AB, Helsingborg, Sweden Boxon SARL Bordeaux, France Boxon China Shanghai, China Boxon GmbH Bremen and Krefeld, Germany Adding value beyond the box Who we are Boxon is an innovative business partner offering intelligent packaging concepts with full traceability fully integrated with the business needs. We analyse the outside world, inspire to new ideas and quickly design innovative solutions that continuously secure the packaging flow, from order to delivery. Our focus is primary companies within the industry-, tradeand logistic segments seeking a long-term partner. With our intelligent packaging concepts we help our customers to increase the value of their brand, to decrease the environmental impact and to strengthen our partner’s customer relations. Deliveries become traceable with intelligent system solutions for labels and marking. To improve our customer’s productivity, efficiency and profitability, we offer automatized solutions that can be integrated directly into the business process. Our Mission We are an innovative Business Partner who will turn the packaging concept into a strategic value creator. 11 Packaging Concept & Customer segments Packaging Labelling & Automation & Traceability integration Packaging has developed into Labelling and product marAn efficient packaging flow becoming a strategic value king are two proactive elecreates direct competitive creator. The right design, maments that can be coorstrength. By integrating auterial and function can incredinated for application on tomated packaging and laase profitability and optimize products, product packaging belling solutions in our cusafety, and also reduce the and transport packaging. stomers' business, we can environmental impact. For Our labelling solutions range help with cost savings and our customers, this can mean from small labels with laundry increased value for their own new business opportunities. guidelines to global standard clients. Boxondoes not depend on labels in the field of transport any material and we strive to and logistic solutions, QR achieve the right solution with codes, RFID codes and eveno restrictions on materials. rything in between. The industrial Logistics Trade and sector brand owners With extensive experience Increased digitalisation with Trade and brand owners comof manufacturing industry, sales in multiple channels panies are currently underwe know that different induand demands for ever shorgoing the biggest change of strial sectors face both comter delivery times are some their time. Digitalisation and plex and specific challenges. of the challenges faced by rapid technical developments The value chain for industrial most logistics companies are bringing totally new equipment is becoming innowadays. Consumers are opportunities for consumers creasingly global and is chademanding more and more and companies to compare racterised by complicated choice, in both how a product prices and to find new prologistics, which has an imis ordered and how it is then ducts and markets. pact on both packaging and delivered. labelling. Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 12 External initiatives EFIBCA As a long-standing member, Boxon is committed to the EFIBCA Code of Conduct. The EFIBCA-Q Quality Promise and EFIBCA Code of Conduct have been developed with a special focus on the particularities of the FIBC industry and promote the implementation of ethical principles and the application of an adequate and fair competitive behavior. IK Industrievereinigung Kunststoffverpackungen e.V. The association plays a major role in the public dialogue of the industry with politics and society and takes a proactive position on sustainability topics within the sector. Gesamtverband Kunststoffverarbeitende Industrie e.V. The German Association of plastic converters acts as the umbrella organization of the entire plastics processing industry in Germany. ISO Certifications Boxon GmbH has implemented a ISO 9001 and 14001 certified quality and environmental management system and conducts an external quality management audit on a yearly basis. Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 13 Certifications In the second quarter of 2018, Boxon GmbH conducted an assessment on its CSR (corporate social responsibility) performance with Ecovadis. Ecovadis provides a platform for reliable CSR ratings for businesses, taking into account each company’s sector, size and geographical location. After having been certified for the last time with a silver status in 2014, Boxon could now improve its’ score to Gold status. Particularly noteworthy is the fact that Boxon is in the TOP 2% of all companies in the category of „Manufacturers of plastic products” and in the TOP 3% of all companies evaluated on Ecovadis. Ecovadis Performance Environment Human rights & labour Boxon GmbH is in the Top 6 % of Boxon GmbH is in the Top 3 % of suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in the category Manufacture of plastics the category Manufacture of plastics products. products. Business Ethics Sustainable Procurement Boxon GmbH is in the Top 13 % of Boxon GmbH is in the Top 5 % of suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in suppliers assessed by EcoVadis in the category Manufacture of plastics the category Manufacture of plastics products. products. Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses W ith the main production areas of our business being located in Asia, the business relationship raises legitimate questions about human rights, occupational safety and fair business practices. As a company working in the packaging business, we are therefore facing important responsibilities. Boxon is committed to respecting human rights for all employees and all people directly affected by our business activities. We share the values based on UN and International Labor Organization Conventions, which are summarized in the International Standard SA8000 by Social Accountability International. It is our responsibility to ensure these fundamental rights in our day-to-day business. 16 Human Rights Principles At all Boxon sites, the compliance with universal human rights is required and implemented. The compliance with our principles related to work practices and business ethics is captured in several agreements and declarations. This primarily includes our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact, the Boxon Group CSR and the EFIBCA Code of Conduct. Our employees are expected to follow Boxon’s principles and take responsibility for their own behavior and for Boxon’s products and services. We attach great importance to the strict implementation of our principles and reject any form of • child labor or forced labor • Corruption, blackmail and bribery or inappropriate influence • Discrimination or harassment We offer all employees a safe and healthy working environment equal opportunities regardless of age, skin color, gender, nationality, religion, sexual orientation or ethnicity. Supplier policy In order to ensure that all of our suppliers apply human rights in their facilities with their employees, we have implemented a monitoring system that allows us to keep an overview at any time. Thus, we can easily detect crucial needs for action. The system mainly consists of three pilars, that are applied with every supplier within our supply chain: • Supplier agreement The supplier agreement regulates the cooperation between Boxon GmbH and the supplier. By signing the agreement, the supplier acknowledges that they are applying and guaranteeing universal human rights as well as principles of working conditions and business ethics in their facilities. The supplier also confirms to respect and follow the EFIBCA Code of Conduct, which regulates the areas of: • Antitrust and competition law • Health and employment requirements • Environmental protection • Bribery and corruption • Environmental protection • Child labor • Non-discrimination • Forced labor • Molestation • Wages • Freedom of opinion • Working hours • Privacy Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 17 • Supplier profiles & questionnaire In addition to the supplier agreement, Boxon maintains a database of its suppliers, which is constantly updated for relevant key performance indicators. These include the measures taken to respect human rights, labor standards and business ethics, as well as the level of energy consumption and measures taken to improve the energy balance. The data is renewed at least annually. • Supplier Audits Throughout the year, the purchasing manager conducts several visits to the suppliers facilities to check compliance with the agreed obligations. In addition, external audits are carried out with the help of certified third party auditors (e.g. Together for Sustainability). Our goal is to have 100 % of our suppliers signed the suppliers agreement and to conduct TfSAudit with 25 % of all suppliers in 2019. Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. B oxon has always attached great importance to common values that determine the cooperation within the company and with business partners, regardless of national borders. The Swedish corporate culture with flat hierarchies is practiced at all locations and creates a climate of trust based on mutual respect. Any form of child labor and forced labor is not accepted by Boxon GmbH and not tolerated. We do not only apply a strict zero tolerance policy at our own locations in Germany, but expect the same from our business partners and suppliers. For this reason, we conduct an annual audit as part of our quality management system. Our supply chain is continuously monitored for compliance with human rights and labor principles. Upon notification of violations, we take immediate action and strictly inspect the issue. Violations of the common agreements may result in the termination of the business relationship. 20 Employees Without exception, the human rights apply at all our offices. In accordance with our internal CSR guidelines and the EFIBCA Code of Conduct, we always act in such a way that the interests of the company and the interests of the employee do not conflict. We respect and fulfill our obligations to our employees in accordance with national laws and social security agreements as well as the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. It goes without saying that we do not tolerate child labor or forced labor. We regularly train our employees in relevant areas and offer further education opportunities. The appointment of first responders and the analysis of occupational safety as well as health related aspects are part of our quality management process. Occupational Health & Safety The well being of our employees is a basic principle for us and therefore directly integrated into our quality management processes, where we define strict conditions that must be fulfilled and that are assessed every year. The appointment of first responders and the analysis of occupational safety as well as health related aspects are part of our quality management process. In this process, the management is responsible for ensuring that the applicable legal and official regulations are observed and complied with. They must not allow working conditions that conflict with legal and regulatory requirements and they monitor compliance with the protective measures and regulations. Further compliance with all relevant areas of occupational safety is ensured by an entitled safety officer. The safety officer is responsible for preventing and reducing the risk of accidents, improving occupational safety and health and training employees in the relevant areas. He also accompanies safety inspections carried out by an external safety expert and prepares the meetings of the working committee. He compiles accident statistics and takes care of the administrative processing of accidents at work. The external safety expert also assists the management in the preparation of the risk assessment for the company. Together, they develop appropriate protective measures to prevent potential risks. The fact that we did not record any accident at work or work-related illnesses in 2018, proves the good performance of our system in place. Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 21 Employee survey Once a year, all of our employees have the opportunity to express their thoughts and feedback in an employee survey conducted by the Boxon Group. The answers are completely anonymous and cannot be related to a single person. The participants in the survey, which is conducted simultaneously in all countries, answer questions on Boxon as an employer in general, working conditions, workload, requirements, communication with supervisors, the possibilities of professional development at Boxon and other topics related to working life at Boxon. As for the other countries Boxon operates from, the results for Boxon GmbH are repeatedly positive. Particularly in the areas of workload, autonomous work and communication with superiors the employees give very good evaluation. For Boxon; the annual survey represents an important feedback from its employees. In case a need for action is identified in specific areas, measures can immediately be taken to improve the situation. The positive feedback is reflected on web based platforms, where employees can openly and voluntarily evaluate their employer. On the Kununu platform, Boxon has a score of 4,32 Points out of 5* and has been named one the German Top Employers of 2019, in Focus Business Ranking. 15 Employees Nb. % 12 Female 12 55 % 9 Male 10 46 % 6 Aged > 50 years 7 32 % 3 0 Female Male Aged > 50 Aged < 50 Equality and non-discrimination policy At Boxon, we rigorously apply the General Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz). This concerns our daily work, application processes and collegial cooperation. We therefore undertake to prevent or eliminate discrimination based on • ethnic origin • a disability • gender • age • religion or belief • sexual identity Contrary behavior will not be tolerated under any circumstances. We have therefore incorporated compliance with the General Equal Treatment Act into our management manual as a strict work instruction and as an integral part of our quality management process. * as of 8th of March 2019 Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. T he last years showed, that in our times, when climate change is no longer just a threat, but already has visible effects, the pressure to act is greater than ever. It is our obligation as a packaging company to react and to create solutions and ways of working that reflect the state our planet is facing. In this context, Boxon claims to be exemplary and proactive in promoting the sustainability dialogue and to drive it in the industrial sector in particular. We take our role very seriously and have implemented an approach in our way of working, that integrates sustainability as a leading factor in all areas of our activities. In 2018 we have launched the first climate neutral FIBC and a carbon offsetting program which allows us to actively contribute to climate protection together with our customers. We also reflect our own energy consumption in our day-to-day work and have a set of relevant key performances indicators to measure our Company Carbon Footprint. We train our employees in workshops about climate change and sustainability in the sales business and continue to expand our activities in this area in 2019. 24 Greenhouse gas balance 2018 The table below shows the total greenhouse gas emissions for the two locations in Bremen and Krefeld. The calculation, conducted by MyClimate, is based on energy consumption, refrigerants, business travels, commuting, materials and waste. The methodology is based on the internationally recognized standard GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting. All relevant greenhouse gases (greenhouse gases carbon dioxide, methane, nitrogen dioxide, hydrofluorocarbonates, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride) are taken into account according to IPCC 2007. 15 % [t CO2e] 62 % Energy consumption 32 9% Refrigerants 0 Business travel 129 Commuting 29 14 % Materials and waste 18 Total 207 Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 25 Energy Business CO2 consumption travels Compensation In 2018, we renewed We have begun to replaBased on this calculamost of our devices and ce on site meetings by vition, Boxon will set a sysreplaced them with nedeo conferences. Business tem to compensate for wer, more energy-effitravels are bundled to rethe greenhouse gases cient technologies. We duce the number of flights. caused by its business aim to reduce energy Our goal is to reduce the activities. Our goal is to consumption by 5 % by impact of business travels become a carbon neutral 2020. by 10 % by 2020. company in 2019. Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 26 Carbon offsetting program In order to reduce the carbon footprint caused by production processes, Boxon brought the specialists of the Swiss non-profit organization MyClimate on board in spring 2018. As part of the cooperation, a detailed carbon footprint was calculated for the Big Bag product group. A life cycle analysis (LCA) was used to evaluate all greenhouse gas emissions that occur during the different life stages of a big bag. The factors taken into account in the calculation include energy consumption, raw materials (incl. their delivery), operational waste, packaging (incl. delivery), transport, distribution, disposal and recycling. Based on the weight, the Product Carbon Footprint can be recalculated for every individual product from the same product family. With this calculation as a basis, Boxon applies the principle of CO2 compensation and calculates a contribution that is used to reduce CO2-emissions by supporting a climate protection project in Tanzania. The project allows customers to purchase climate neutral packaging for their products and thus reduce their own carbon footprint. The contributions from the participating customers are transferred directly to the climate protection project via MyClimate. The concept of CO2 compensation is based on the principle that CO2 emitted in one place is reduced elsewhere. The aim is that emissions and savings balance each other and result in climate neutrality. Product carbon footprint 7,1 kg / 1,5 kg Big Bag The carbon footprint of our products is calculated based on the lifecycle of each big bag. For this reason, all stages of the value chain had to be considered: • Energy consumption • Raw materials incl. delivery • Operational waste • Packaging incl. delivery • Distribution • Disposal and recycling Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 Achievements and targets 500 Participating customers Tons of CO2 compensated In 2018, Boxon with 26 customers 400 compensated for more than 189 t of CO2. In 2019, customers from larger 300 segments will increasingly be sensitized to the program, so that our target for the 200 coming year is 450 t of compensated CO2. 100 0 2018 2019 target 28 Solar energy for education and jobs With the contributions from the CO2 program, Boxon supports the climate protection program „Solar Energy for eduction and jobs” in Tanzania. We chose the project because, in addition to CO2 savings, it has a diverse socio-economic impact that directly benefits to the local population. The projects goal is to reduce CO2 emissions through the use of modern solar energy. For that purpose, high-tech solar systems are installed in low income households and small companies in rural areas of Tanzania. The solar systems are equipped with a GSM modem and can be purchased through a microfinance program. In this way, affordable clean solar energy replaces harmful fuels, kerosene in particular, which have not only led to increased CO2 emissions but also to serious health issues among the local population. Thanks to the innovative solar panels from the company Mobisol, health problems such as respiratory diseases and eye irritation are considerably reduced. The technology allows small companies to continue their business activities in the evening hours, thanks to better lighting and continuous energy supply. The smallest unit can light two rooms and charge four mobile phones per day. The largest system powers multiple lights, consumer appliances such as laptops, televisions or solar powered refrigerators and charges up to ten mobile phones simultaneously. This results in increasing economic efficiency and better opportunities for economic development in the market. More than 350 new jobs have been created thanks to the project and young peopleb are trained to install the solar systems. Since May 2018, Boxon customers can actively contribute to the project by purchasing climateneutral big bags. Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 29 Good health and well-being Affordable and clean energy Through the project, more than 400 000 people Mobisol company has distributed more than live with better air. Risks for infections resulting 42 600 solar panels from the use of harmful fuel is reduced. Decent work and economic Responsible consumption and growth production With more than 700 people trained in solar panel Close to 10000 tons of CO2 can be reduced installation, more than 350 jobs created and the per year. Through the programm, climate access to affordable electricity throughout the neutral products can be purchased and support day, the project allows development and economic sustainable procurement within the industry. growth of local businesses in rural areas. Climate action Partnership for the goals With the compensation of 189 tons of CO2 The partnership with MyClimate allows a new way in 2018, Boxon contributes directly to climate of sensibilization for sustainable procurement protection and the reduction of climate damaging within the packaging sector. emissions. Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 AntiCorruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. B oxon GmbH applies a strict anti-corruption policy in its business activities. It goes without saying that contracts can only be concluded if all relevant laws are respected and every possible form of corruption can be excluded to hundred percent. In line with our principles, the prevention and zero tolerance of corruption, bribery as well as the respect of anti-trust laws is a basis of all our activities. The company is committed to fair competition. Competition-protecting laws, in particular antitrust law and other competition-regulating laws are observed. Collusion on prices or other conditions, sales areas or customers as well a misuse of market power contradict the principles of the company. 32 Princples Within the company, no case of corruption or bribery has ever been recorded. We have integrated our zero-tolerance policy on corruption, bribery and antitrust rules into our business processes both internally, as a strict guideline for all employees, and externally within the framework of agreements and contracts with business partners and suppliers. Our policy is codified in various documents and declarations: • Supplier agreement • EFIBCA Code of Conduct • Boxon Group CSR Employees and suppliers undertake to comply with the principles by signature. Any suspicion of corrupt business practices by a business partner or in the immediate business environment must be reported immediately to the management. If the suspicion is confirmed or cannot be resolved, the business relationship will be terminated immediatly and further consequences will be examined. Prevention Corruption and bribery can take many forms. To ensure that our employees are able to identify them immediately, we regularly organize training courses. The aim of these courses is to make all employees aware of the risks within business. In addition, we ensure in this way that violations and resulting damages are prevented. In 2019 we aim to have a quote of 100 % of our employees trained in this area. Furthermore, every new employee will undergo a training as part of the integration to the company. Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 34 Summary In 2018, we implemented important projects that we derive directly from our responsibility as an internationally operating packaging company. Especially in the areas of responsible consumption and production and climate action (sustainable development goals 12 and 13) we see an urgent need for action for the packaging industry. That is why, in recent months we have developed solutions that reduce the carbon footprint caused by our business and production processes. In addition, we have worked to further refine our monitoring systems to easier identify weak points in the supply chain, especially regarding our ethical principles. In 2019, we will continue our activities and have set ourselves firm targets, which are summarized in the table below alongside our activities from 2018. Human rights Activities & achievements Goals 2020 Related SDG Principle 1: Businesses should • Compliance with universal human • Have 100 % of all suppliers 1-No Poverty support and respect the protection rights required at all sites and from signed the supplier of internationally proclaimed human all business parters. Definition in agreement 3-Good Health and rights; and different policies: Boxon Group Well-Being CSR; EFIBCA Code of conduct, 10 • Conduct TfS-Audit with 25 % Principle 2: Make sure that they principles of the Global Compact. of suppliers 10-Reduced are not complicit in human right Policies must be signed by employees Inequalities abuses. and business partners. • Supplier policy: Monitoring system regulating the cooperation between Boxon GmbH and the supplier. Includes required commitment to EFIBCA Code of conduct, Third party audits and Key performance indicators regarding human rights, labor practices and environmental aspects as well as general declaration of zero tolerance policy regarding violations of corruption-, briberyand anti-trust laws and agreements. Labor Activities & achievements Goals 2020 Related SDG Principle 3: Businesses should • Commitment to human rights, natio• Maintain the level of work3-Good health and uphold the freedom of association nal laws, social security agreements related illnesses and accidents well-being and the effective recognition of the as well as the freedom of association at 0 right to collective bargaining; and collective bargaining in Boxon 5-Gender quality Group CSR; EFIBCA Code of con• Creation of a training plan Principle 4: the elimination of all duct, 10 principles of the Global according to relevant areas 8-Decent work and forms of forced and compulsory Compact. economic growth labour; • Zero tolerance policy regarding 10-Reduced Principle 5: the effective abolition violations of childand forced labor inequalities of child labour; and principles Principle 6: the elimination • Occupational safety and health of discrimination in respect of processes audited and implemented employment and occupation. within the certified quality management system according to ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001:2015 Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 35 Summary Labor Activities & achievements Goals 2020 Related SDG Principle 3: Businesses should • Commitment to German General uphold the freedom of association Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines and the effective recognition of the Gleichbehandlungsgesetz) right to collective bargaining; • Gender neutral wording in Job Ads Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory • Regular trainings and education labour; (e.g.first responders; safety officer, environmental awareness) Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Ratio of female employees 55% Principle 6: the elimination • Ration of employees aged> 50 years of discrimination in respect of 32 % employment and occupation. • Total number of work-related illnesses: 0 • Total number of work-related accidents: 0 Environment Activities & achievements Goals 2020 Related SDG Principle 7: Businesses should • Commitment to UN Global Compact • Formalized travel policy 7-Affordable and support a precautionary approach to principles and SDG in environmental clean energy environmental challenges; policy • Reduce number of business travels by 10 % 12-Responsible Principle 8: undertake initiatives • Monitoring system for greenhouse Consumption and to promote greater environmental gas emissions related to production • Reduce energy consumtion production responsibility; and by 5 % • Monitoring system for greenhouse 13-Climate action Principle 9: encourage the gas emissions related to business • Become a carbon neutral development and diffusion activities (excl. production) company: Compensation for of environmentally friendly Company Carbon footprint technologies. • Calculated Product carbon footprint: 7,1 kg / 1,5 kg Big Bag • Product lifecycle optimization by developing recycling • Company Carbon footprint 2018: systems 207 t CO2e [Energy 32 %, Business travel 129 %, Commuting 29 %, • Evaluate and increase the Materials and waste 18 %] input of recycled materials in production processes • Introduction of CO2 neutral FIBC and implementation of CO2 compensation program with myclimate • Total CO2e compensation: 189 t • Support of climate protection project in Tanzania Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 36 Summary Anti-Corruption Activities & achievements Goals 2020 Related SDG Principle 10: Businesses should • Zero tolerance policy regarding • 100 % rate of employees 10 Reduced work against corruption in all its violation of corruption-, briberytrained in the prevention of inequalities forms, including extortion and and antitrust laws integrated corruption and bribery within bribery. in Supplier agreement, business activities 16 Peace, justice ans EFIBCA Code of Conduct, strong institutions Boxon Group CSR. Signature • Anti corruption training for and commitment required every new employee from business partners and employees • Employee trainings to prevent any form of corruption or bribery • No case of violation of these principles has ever been recorded within the company. Boxon GmbH Sustainability Report 2018 Imprint Sustainability Report & Communication on Progress 2018 published in March 2019. Editor Boxon GmbH Weyerhofstraße 68 Kontorhaus E1 47803 Krefeld Germany Tel: +49 421 989 89 0 E-Mail: infobulk.de@boxon.com Managing Director: Oliver Grüters Registered: Amtsgericht Kleve HRB 12415 VAT registration Number: DE 182523130 Contact Jasmin Westphal Marketing & Communication E-Mail: jasmin.westphal@boxon.com
