FY19 Sustainability Report Message from the CEO Landcom’s international recognition as fourth in the world and third across Asia Pacific in the 2018 and 2019 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Developer Assessment demonstrates the ongoing success of our commitment to sustainability. Through the adoption of our Sustainable Places Our University Round Table Power Plants collaborative Strategy into the business, we have effectively research project team were awarded the 2019 repositioned Landcom as a leader in delivering more Landscape Architecture Award for Research, Policy affordable and sustainable communities for the and Communications by the Australian Institute for people of NSW. Landscape Architecture. This is an experimental phytoremediation and land management research Our FY19 results show we are well on the way to experiment using plants to remediate post‑industrial achieving our goals. This year Landcom was again contamination, and exemplifies Landcom’s recognised as a global sustainability leader achieving commitment to innovation that has wide reaching and 4th place globally, and 3rd across Asia Pacific in tangible results for future development. the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB). Landcom is the first and only government I am proud of our ongoing commitment to deliver land organisation in the world to participate alongside affordable and sustainable communities. It is through publicly listed and private companies. these points of difference that we underpin our future financial success and enduring benefits for We also formalised our commitment to Human Rights the people of NSW. as a United Nations Global Compact Participant, prioritised core focus areas of human rights for our business, and adopted our Diversity & Inclusion Policy supported by a staff led working group. To drive market change for a low carbon economy we launched our first Sustainability Rebates to buyers at Macarthur Heights, supporting residents to reduce John Brogden AM their cost of living and environmental impacts. The CEO, Landcom NSW Minister for Energy & Environment honoured Landcom’s effort with a Sustainability Advantage 2019 Bronze recognition award. 2 FY19 Sustainability Report FY19 Sustainability Performance Highlights Overview Sustainable Places Strategy – Four Pillars Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Climate Resilient Places Healthy & Diversity & Awarded fourth Bronze Award Inclusion Policy most sustainable from Sustainability Inclusive Places adopted developer globally, Advantage in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Productive Places United Nations AILA Award for Skills Exchange Global Compact Phytoremediation employment Participant pathway program rolled out at Bonnyrigg and Accountable & Macarthur Heights Collaborative Places $15,000 Partnered with the Climate change Sustainability Property Council and community Appendices Rebate launched of Australia to resilience at Macarthur create the Supplier assessments and Heights to enable Engagement Platform planning program sustainable and aimed at combatting implemented affordable living Modern Slavery FY19 Sustainability Report 3 About This Report Our Sustainability Report 2019 is an account of Material Matters our sustainability performance during the FY19 reporting period, with limited assurance provided This report identifies and discloses the material by Point Advisory. aspects of our operations in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. We have This report includes discussion of our material also mapped our material issues and Strategy targets sustainability matters and details our performance to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. against our Sustainable Places Strategy. Where performance against a target has not been achieved Materiality is an important process that informs how (or is not in scope for the reporting period) an we do business. It provides insight into what our explanation is provided. stakeholders value from our developments, and their expectations of the way we operate our organisation. Our reporting boundaries are explained in the following section. Throughout this report, we disclose We use the Global Reporting Initiative’s GSSB our management approach to each of our Sustainable standard, as well as the AA1000 AccountAbility Places Strategy pillars of Climate Resilient Places, Principles Standard (2018) in our approach to Healthy & Inclusive Places, Productive Places and materiality. We apply GRI’s four-stage approach Accountable & Collaborative Places. to materiality and boundary guidance, and we execute this approach with reference to the quality This report is prepared in accordance with the Global assessment adherence criteria for the AA1000 Reporting Index Standards: Core option. Principle of Materiality. In FY19 we renewed our material matters which Reporting Requirements are identified below. As a result of this process The Landcom Corporation Act 2001 (NSW) requires several new material matters have become us to report on our sustainability performance each important to Landcom in this reporting period and year. The Act states we must adopt sustainability these are discussed within this report, including our performance indicators that are benchmarked against intention to adopt new management approaches in international best practice. FY20 where necessary. After extensive community and industry consultation our Sustainable Places Strategy was finalised and endorsed by the Landcom Board in November 2017, and took full effect for Landcom during FY18. 4 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Material issue What this means for Landcom Addressed within report Climate Change and Manage our physical and transition risks to climate Climate Resilient Places Resilience change across our communities and for our Accountable & Collaborative organisation. Places Low Carbon and To future proof our communities and business by Climate Resilient Places Renewable Energy adopting energy efficient and low carbon economy Climate principles, focused on reduced energy demand and increased renewable energy production. Resilient Places Human Rights To drive positive outcomes for our organisation, Healthy & Inclusive Places communities and stakeholders aligned to universal Accountable & Collaborative principles of human rights, emerging issues, diversity Places and inclusion. United Nations Global Compact – Report on Progress Healthy & Community To create positive, cohesive and resilient Climate Resilient Places Wellbeing and communities that enable connection, mental and Healthy & Inclusive Places Cohesion physical health, inclusion and safety. Diverse and To enable diverse and affordable housing outcomes Healthy & Inclusive Places Inclusive Places Accessible Housing that support the needs of our customers and reduce Climate Resilient Places and Communities the cost of living for members of our communities. Natural Capital To conserve and enhance our green and blue Climate Resilient Places Protection and infrastructure, preserve natural resources wherever Accountable & Collaborative Management possible, and actively seek to reduce our impact on Productive Places the natural environment. Stakeholder To collaborate, listen and involve stakeholders in Healthy & Inclusive Places Places and Community creating a shared vision that is valued by those who Engagement and interact in our communities. Satisfaction Accessibility, To design and deliver our communities so they are Accountable & Collaborative Transport and connected by active and public transport options, Places Movement and innovate to reduce private vehicle use. Accountable & Respecting To respect and acknowledge First Nations by Accountable & Collaborative Indigenous Culture considering the heritage and history of the land in Places and Heritage and around our developments, and collaborate with Collaborative Places indigenous communities for meaningful outcomes. Supply Chain To engage, partner and innovate with our supply Accountable & Collaborative Engagement chain for shared value outcomes. Places Local Economic To ensure local communities prosper and enable jobs, Productive Places Appendices Prosperity training, education and employment opportunities through our operations. FY19 Sustainability Report 5 About This Report continued Reporting Boundaries Our Sustainable Places Strategy applies to all new masterplan activity and projects during FY19. As a masterplan developer we use a variety of structures to deliver projects. The key types of project structures that we use are: • Owner/Master Developer • Project Delivery Agreement (PDA) • Reverse Project Delivery Agreement (RPDA) • Joint Ventures (JV). Because we use these different approaches Landcom has varying levels of influence over project outcomes. For example, with our Climate Resilient Places targets there is variability between what we can influence when acting as the Owner/Master Developer, compared to a Reverse Project Delivery Agreement where we are not the land owner and we may need to negotiate with other project partners before adopting environmental commitments for the project. Type of project Land ownership Delivery method Asset disposal structure Owner/Master We own the land We are responsible for We sell the land as vacant lots Developer masterplanning and approvals – residential, commercial or and undertaking all development industrial. works. Project We own the land We tender for a partner to The successful tenderer acts as Delivery project manage and undertake a ‘super contractor’ in return Agreement development works (there is a for payment from us on sale of (PDA) clear delineation of risks and individual lots to third parties. responsibilities between us and our partners). Reverse Project We do not own the We generally undertake the All revenue on sale is paid Delivery land (we develop planning, construction and/or to the land owner and we Agreement the land on behalf of sales activities. invoice the land owner for the (RPDA) another government reimbursement of costs and fees. agency or the private sector land owner) Joint Venture We sell the land to the We create a separate legal entity We, and the JV partner, (JV) JV for a cash payment that can pay invoices, pay and contribute equity into the JV receive GST and receive sales equally and receive a profit share revenue. equally (not revenue). 6 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview The table below summarises which projects are In some cases a project is in scope for Climate in scope to be reported on for FY19 and these Resilient Places targets, but not for Healthy & are mapped against each pillar of our Sustainable Inclusive Places. This is because our environmental Places Strategy. All projects are within the state of work tends to occur earlier in a project’s lifecycle, NSW, Australia. linked largely to construction phases, whereas social sustainability can occur through to completion. Table key Climate Refers to projects that are in scope to be reported against for one or more of the targets under the Resilient Places Sustainable Places Strategy. Refers to where projects are out of scope for all of the targets under a Strategy pillar. Refers to ‘legacy projects’. Legacy projects are those in our portfolio that were substantially delivered prior to the Sustainable Places Strategy being adopted, and are out of scope for reporting, but have been included as part of baseline figures in some indicators. Healthy & = Climate Resilient Places = Healthy & Inclusive Places = Productive Places = Accountable & Collaborative Places Inclusive Places Division Asset Project overview Corporate Operations Landcom maintains its head office tenancy at Parramatta. Construction Dwellings Construction of social housing on behalf of Land Productive Unit and public and Housing Corporation at various sites. buildings Places West Edmondson Owner/Master Developer. Approximately 4,000 Park new homes, with train station, town centre with retail, business and commercial space, 150ha regional park with cycleways, and two new schools. Thornton Originally a Department of Defence site. Landcom works are complete, and enabled Accountable & approximately 2,000 homes adjacent to Penrith train station. Mix of detached and attached dwellings, Affordable Housing and apartments. Origin of the 21st Century Terrace. Collaborative Places Riverstone Project is a RPDA consisting of approximately 1,600 residential lots that were subdivided in 1881, and are currently owned by over 320 landowner groups. Landcom is coordinating the delivery of the project on behalf of the land owners as the authority under the Appendices Environmental Planning and Assessment Act (Paper Subdivision) Regulation 2013. The project was in the planning stage through the reporting year with works commenced in FY19. Wentworth RPDA with Roads and Maritime Services to Point deliver public open space. FY19 Sustainability Report 7 Division Asset Project overview South West Macarthur RPDA with Western Sydney University, adjacent Heights to the Western Sydney University campus. Located within walking distance from Macarthur Train Station and Macarthur Square shopping centre, with over 950 residential lots. Includes 42ha of parklands plus sporting fields. Macarthur Owner/Master Developer. Adjacent to the Gardens North Macarthur Heights community, the project has a direct connection to Macarthur Train Station through Bow Bowing Creek. This site is in the planning phase. Renwick RPDA with Family and Community Services. Renwick is a 117ha masterplanned community, located about 2.5km north of Mittagong in the Southern Highlands. It has potential to yield around 600 residential lots, ranging in size from 300m2 ‘cottage lots’ to 4,000m2 ‘acre lots’. During the reporting period, the project completed civil works for the final stages of the development. Oran Park RPDA with Greenfields Development Company. Once complete the precinct will provide 6,500 homes, a town center, new schools, a smart work hub, retirement village and integrated primary care center. Airds RPDA with NSW Land and Housing Corporation. (Newbrook) Long term rejuvenation of the Airds Bradbury public housing area, transforming the existing 1,500 lot public housing estate into a masterplanned community of approximately 2,100 homes. Bonnyrigg RPDA with NSW Land and Housing (Newleaf) Corporation. Long term rejuvenation of the Airds Bradbury public housing area, transforming the existing 1,500 lot public housing estate into a masterplanned community of approximately 2,100 homes. Claymore RPDA with NSW Land and Housing Corporation (Hillcroft) to revitalize approximately 1,150 homes at Claymore public housing estate. When complete, Hillcroft will include new housing, parks, playgrounds and community facilities. 8 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Division Asset Project overview North West Lachlan’s Line1 Owner/Master Developer of an inner urban highdensity community adjacent to the North Ryde train station. Sydney Metro RPDA with Sydney Metro covering Tallawong, North West Kellyville, Bella Vista, Norwest, Showground, Places Castle Hill, Cherrybrook and Epping stations. Climate Each site is located along the metro line. While Sydney Metro delivers the infrastructure and new stations, Landcom will deliver the communities Resilient Places surrounding each station. Green Green Square PDA with Mirvac to provide high density, inner Square Town Centre urban living within the City of Sydney Local Government Area. Completed Spring Farm Completed masterplanned community. Projects The Ponds Completed masterplanned community. Healthy & Inclusive Places Productive Places Accountable & Collaborative Places Appendices 1 While Lachlan’s Line is a legacy project and has not undergone any masterplanning during the reporting year we are considering it inscope as we will be able to influence the sustainability outcomes in line with the new Sustainable Place Strategy through the development of the remaining stages. FY19 Sustainability Report 9 Climate Resilient Places Leadership Goal Objective To deliver low carbon, resource efficient and environmentally sensitive places. Goal To lead environmental performance across Landcom developments by committing to being carbon neutral and water positive, with zero waste and net positive ecological outcomes by 2028. Relevant Sustainable Development Goals 10 FY19 Sustainability Report Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Overview Landcom’s Climate Resilient Places Management Approach pillar is focused on a leadership goal Energy & Emissions and Water to ‘enable carbon neutral, water Every Landcom project is unique and requires a positive, zero waste and net positive bespoke approach to environmental sustainability. ecological outcomes by 2028’. We use the sustainability modelling tool PRECINX5 to identify opportunities for performance This leadership goal was developed to reflect improvement across our Energy & Emissions and Climate Landcom’s contribution towards the Paris Water targets. Agreement’s2 long-term goal of keeping the increase in global average temperature well below 2ºC, the Our approach to Energy & Emissions includes Resilient Places United Nations Sustainable Development Goals3, influencing the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) and reducing the impact of shocks and stresses emissions (stationary and transport) at a precinct to communities and infrastructure as identified scale across our communities and influencing the by Resilient Sydney4 (part of the Rockefeller onsite production of renewable energy. We approach Foundation 100 Resilient Cities Program), such as Water in a similar way, by looking at the reduction of extreme weather and water crises. potable water use across a precinct and identifying opportunities for recycling and reuse. Under this pillar Landcom focusses on environmental Healthy & sustainability and resilience. It encompasses We also set ourselves targets for maximum environmental management and the adoption stormwater discharge pollutant loads from our sites. of independent third-party rating tools and This minimises downstream water quality impacts Inclusive Places certifications, engaging with our supply chain, in the communities we develop. Urban stormwater supporting communities to reduce their operational modelling software such as MUSIC6 is used to costs of living, and developing our projects in a way measure pollutant loads across our projects. that reduce impacts on the environment. To see our FY19 performance for Energy & Environmentally sustainable communities are Emissions, see Energy & Emissions Performance balanced in meeting the needs of the natural Results (p. 18), and for Water see Water Performance Results (p. 25). Productive and urban environment. They take into account the needs of people today, and the needs of our Places future generations. Landcom believes that the built environment should incorporate green spaces and retain a connection to our natural habitats, for the benefit of the environment, and our communities. Landcom addresses environmental sustainability through the following focus areas: • Energy & Emissions Accountable & • Water • Environmental Management • Climate & Resilience Collaborative Places • Waste & Materials. Each of these focus areas includes a suite of targets to measure our success. 2 What is the Paris Agreement? (2018) https://unfccc.int/process-and-meetings/the-paris-agreement/what-is-the-paris-agreement Appendices 3 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (2018) https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ for our full alignment to the SDGs see Appendix B: Sustainable Development Goals Alignment 4 Resilient Sydney, Preliminary Resilience Assessment (2016) https://www.100resilientcities.org/cities/sydney/ 5 Landcom commissioned the development of PRECINX in 2009 as an accurate predictive modelling tool of greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption, transport outcomes and cost of living impacts of development in the built environment. Landcom now licenses the tool, as do many other developers, utilities, and local and state government organisations. 6 MUSIC Overview (2018) https://ewater.org.au/products/music/music-overview/ FY19 Sustainability Report 11 Environmental Management Climate & Resilience Landcom is committed to adopting independent Landcom’s approach to Climate & Resilience includes third-party rating tools and certifications or exceeding understanding our physical and transition risks regulatory requirements. We believe it is important to climate change and its impacts, ensuring our to have independent verification of our sustainability communities are adaptable to change, addressing performance. This is aligned to our targets for known risks such as urban heat island8, and Environmental Management. Our preferred rating maintaining our commitment to enhancing local tools are outlined below.7 biodiversity and ecology. Asset type Rating tool Rating tool During FY18 Landcom built its internal capacity for provider assessing asset exposure to physical climate change risks. This included adopting a risk assessment Communities Green Star Green Building framework, Resilience-In-Design checklist, prompting at the precinct Communities Council of Australia project teams to consider common climate risks scale during the early phases of a project’s design, and Buildings other Green Star Green Building completing community resilience plans9 designed to than residential Design & AsCouncil of Australia enhance the resilience of our communities in the way Built they live day to day. NABERS NSW Office of In FY19 we expanded our remit and sought to better Environment and understand our physical and transition risks to climate Heritage change. A gap analysis aligned with the Task Force on Residential BASIX NSW Department Climate Related Financial Disclosures and 2019 Global dwellings of Planning, Real Estate Sustainable Development Resilience Industry and Module was undertaken to determine Landcom’s Environment current level of preparedness for the transition risks of climate change, and how Landcom currently For our FY19 activities related to Environmental addresses physical risks at its assets. This included Management, see Environmental Management business wide stakeholder engagement and a review Performance Results (p. 21). of Landcom’s systems and processes. The results found that Landcom is comprehensively addressing the physical risks to assets, and there is opportunity to enhance our preparedness to transition risks. Closing this gap will be will be a focus in FY20 and will subsequently be embedded as part of our ongoing management approach. We are already taking steps to address known physical risks immediately, which includes reducing the effects of urban heat island across our new communities. As one of Sydney’s most significant climate related risks, early design interventions to address urban heat are required in the creation of new communities. Landcom has also been an ongoing partner of the Cooperative Research Centre for Low Carbon Living (CRCLCL)10 — and actively engaged in the development of its urban heat island mitigation decision support tool.11 7 In some instances Landcom may also agree to use other rating tools in lieu of, or in addition to, those outlined. This is at Landcom’s discretion. 8 Urban Heat Island Effect (2018) http://www.cityofsydney.nsw.gov.au/vision/towards-2030/sustainability/carbon-reduction/urban-heat-island 9 Eligible assets include those that have been assessed for climate change risks 10 The CRCLCL came the end of its funding period in 2019. 11 Urban Heat Island Mitigation Decision Support Tool (2018) http://www.lowcarbonlivingcrc.com.au/research/program-2-low-carbon-precincts/ rp2023-microclimate-and-urban-heat-island-mitigation 12 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Finally, Landcom seeks to address resilience in the Our Future Priorities natural environment. This is achieved when we maintain strong diversity of our ecological systems. Our Sustainable Places Strategy identifies a number We abide by legislative requirements including of initiatives as future opportunities to enhance our the Commonwealth Environmental Protection Environmental Management, Climate & Resilience, and Biodiversity Conservation Act, and the NSW and Waste & Materials focus areas. These include: Biodiversity Conservation Act when addressing • understanding Landcom’s role for improving air areas of biodiversity. When we purchase biodiversity quality within our communities Climate offsets for our development approvals, we use • determine the value of adopting a Landcom the NSW State Government BioBanking Scheme materials Red List which commits land owners to enhancing and Resilient Places protecting the biodiversity values of their land. • establishing how life cycle assessments may We use our Biodiversity Calculator to measure the improve our supply chain and reduce embodied quality and quantity of ecological communities carbon within our projects. beyond any legislative requirements, preand postIn FY19 we progressed investigations into how development. We aim for a net positive outcome at Landcom has positively influence air quality within the completion of our projects. the areas we operate. As part of our FY19 materiality For our FY19 performance against our Climate review, air quality also became material for Landcom Healthy & & Resilience targets, see Climate & Resilience as part of Natural Capital Protection & Management. Performance Results (p. 14). We are also supporting a research project at the Inclusive Places Centre for Smart Modern Construction to develop Waste & Materials methodologies for estimating embodied carbon Landcom’s environmental leadership goal for 2028 construction supply chains. We see a future for includes enabling zero waste communities. To do this tools such as this which will help us to track actual we are advocating for responsible use of resources, embodied carbon through the delivery of our and diversion from landfill. Landcom has long held a community infrastructure and civil works. waste diversion from landfill target, which has been In FY20 we will update our management approach maintained in our new Sustainable Places Strategy. Productive to capture and address air quality, and report on While we are focused on reducing waste within progress of this research. our own offices, it is construction waste that is Places material to Landcom’s operations. As part of our ongoing commitment to reduce waste and increase responsible materials use, Landcom continues to engage with our site superintendents and principal contractors to reduce, reuse or divert waste from landfill. We also include the responsible sourcing of timber Accountable & for all construction works within our approach. This increases engagement with our supply chain, and supports our work underway within our Collaborative Places Accountable & Collaborative Places pillar. For our FY19 performance results against our Waste & Materials targets, see Waste & Materials Performance Results (p. 24). Appendices FY19 Sustainability Report 13 Climate & Resilience Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Climate & Resilience. This focus area forms part of our Climate Resilient Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to delivering resilient communities that balance ecological outcomes, reduce climate related stresses and build community resilience. FY19 Targets and Performance The below table outlines our FY19 performance against our Climate & Resilience targets. Indicator Objective Target FY18 FY19 performance performance Climate & To respect, conserve All new projects to undertake a Climate 5 out of 9 7 out of 9 Resilience and regenerate Resilience Assessment. complete complete our natural environment and All new projects prepare and implement 2 out of 9 7 out of 9 embed adaptation an effective Climate Adaptation and complete complete and resilience into Community Resilience Plan. all precincts, and All new projects enhance the local habitat, 67% make 67% make expand community biodiversity or ecological communities, a positive a positive awareness. compared to the site conditions precontribution contribution acquisition or pre-masterplan (Landcom Biodiversity Calculator). Total project site area in plan view 100% of 100% of comprised of building or landscape projects in projects in elements that reduce the impact of urban scope scope heat island effect. Greenfield Projects: 50% project site area Renewal or High Density Projects: 20-50% project site area (calculation in accordance with Green Star Communities) Climate Change Risk and physical risks of climate change to the asset and communities. The Sydney Metro North West Community Resilience Places (SMNW) program precincts of Kellyville In FY19 Landcom continued to collaborate with and Bella Vista were new assessments during the consulting firm AECOM to enhance our current reporting period. project portfolio’s resilience to climate related risks, Extreme heat was rated as an ‘extreme risk’ at all and increase our internal capacity to ensure all future Landcom sites assessed, which is consistent with projects are resilient. the top risks to Sydney identified by Resilient Sydney.13 We complete climate change resilience assessments This finding confirms the importance of Landcom’s for priority and new projects. We use a consistent priority to reduce or mitigate the effects of urban pro forma to assess Landcom projects, which was heat island and build community resilience to heat developed in 2018 in line with Intergovernmental Panel at all new projects. on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report (IPCC For FY20 we have embedded the requirement for AR5) climate projections for 2030 and 2090.12 We climate change and community resilience assessment also use our Resilience-in-Design checklist to guide and planning to be undertaken by the successful informed decision making for projects during the proponents in the sale of Norwest (SMNW Places). concept design of a development. The Cherrybrook (SMNW Places) site planning will Seven of nine new projects, and all relevant legacy recommence in FY20, which will allow us to close out projects, now have climate risk assessments in the assessments and plans for our current new projects. alignment with the IPCC AR5 climate projections, and adaptation plans developed to reduce the 12 What is the IPPCC AR5 Assessment Report? https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar5/ 13 City of Sydney Resilient Sydney (2018) http://www.cityofsydney.nsw.gov.au/vision/towards-2030/resilient-sydney 14 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Urban Heat Island Reduction We acknowledge that land development and retention of biodiversity are sometimes at odds. Heat continues to be a major stress for many Despite our best efforts to retain existing flora and cities across Australia, as confirmed by our climate fauna at all our sites, sometimes this is not possible. change risk assessments. Landcom’s commitment However, we do aim to always have a net positive to reduce urban heat island effect (UHI) will outcome at our projects. Some methods we may contribute to reduced risk of extreme heat at our use include biodiversity offsets14, and restoration projects. This will enhance the resilience of our works such as improving eroded riparian corridors communities and the residents who live there. Climate to full health. Landcom had no new projects in scope for this For projects in scope for FY19 reporting target in FY19, however all new project sites are (SMNW Places15, Macarthur Gardens North and Resilient Places forecast to achieve our UHI targets. Edmondson Park), 67% are currently making a net positive biodiversity contribution. Once complete Biodiversity Kellyville, Bella Vista, Edmondson Park and FY19 is the second year Landcom will report the Macarthur Gardens North will all reduce the overall contribution we make to biodiversity and ecological area of onsite biodiversity from pre-development systems. To support the business in measuring this, to post-development, but return net positive in 2018 we developed our Biodiversity Calculator outcomes due to the preservation of significant Healthy & based on the Green Building Council of Australia’s habitat of good quality. At each of these projects change in ecological value calculator provided in native habitat offsets will be employed to manage Green Star tools. Inclusive Places the reduction in habitat area. Overall 23.75ha of biodiversity will be protected and restored by Landcom’s Biodiversity Calculator is designed National Parks, local councils or other entities to measure the change in quality and quantity aligned with legislative guidelines. of biodiversity at a given project site, from predevelopment to post development. The calculator The remaining sites assessed form part of the goes beyond just assessing high-value and significant SMNW Places program. Each of these sites is biodiversity (which legislation requires to be co-located with a metro station being delivered by Productive conserved) and factors a broader spectrum of Transport for NSW (TFNSW). TFNSW is also the biodiversity value into the assessment. Depending land owner of these projects, and Landcom has Places on the level of quality and quantity change, the been appointed as the master developer for the calculator determines whether a net positive or net surrounding communities. negative impact has been achieved. It is possible to Of the SMNW Places sites assessed, Kellyville and have a net positive outcome in biodiversity, despite a Bella Vista are forecast to contribute a very good reduction in physical area — if the quality of that area (net positive) change in biodiversity value, whereas has been significantly improved. Tallawong and Showground are forecast to have The scale provided by the calculator is as follows: a poor (net negative) change in biodiversity. As Landcom is not the land owner of the SMNW Places Accountable & Definition % change in biodiversity index of sites, management of biodiversity offsets and other site from preto post-development approvals is beyond our operational control, and is Poor <0 % undertaken by TFNSW. Landcom will continue to review opportunities to elevate the performance of Collaborative Places Moderate 0-10% SMNW Places sites through project divestment and Good 10-50% delivery strategies. Excellent >50% Appendices 14 Through schemes such as the NSW Office of Environment and Heritage Biodiversity Offset Scheme and BioBanking Trust. 15 Tallawong, Kellyville, Bella Vista and Showground FY19 Sustainability Report 15 Case Study: Urban Heat Mitigation Tool The Urban Heat Island Mitigation Decision Support and greenhouse gas emissions, stress on people tool (UHI-DS Tool) is a research project led by and morbidity rates, liveability through walkability the University of New South Wales through the and many other facets of what makes a community Cooperative Research Centre for Low Carbon Living sustainable. (CRCLCL). Landcom is involved in the collaborative During FY19 we completed testing the tool at Green research as a member of the project steering Square Town Centre and Macarthur Heights – two committee, and has also made our projects available very different geographic areas (inner Sydney as test beds for the practical application of the and greater Sydney) with distinct microclimates research. The research objectives are: and building types, and differing levels of natural • to provide governments and built environment environment surrounding the sites. The testing industries with a decision-support tool to included site scanning with the ‘Energy Bus’ and a inform urban policy, development assessment special drone fitted with sensors and cameras. and planning practices related to potential Results from the testing clearly show the dramatic building and urban interventions, used to benefits of using reflective surfaces and exposing cool streetscapes and cities, decrease energy foliage such as grass and trees. At Macarthur consumption, protect the population’s Heights the difference in roof surface temperature vulnerable health-wise, and improve between a light grey and white roof is almost 10°C. conditions of comfort The surface temperature of darker roofs at the • to integrate scientific models with a range of hottest part of the day can be up to double the mitigation techniques to perform urban heat temperature of a white roof, as can be seen in the island mitigation analysis across both building bottom images of Figure 1. and urban scales, such as building coatings and roofs, urban form and density, greenery With a model that can predict the surface and air and infrastructure temperatures, Landcom will be able to reflect any environmental improvements realised through • to develop an Urban Heat Island Mitigation direct design interventions within the PRECINX Performance Index to support governments models established for our projects. This means we in establishing performance targets for their could predict the reductions in energy usage (and planning control. The Index will indicate impact GHG emissions) and cost of living improvements on street level temperature, health and mortality associated with energy use, and plan for improved and precinct level energy consumption.16 walkability by knowing where the ‘cool routes’ are The output from the project is critical to Landcom within a community. as it has provided a tool enabling us to model and The UHI-DS Tool research project came to a predict the urban heat impacts in our masterplans conclusion in FY19. Moving forward we will also and adapt designs to minimise the impacts. Urban review opportunities to incorporate the UHI-DS Tool heat is a key driver of climate and community in our suite of sustainable masterplanning tools. resilience through its effect on energy efficiency Figure 1 Results showing temperature gradient between Figure 2 Surface temperature of Green Square Town Centre, different surface types at Macarthur Heights. data collected by drone and stitched together to create a full map. 16 RP2023: Microclimate and Urban Heat Island Mitigation Decision-Support Tool (2018) http://www.lowcarbonlivingcrc.com.au/research/ program-2-low-carbon-precincts/rp2023-microclimate-and-urban-heat-island-mitigation 16 FY19 Sustainability Report Case Study: Cooling the Commons Overview The effects of urban heat island can adversely The research focused on the common urban affect liveability, community health and spaces, such as plazas, walking paths or parks. wellbeing. As an extension to our collaboration It sought to establish how open space can be on the UHI-DS Tool, we have continued to planned so that urban communities can feel explore ways to improve the liveability of heat comfortable when the city is hot. It also reviewed impacted communities through research into how uncomfortable heat can impact our use of cooling common spaces in densifying urban these common spaces. environments. The project is called ‘Cooling The research found that the relationship between the Commons’. the built and natural environment significantly This research was part of Landcom’s Roundtable, impacts our use of common urban spaces. For Climate and is a collaboration between Western Sydney example, wide shaded walk-ways furnished University, the University of Technology Sydney with seating and water stations that connect and Landcom. It analysed international examples residential areas to public transport networks Resilient Places of urban cooling interventions such as design and or shops positively impact social cohesion. planning patterns, and the post-occupancy lived The practical output from the research is experiences of these places. recommended as a pattern book or similar that can be used by planners, developers, community liaison officers, council workers and the communities they serve to assist Healthy & decision-making. Inclusive Places Productive Places Accountable & Collaborative Places The Drying Green at Green Square. Appendices FY19 Sustainability Report 17 Energy & Emissions Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Energy & Emissions. This focus area forms part of our Climate Resilient Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to delivering energy efficient communities that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, advance uptake in renewable energy technologies, and reduce the cost of living to residents. FY19 Targets and Performance Indicator Objective Target FY18 FY19 performance performance Energy & To conserve energy All new projects modelled to reduce Delivered: NA Delivered: NA Emissions and drive energy greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at a Forecast: Forecast: efficient, low carbon, precinct scale (transport & stationary) 46% portfolio 40% portfolio low emissions by 50% against 2016 reference case weighted weighted precincts for the (CCAP PRECINX). reduction reduction future. 5% of predicted precinct energy demand Delivered: NA Delivered: NA supplied from onsite renewable energy, Forecast: 100% Forecast: 100% where site constraints permit. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Our emissions reduction target seeks to minimise density projects have greater limitations for emissions stationary and transport emissions through the reductions, driving a 6% shift in our performance adoption of energy efficient design, renewable energy between FY18 and FY19. infrastructure, transport mode split and parking New higher density projects present Landcom with strategies, and uses incentives to encourage efficient the greatest challenge to meet our targets, due to building systems and appliances. The emissions the reduced site area and roof space available to reported are the predicted operational emissions of incorporate renewable energy technologies in a cost a master plan at completion and are calculated using effective way. This is apparent in the responses we the sustainability modelling tool PRECINX and a NSW have been receiving to the expressions of interest metro average baseline of 2016. The global warming for the sites we have gone to market with during the potential account factors align to the National reporting period. Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Act. During the reporting period no new projects were sold Contribution of each portfolio to with agreed contracts of sale to the private sector, total predicted emissions therefore we continue to report the projected reductions for our portfolio. For completeness, we are also reporting the achievements of legacy projects underway before the adoption of the Sustainable Places Strategy. New projects, or individual precincts within ongoing projects currently in the planning and design stages 26% 74% are in scope for FY19 reporting17 and now account for almost three quarters of Landcom’s overall predicted emissions (see Figure 3). New projects reported include SMNW Places (Tallawong, Showground, Kellyville precincts), Edmondson Park and Lachlan’s Line. The weighted average GHG emission reductions New projects Legacy projects expected across the new projects in scope for FY19 is 40% (see Figure 4).18 During the reporting period Figure 3 Contribution of each project portfolio to our total new precincts included in our emissions reductions predicted emissions, showing that the quantum of emissions from our new project portfolio is more material than our calculations were predominantly high density. High legacy projects due to the proportional size of each portfolio. 17 Performance is based on projected performance for all new Landcom projects, until such time as the delivery or divestment strategy for each project is confirmed. At this time, results will become ‘actuals’. 18 Reduction from the reference case. Landcom chooses to use its PRECINX tool for modelling potable water and GHG emission reductions. 2016 reference case is defined as the normalised relevant metropolitan average applied to a masterplan. 18 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Landcom is committed to pushing for greater GHG Predicted community GHG emission reductions in these sites, however as we do not reductions against have operational control over the specification of 2016 Sydney Metro average the final built form we anticipate a potential for further tempered results in projects divested to 2019 third party land owners. 0% For fully Landcom-owned projects that will join our -17% development pipeline, we will seek to exceed the Climate -10% GHG reduction targets to regain the on-balance -20% -40% portfolio performance for this target. Resilient Places -30% In FY19 residential dwellings continued to be our most material emissions source (see Figure 5) and -40% are forecast to achieve a 42% reduction across new projects, while transport emissions are the second -50% most material with a predicted reduction of 44%. -60% Non-residential land uses are expected to achieve an 18% reduction, which is a 10% improvement over the Healthy & -70% FY18 forecast. However this only accounts for 15% of -80% overall emissions across our new project portfolio. In FY20 we will continue to focus on opportunities to Inclusive Places -90% further reduce residential and transport emissions. -100% While our emissions target is designed to address Legacy Projects Target new projects, in FY19 we sought to make a meaningful impact at projects that have already New Project 2028 Leadership Commitments Goal moved through the planning and design phase. We launched Landcom’s first Sustainability Rebate at Productive Macarthur Heights in April 2019. This is an incentive Figure 4 Predicted GHG emissions reductions from for residents building a new home. It is designed Places Landcom project portfolio, against FY16 baseline, modelled to be a market-based lever to lower emissions and using PRECINX. Results show our ‘new’ projects which are improve the cost of living in established communities, in scope for reporting during FY19, and for completeness while driving sales at this point in the market cycle our ‘legacy’ projects, which are out of scope for reporting. (see our Sustainability Rebate Case Study on p. 20). Predicted forecast emissions from each source at new projects Accountable & 50,000 Collaborative Places 40,000 t CO2-e nominal/year 30,000 20,000 Appendices 10,000 0 Residential Non-Residential Transport Reference Case (2016 Metro Average) New Project Commitments Figure 5 Prediction GHG emissions by source for new projects, compared to the FY16 reference case. FY19 Sustainability Report 19 Onsite Renewable Energy Landcom’s onsite renewable energy target is for 5% of total site demand at the precinct scale to In FY19 Landcom had no projects in scope for be delivered by onsite renewable energy. This reporting the inclusion of onsite renewable energy. extends beyond the inclusion of solar panels on This is due to no new projects having been acquired residential homes, and requires a strategic precinct for delivery by Landcom, or sold with agreed scale response. The intent of this target is to drive contracts of sale to the private sector during the innovation and large scale integration of renewable reporting year. energy sources at the project site. Case Study: Sustainability Rebate Toward the end of FY19 Landcom launched its first To claim the rebate buyers must present their Sustainability Rebate to home buyers at Macarthur BASIX Certificate to Landcom showing they Heights. This is a new incentive to encourage have met or exceeded the minimum score set by greater sustainability and resilience of new homes in Landcom. BASIX Certificates are required by the Landcom communities. Department of Planning, Industry and Environment and form part of existing development consent The Sustainability Rebate supplements Landcom’s and occupancy certification requirements at the existing Landscaping and Fencing Rebate, and completion of a home build, so there is minimal offers a $15,000 incentive to buyers who build their cost impost for our customers to claim the rebate. homes to meet or exceed Landcom’s standards, for Through this process, we are one step closer to our example our BASIX targets. net-zero carbon leadership goal, encouraging low Our Sustainability Rebate was developed in carbon homes. collaboration with the Landcom Sales and The Sustainability Rebate collateral can be Marketing Team. Sales and Marketing undertook downloaded from the Landcom website at a review of the residential market to determine https://www.landcom.com.au/assets/Downloads/ the best financial rebate value sufficient to attract macarthur-heights-/72c8300054/macarthurinterest and drive sales leads. The Sustainability heights-sustainability-rebate-flyer.pdf Team then worked within the prescribed rebate value to reverse-engineer what type of home interventions would yield the greatest return on investment — both for the home owner, and to accelerate Landcom’s performance against our Energy & Emissions and Environmental Management targets. Inclusions that will contribute to a residential home meeting Landcom’s BASIX targets include: • LED lighting upgrades • ceiling fans • solar panels • upgraded insulation and low-E glazing. In developing the rebate, a key consideration was to ensure it was beneficial to new owner occupiers and renters that may choose to live in a new home within a Landcom community. Enhancing the quality A home in Macarthur Heights. and efficiency of a home improves its overall value — benefiting owner occupiers and investors. As the rebate also enables operational cost savings for the life of the home, it ensures renters derive value too. 20 FY19 Sustainability Report Environmental Management Performance Results Overview Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Environmental Management. This focus area forms part of our Climate Resilient Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to deliver communities that achieve or exceed independent third party rating systems or standards. FY19 Targets and Performance Our FY19 performance results are presented below. None of our Environmental Management targets were in scope for reporting this year as no new projects were commenced or delivered to market during the reporting period. Climate Indicator Objective Target FY18 performance FY19 performance Resilient Places Environmental To maintain All projects will adopt the use Out of scope — no Out of scope Management and enhance a industry recognised rating projects at stage of (Legacy project culture of high tools at a masterplan and built delivering Green Star Green Square environmental form scale, achieving not less rating. awarded 6 Star performance. than ‘Australian Best Practice’ Green Star equivalent (Green Star Communities preferred). rating). Healthy & NABERS: Office, Hotel & Retail Out of scope — no Out of scope. – Commitment Agreement or projects delivering designed-to 5 Star Energy and commercial or retail Inclusive Places Water. assets. BASIX energy: Detached & Out of scope — no Out of scope — Semi 60; Low-Rise 55; Midcertificates approved no certificates Rise 45; High-Rise – 40 with dwellings approved completed in the with dwellings BASIX water: all dwellings 60 reporting period. completed in the reporting period. Productive Green Star Certification Green Star, administered by the Green Building Landcom is committed to requiring a NABERS Places Council of Australia, is Landcom’s preferred rating at new projects that include office, retail independent and voluntary rating tool for precincts or hotel built form. A NABERS rating can only be and built form. Landcom is committed to achieving ensured at Landcom projects through collaboration ‘Australian Best Practice, 5 Star Green Star’ project with future building owners and operators through certifications for all new projects.19 conditional requirements within contracts of sale to future site owners. In FY19 Green Square Town Centre was awarded Accountable & a 6 Star Green Star Communities rating in As Landcom had no new projects released to market 2019. Attainment of this rating was achieved and sold within the reporting period, this target is collaboratively between Landcom, City of Sydney not in scope for FY19. and Mirvac. Collaborative Places Aligning with the NSW Government Resource NABERS Certification Efficiency Policy (see NSW Government Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP), p. 52), Landcom Landcom adopts the National Australian Built maintains a NABERS rating for our head office Environment Rating System (NABERS)20 as its tenancy in Parramatta. In FY19 we achieved a preferred independent and voluntary rating system to 6 Star NABERS Energy Rating representing a validate the operational sustainability of eligible non‘Market Leading’ performance. Appendices residential built form. NABERS measures a building’s operational energy efficiency, carbon emissions, water consumption and waste production on an annual basis, and awards a star rating out of six. 19 In some instances, Landcom may seek to use, or require the use of, the Green Star Design & As-Built rating tool. 20 What is NABERS? (2018) https://www.nabers.gov.au/about/what-nabers FY19 Sustainability Report 21 BASIX Certification BASIX targets are calculated as a percentage of We measure the energy and water efficiency of homes savings against the NSW average benchmarks built by Landcom in accordance with the Environment (being the average per-person water consumption and Planning Assessment Act Building Sustainability and greenhouse gas emissions levels across Index (BASIX).21 BASIX is administered by the the state). These percentage savings are then Department of Planning, Industry and Environment expressed as a target, i.e. BASIX 50 represents a (DPIE), applies to residential developments, and aims 50% saving against the benchmark. BASIX assesses to deliver equitable, effective water and greenhouse a proposed dwelling based on these benchmarks, gas emission reductions across NSW. and taking into account regional variations such as soil type, climate, rainfall and evaporation rates.22 BASIX Reg. Old Landcom BASIX Reg. New Landcom Dwelling Type pre July 17 BASIX targets post July 17 BASIX targets Energy Detached & semi-detached 40 55 50 60 Low rise (3 storey units) 35 No Target 45 55 Mid-rise (4-5 storey units) 30 No Target 35 45 High rise (6+ storey units) 20 No Target 25 40 Water All typologies 40 40 40 60 BASIX certificates are generated in accordance with In FY19 Landcom had no new projects issued the design of a new residential development, based on with BASIX certificates since the adoption of the the specifications of that building. A BASIX certificate Sustainable Places Strategy. must accompany any development application or For completeness we are disclosing the performance complying development application before approval of delivered dwellings within the reporting year. These for that building is provided. Once construction is dwellings are not subject to Landcom’s targets, as complete a BASIX completion receipt is issued, if an they were designed and issued with BASIX certificates independent certifier confirms the home has been built before the adoption of our Sustainable Places Strategy. in accordance with the BASIX specifications. Landcom uses the BASIX completion receipt to validate the percentage of homes within our portfolio designed and delivered in accordance with our targets. Average BASIX Water score for legacy projects 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 FY18 FY19 Detached and semi-detached Low-rise Mid-rise High-rise Overall Figure 6 Trend for BASIX Water, including legacy projects, showing consistent results year on year. 21 What is BASIX? https://www.planningportal.nsw.gov.au/planning-tools/basix 22 https://www.basix.nsw.gov.au/iframe/basix-help-notes/190-target-review/481-what-are-basix-points.html 22 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Average BASIX Energy performance for legacy projects 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 Climate 20 Resilient Places 10 0 FY18 FY19 Detached and semi-detached Low-rise Mid-rise High-rise Overall Figure 7 BASIX Energy scores of legacy projects, showing year-on-year variation in detached dwelling scores. FY18 performance is higher due to high BASIX performance of Group Homes constructed during that reporting period. Healthy & A total of 52 single-dwelling, 12 multi-dwellings Inclusive Places and 30 units in residential flat buildings completed construction in FY19, yielding a combined weighted Case Study: Green Square average23 BASIX energy score of 43, and water Town Centre, Green Star score of 40. Communities Collaboration The multi-dwelling and residential flats were all In FY19 Green Square Town Centre subject to Integrated Development Assessment (GSTC) was awarded a 6 Star Green Star (IDA) pathway approvals. Where an IDA is sought Productive Communities rating, representing ‘World the masterplan and all dwellings are approved under Leadership’ excellence in sustainable the one development application. As part of the Places development. This achievement was in IDA process consolidated BASIX certificates were collaboration with our development partner issued per project (or project stage), which averages Mirvac and the City of Sydney. the BASIX performance across all dwellings and typologies. Multi-dwelling BASIX requirements are The Green Star Communities rating sought for lower than those for single-dwellings. Therefore, the this project is considered ground-breaking in combined average BASIX certificate is not reflective industry due to the unprecedented number of of the different standards between typologies. Thus, stakeholders that enabled a Green Star rating results can be positively or negatively weighted, for GSTC, and the collaboration between them. Accountable & depending on the make-up of that community. City of Sydney, as the certification applicant, coordinated the rating with the input of all developers in Green Square Town Centre — Collaborative Places including Landcom. Appendices Artist impression of the Green Square 23 Weighted by occupancy. Town Centre. FY19 Sustainability Report 23 Waste & Materials Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Waste and Materials. This focus area forms part of our Climate Resilient Places pillar, and is a representation of our commitment to delivering communities that reduce waste, and source materials responsibly. These focus areas contribute to our leadership goal to enable zero waste communities by 2028. FY19 Targets and Performance The below table outlines our FY19 performance against our Waste & Materials Targets. Indicator Objective Target FY18 FY19 performance performance Waste & To drive innovation All new projects divert minimum No New Projects No new projects Materials in waste reduction, 95% construction waste from in scope in scope and further landfill (excluding contamination (Legacy Projects (Legacy Project enable the use or hazardous materials). achieved 92%) achieved 93%) of responsible resources. 100% timber sourced for No New Projects No New Projects construction (by cost) is Forest in scope in Scope Stewardship Council Certified or agreed equivalent (ie Australian Forestry Standards). Waste Breakdown of waste streams Landcom continues to place a high value on diverted from landfill transparently reporting our impact on local environments. We are advancing our approach to focus on how we can achieve net positive environmental 6% outcomes, including zero waste communities. 5% 25% In calculating our waste diversion from landfill target 4% we exclude hazardous waste and contamination volumes from the figures to align more closely with the standards set out in the Green Star rating tools. In FY19 Landcom had no new projects within scope 59% for reporting against our waste diversion target. Existing Landcom projects that generated waste in FY19 reported a 93% diversion from landfill. The majority of waste was generated at Edmondson Fill Brick and roof tiles Concrete Park, Lachlan’s Line and Macarthur Heights, with fill (soil) and concrete being the most significant Asphalt Vegetation Timber (0%) recycled materials. As these projects are operating under contracts that pre-date the adoption of our Figure 8 Breakdown of waste streams diverted Sustainable Places Strategy, they are technically out of from landfill in FY19. scope, however we are disclosing their waste diversion attainment in FY19 for completeness. Materials Consistent and accurate waste reporting remains a challenge across the development industry. In FY19 we In FY19 there were no projects in scope for reporting commenced the process of moving our data collection against our target for 100% Chain-of-Custody for waste from a manual ‘paper based’ workflow, to an Certified timber, as no new projects were sold during online portal. We will continue to deliver this new in the reporting year. initiative in FY20 to improve consistency and accuracy Landcom expects to report our performance against in reporting. this target in FY20. 24 FY19 Sustainability Report Water Performance Results Overview Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Water. This focus area forms part of our Climate Resilient Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to delivering communities designed for best practice water sensitive urban design which actively conserve potable water. These focus areas contribute to our leadership goal to enable water positive communities by 2028. FY19 Targets and Performance The below table outlines our FY19 performance against our Water Targets. Indicator Objective Target FY18 FY19 Climate performance performance Resilient Places Water To design our Water Sensitive Urban Design strategy No new 100% in scope precincts based for all projects, pollutant discharge projects in projects on best practice loads not to exceed Nitrogen 45, scope achieved water sensitive Phosphorus 65, Suspended Solids 85, urban design Gross Pollutants 90. principles, and All new projects modelled to reduce 49% weighted 50% weighted actively conserve mains potable water demand by 50% portfolio portfolio potable water. Healthy & at the precinct scale, against a 2016 reduction reduction reference case (CCAP Precinx). Water Sensitive Urban Design Inclusive Places Landcom views Water Sensitive Urban Design is the predicted operational consumption of a (WSUD) as integral to the sustainable water community at completion and is calculated using the cycle management of our projects. WSUD can sustainability modelling tool PRECINX. include the rehabilitation and protection of natural New projects, and individual precincts within waterways, design elements such as wetlands, ongoing projects currently in the planning and rain gardens, water harvesting and storage and design stages, are in scope for FY19 reporting.24 Productive efficient fittings, and alterative water sources such These projects account for 76% of Landcom’s as recycled or blackwater. predicted overall consumption (see Figure 9) Places In FY19 SMNW Places was in scope for reporting and include SMNW Places (Tallawong, Kellyville, against our WSUD target, including the Tallawong, Showground), Edmondson Park and Lachlan’s Line. Kellyville and Showground precincts. MUSIC Our weighted average potable water consumption modelling was undertaken for Tallawong as part reduction projected across new projects in scope of the planning approval process, which showed for FY19 is 50%25 (see Figure 11), which is in line all stormwater pollution categories met Landcom with FY18. The typical strategies used to achieve Accountable & targets. Both gross pollutants and suspended solids the target is to maximize the water harvesting, reductions exceeded our targets (SS87, P65, N45, and adopt higher efficiency appliances and fittings GP100). Kellyville and Showground have been in built form. through Expression of Interest processes during the In FY19 the residential component of our new Collaborative Places reporting period, with all proponent submissions project portfolio is forecast to achieve 51% potable received accepting Landcom’s prescribed WSUD water reduction (consistent with FY18 forecasts), targets, and are therefore forecast to meet the target. and non-residential water reductions are 23%. Despite this, non-residential land uses for new Potable Water Reduction projects account for only 4% of overall potable water Our potable water reduction target seeks to use which means our focus remains on implementing Appendices reduce the use of unnecessary potable water and results in the residential sector. improve the efficiency of potable water that is used. The potable water consumption reported 24 Performance is based on projected performance for all new Landcom projects, until such time as the delivery or divestment strategy for each project is confirmed. At this time, results will become ‘actuals’. 25 Reduction from the reference case. Landcom chooses to use its PRECINX tool for modelling potable water and Greenhouse Gas emission reductions. The reference case is defined as the normalised relevant 2016 metropolitan average applied to a masterplan. FY19 Sustainability Report 25 Total predicted potable New projects without access to recycled water water consumption present Landcom with the greatest challenge to meet our targets. Without access to recycled water infrastructure, potable water reductions greater than 50% at the precinct scale become technically challenging, and infrastructure such as private grey 24% 76% and blackwater treatment systems can ultimately have a negative impact on cost of living for residents. Despite the challenges this presents there are also opportunities for innovative design, partnership and technology solutions. For completeness we have also presented the potable water reductions achieved by our legacy projects that are still in delivery (see Figure 11). These projects include Bonnyrigg, Claymore, Airds, New projects Reference Case Predicted Consumption (2016 Metro Average) Macarthur Heights and Renwick.26 When calculating our performance inclusive of new and legacy projects, Figure 9 Comparison of legacy vs. new project predicted Landcom’s weighted portfolio achieves 47% average potable water consumption. Landcom’s new project potable water reduction. portfolio has a more material consumption, compared to legacy projects. New project potable water consumption Predicted community potable water reductions compared to the benchmarks against 2016 Sydney Metro average 2019 2500 0% -10% 2000 -37% -20% -50% -30% 1500 -40% -50% 1000 -60% -70% 500 -80% 0 -90% Residential Non-Residential -100% Reference Case New Projects Legacy Projects (2016 Metro Average) Predicted Consumption Target Current Project 2028 Leadership Commitments Goal Figure 10 Predicted potable water use in committed new Figure 11 Potable water consumption reduction of Landcom’s projects compared to the 2016 Sydney metro average project portfolio, modelled using PRECINX. Results show our benchmarks for each land use type. ‘new’ projects which are in scope for reporting during FY19, and for completeness our ‘legacy’ projects, which are out of scope for reporting. 26 The stages of legacy projects include those which are still in delivery. This is Bonnyrigg Stages 6 and 7, Claymore Stages 3 to 6, Airds Stage 6, Macarthur Heights Stages 4 and 5, and Renwick Stages 400, 500 and 700. Landcom was awarded the contract to deliver additional stages at Bonnyrigg and these stages did not present any opportunities during the reporting year to enhance the sustainability of the overall project, which has reduced the legacy project portfolio’s performance compared to FY18. 26 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Healthy & Climate Resilient Places Inclusive Places Healthy & Leadership Goal Inclusive Places Objective To deliver healthy and inclusive places founded on equity for people of all ages and abilities. Productive Places Goal To enhance Landcom’s international status for delivering world class liveable places founded on equity, affordability and inclusion. Residents report overall 90% satisfaction with quality of life. Accountable & Relevant Sustainable Collaborative Places Development Goals Appendices FY19 Sustainability Report 27 Healthy & Inclusive Places Pillar Overview Landcom’s Healthy & Inclusive Places Management Approach pillar is focused on a leadership goal to ‘enhance Landcom’s international status Health, Equity & Inclusion, Community for delivering world class liveable places, Connection, and Safety founded on equity, affordability and Landcom adopts a holistic approach to the delivery of healthy and inclusive places founded on equity for inclusion by 2036’. people of all ages and abilities. This leadership goal was developed to reflect our For new projects we undertake social needs commitment to meaningfully contribute to the United assessments to understand what amenities, services Nations Sustainable Development Goals27, and reduce or programs are currently available to the immediate the impact of shocks and stresses to communities and and surrounding community, and what gaps may infrastructure, such as social cohesion and affordable need to be filled. We use this information to inform housing as identified by Resilient Sydney28 (part of the our future planning for infrastructure and community Rockefeller Foundation 100 Resilient Cities Program). development programming. Within this pillar Landcom focusses on how well a As residents begin to live onsite we commence a place delivers quality of life to its communities and continuous feedback loop via our Healthy & Inclusive the resilience of those communities. It encompasses Places survey (HIPs). This is an engagement tool economic prosperity and affordability, social stability used to gather data from residents of Landcom and equity, accessibility, education, health and communities measuring satisfaction across wellbeing, and integration of culture and heritage. dimensions such as design, community connection, Liveable communities are healthy and inclusive. A safety, wellbeing, housing affordability and diversity well-designed community takes into account the based on the residents’ lived experience. We needs of people today, and the needs of our future have adopted performance targets across these generations. We consider where people will work, dimensions, striving for continuous improvement to learn, spend their leisure time and how they move meet the quality of life expectations of current and from place to place. Landcom also believes that the future residents. built environment should incorporate green spaces To benchmark Landcom’s results against industry and retain a connection to our natural habitats for the standards the survey also aligns to the Personal benefit of the environment and our communities. Wellbeing Index (PWI).29 The PWI is designed to Landcom addresses liveability through the following measure satisfaction with quality of life across seven focus areas: domains: standard of living, health, life achievement, relationships, safety, community-connectedness and • Health, Equity & Inclusion future security. Landcom uses resident satisfaction • Community Connection across the core elements of the PWI30 to measure • Housing Affordability and Diversity success against our leadership goal to ‘enhance • Safety & Wellbeing Landcom’s international status for delivering world class liveable places, founded on equity, affordability • Design through Engagement. and inclusion by 2036’. Each of these focus areas includes a suite of targets to measure our success. 27 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (2018) https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ to see our full alignment to the SDGs see Appendix B: Sustainable Development Goals Alignment 28 Resilient Sydney (2018) https://www.100resilientcities.org/cities/sydney/ 29 International Wellbeing Group (2013). Personal Wellbeing Index: 5th Edition. Melbourne: Australian Centre on Quality of Life, Deakin University http://www.acqol.com.au/instruments#measures 30 Our management approach has been refined in FY20 to reflect resident satisfaction against the PWI core elements, rather than reporting the PWI score itself, which does not in fact represent satisfaction as our goal is stated. This adjustment in approach best reflects the intention of Landcom’s long term goal. Performance results for FY18 have been restated where required in line with our refined approach. 28 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview We use the results and resident feedback from We also address housing diversity and accessibility in the HIPs survey each year to drive performance response to Sydney’s current market conditions. We improvements in the way we deliver our projects. aim to deliver a range of tenure options for owners This can include adjusting our approach to the and renters, improve the range of home options design and delivery of future stages of a project available in the market especially for first home or influencing the way we deliver community buyers, and ensure people have the ability to access development programs and services. fit for purpose housing throughout their lifetime. Based on the low FY18 performance results against We complement this by advocating for and requiring Climate our Community Connection targets we committed homes that embody Universal Design principles and to undertake an evaluation of our Community are Livable Housing Australia (LHA) certified. Development and Welcome Program to determine Resilient Places For our FY19 performance against our Affordability past successes and areas of opportunity. The & Diversity targets, see Affordability & Diversity assessment found Landcom would benefit from Performance Results (p. 34). an overarching framework to guide the way we approach and deliver community development. Design through Engagement A shift to impact reporting would also support consistent evaluation of success and ability to We maintain a commitment to excellence in design communicate value creation. We are framing and meaningful stakeholder participation from Healthy & recommendations throughout FY20 and will adjust all those who have a stake in the evolution of our our management approach in our next reporting cities, including the people in the communities that know them best. Inclusive Places period. For our FY19 performance results measured by In FY19 Landcom established its Design Review our Healthy & Inclusive Places survey, see Health, Panel (DRP). The DRP provides advice to Landcom Equity & Inclusion, Community Connection, & on strategies to achieve design excellence and Safety (p. 31). quality of urban design outcomes across our project portfolio. The DRP is comprised of industry experts with experience across design and environmental Housing Affordability & Diversity consultancies, government entities and the Landcom’s Housing Diversity & Affordability Policy development sector. The objectives of the DRP are Productive was adopted in 2018 to drive the delivery of diverse, to support Landcom project teams with a critical affordable and accessible homes. The Policy is a design review process, and provide access to Places clear reflection of Landcom’s commitment to create industry experts for guidance and support. more affordable and sustainable communities. As part of our management approach all projects Landcom defines Affordable Housing as are required to present to the DRP at least once dwellings managed or owned by a Community per year, as they progress through the masterplan Housing Provider (CHP). CHPs are not-for-profit and design stages. In addition, active projects that organisations that build and/or manage housing make significant reviews to future stages must also Accountable & for eligible people on very low, low and moderate present to the DRP. Landcom’s aim is that this robust incomes or who are unable to access appropriate process will ensure enhanced design outcomes for housing in the private market. the communities we deliver. Collaborative Places Landcom’s Housing Affordability & Diversity Policy Landcom’s Join In Framework guides our approach requires 5-10% of housing in our projects to be to stakeholder engagement. The framework provided as Affordable Rental Housing, owned or aligns with the International Association for management by a CHP. The CHP may build the Public Participation (IAP2) principles. IAP2 ‘seeks homes, and will manage eligibility and waiting lists, to promote and improve the practice of public tenants’ services and property maintenance. participation or community and stakeholder engagement, incorporating individuals, Appendices governments, institutions and other entities that affect the public interest throughout the world’.31 31 International Association for Public Participation Australasia (2018) https://www.iap2.org.au/Home FY19 Sustainability Report 29 Engagement principles Our approach to engaging stakeholders is underpinned by the following principles, which are widely accepted and promoted by engagement advocates in Australia and around the world. We recognise that there’s some overlap of ideas related to each principle and that’s okay because the principles are interdependent. Collaborative Purposeful Proactive Accountable Inclusive Working with Planning and resourcing Engaging stakeholders Being clear about Engaging stakeholders stakeholders with an engagement to support early and throughout the purpose of with different needs interest in delivering project delivery project planning and engagement, level of and interests positive project delivery and making influence and how the outcomes it easy for them to influence has shaped participate recommendations and decisions For our FY19 performance against our Design through Engagement targets, see Design through Engagement Performance Results (p. 36). Our Future Priorities Our Sustainable Places Strategy identifies a number As part of our FY19 materiality review, diversity, of initiatives as future opportunities to enhance our inclusion, health and wellbeing became material Health, Equity & Inclusion and Community Connection matters for Landcom as part of Human Rights and focus areas. This includes: Community Wellbeing & Cohesion. • exploring opportunities to positively influence We have already made progress by adopting a diversity, inclusion and accessibility Diversity & Inclusion Policy with associated measures • exploring opportunities to advance innovation in and targets, and established a staff-led Diversity education, health and wellbeing infrastructure & Inclusion Working Group that meets monthly to drive positive outcomes for the business. In FY19 we • developing a corporate health and also launched LifeStreet as our preferred Employee wellbeing approach Assistance Program focused on whole of life support • piloting diverse housing projects to to the individual. demonstrate innovation In FY20 we will be updating our management • identifying mode-shift opportunities to reduce car approach to capture and address these matters dependency in appropriate locations. more strategically. 30 FY19 Sustainability Report Health, Equity & Inclusion, Community Connection & Safety Performance Results Overview Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Health, Equity & Inclusion, Community Connection and Safety. These focus areas form part of our Healthy & Inclusive Places pillar and represent our social sustainability commitments. FY19 Targets and Performance The below table outlines our FY19 performance against our Health Equity & Inclusion, Community Connection & Safety targets.32 Climate FY18 FY19 Indicator Objective Target performance performance Health, To deliver healthy 2036 Goal: Residents report overall 90% 84% 86% Resilient Places Equity & and inclusive satisfaction with quality of life. Inclusion places founded on 90% residents report high quality public, 80% 83% equity for people active and sustainable transport options of all ages and to key amenities, services, public transport abilities. and employment. Healthy & 90% residents report high physical and 90% 91% mental health, reflecting project design, programs or events that encourage active, Inclusive Places social and healthy eating lifestyles. Community To nurture 90% resident overall satisfaction with the 55% 61% Connection wellbeing and integration of culture and heritage into connection for all all new projects. that live, work and 90% resident reported community 66% 66% recreate in our cohesion across all new projects, by communities. fostering the integration of community Productive networks and facilities into our projects. Safety To drive a culture Achieve a culture of safety throughout our 92% 93% and priority of organisation and on all Landcom projects, Places safety. striving to achieve 90% overall community safety score at our projects. Health, Equity & Inclusion In FY19 Landcom delivered its second Healthy Results reported are aggregated at the portfolio & Inclusive Places Survey (HIPS), seeking to level, and weighted based on the participating Accountable & understand how residents of our communities projects’ respective scale, and the percentage of perceive their quality of life. The survey was open for project population that participated in the survey. participation from 15 April to 17 May 2019, accessible Results against our 2036 Goal for overall quality Collaborative Places online, via telephone survey, and in hard copy. of life satisfaction have improved to 86% in FY19.34 Participating projects represent a diversity of Strong results are also reported for access to typologies, sizes, locations and stage of completion. transport and walkability (83%), and physical and A total of 495 qualifying responses33 were received mental health (91%). across Bunya, Caddens, Spring Farm, Green Square Town Centre, Macarthur Heights, Oran Park Town, Appendices Renwick, and Thornton. 32 FY18 results restated in line with our disclosed updated management approach. 33 Survey data was cleaned for non-qualifying responses, as outlined in the Terms & Conditions of participation. Responses omitted from the overall results included incomplete or duplicates, and non-residents of the participating communities. 34 Results for FY18 restated in line with our improved management approach. FY19 Sustainability Report 31 Community Connection Safety Our FY19 performance results against Community In FY19 residents continue to report high levels of Connection continue to show a year-on-year trend of perceived safety (93%) either at home or within their lower satisfaction by residents for community cohesion community. We ask residents to rate their sense of (66%) and the integration of culture and heritage safety from ‘very unsafe’ to ‘very safe’ in the following (61%). This is consistent with our independent review of situations: historical community development activities showing • at home alone during the day 99% of residents low participation and engagement rates in general. report feeling safe or very safe Examples of FY19 activities undertaken at projects with • walking alone within their community during the an active community development program include: day – 98% of residents reporting feeling safe or • regular walking groups very safe • meeting of resident social clubs • at home alone during the evening – 93% of • mums and bubs groups residents report feeling safe or very safe • celebration of events such as Mothers and • walking alone within their community during the Fathers Day evening – 93% of residents report feeling safe or very safe. • regular playgroup meetings Throughout the design process we continue to adopt • engagement with local schools best practice Crime Prevention through Environmental • community connection events such as movie nights Design (CPTED) principles. or summer festivals. In FY20 we will be adopting a new framework for community development which will directly target increased participation, connection and engagement with our residents. Activities undertaken in FY19 that supported community connection and the integration of culture and heritage include: • Tharawal (Aboriginal Land Council) participation in youth wellbeing event for Mental Health Day • Thornton Welcome Dinner Program, including community facilitator training for nine volunteers and two resident hosted community dinners • art, photography and poetry workshops and events across various communities. 32 FY19 Sustainability Report Case Study: Welcome Dinner Case Study: Inclusive Project, Thornton Playspaces Overview The Welcome Dinner Project is a community Creating quality public spaces that are initiative that connects people through the liveable, healthy and inclusive forms part of universal tradition of sharing food and stories. our Healthy & Inclusive Places pillar. A key component in delivering quality open space The event helps to introduce newly arrived within our communities is playspaces, as they people (migrants, refugees, people seeking provide a place for children and carers to asylum and international students) and connect and to be healthy and active. existing Australian born residents over a shared meal hosted in a community members’ Best practice playspaces apply principles of home. inclusive design and accessibility for people of Climate all ages and abilities to enjoy, including carers. The program, which Landcom piloted in FY19 at our Thornton community, aims to minimise Landcom was an advisory group member in Resilient Places social isolation and to increase connection the establishment of the NSW Everyone Can by helping people who are either new to Play Guideline, which outlines the principles the community or new to Australia, realise a and design features for inclusive playspaces. greater level of independence, create a routine We have begun using the Guideline to assess and develop close friendships and support our existing community playspaces and networks. identify areas for improvement. At Thornton the Welcome Dinner was a huge We found that the results of our Healthy & Healthy & success and connected 15 members of the Inclusive Places survey (HIPs) demonstrated community. The project also trained nine the need for more inclusive playspaces. Of the Inclusive Places Thornton facilitators/hosts to enable them to surveyed communities, 46% of households hold similar events at their home in the future. included children and 11% have at least one A follow up ‘Story Telling’ event was also person experiencing disability. run in a workshop style evaluation forum to In FY20 we will combine our audit data, measure the impact of program on the lives of feedback from our HIPS survey and our the participants and volunteers. ongoing application of the Everyone Can Play “I have never heard my husband say the word Guideline to ensure the future playspaces in Productive grateful. He has been talking with me about our communities are innovative and inclusive his feelings tonight and he is grateful to be for all. Places attending this dinner and to be meeting so many new people.” (Quote from Welcome Dinner participant) Accountable & Collaborative Places Appendices A Welcome Dinner participant. FY19 Sustainability Report 33 Affordability & Diversity Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Affordability & Diversity. This focus area forms part of our Healthy & Inclusive Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to delivering affordable and sustainable communities. In FY18 we released our Housing Affordability & Diversity Policy to drive the delivery of diverse, affordable and accessible homes. It’s important that housing types and tenures meet local demographic diversity and affordability needs. We must also ensure the housing we deliver to market remains current and reflects the changing needs of communities and household compositions. FY19 Targets and Performance In FY19 our targets related to Affordable Housing and Livable Housing Certification as we had no projects in scope for reporting as no new projects were released to market or sold during the reporting period. Indicator Objective Target FY18 FY19 performance performance Affordability Deliver on Deliver 5-10% Affordable Housing No projects No projects & Diversity Landcom’s across the Landcom portfolio. in scope for in scope for commitments for reporting reporting affordable, diverse 20% of medium to high density No projects No projects and sustainable dwellings within all new projects in scope for in scope for homes. achieve Livable Housing Australia reporting reporting Silver Certification (or equivalent). New projects to deliver 10-15% No projects No projects diverse housing. in scope for in scope for reporting reporting Affordability & Diversity We had no projects in scope for reporting against our Upskilling our staff included running a Universal housing targets this year, as new precincts within our Housing seminar with expert speakers, and staff site SMNW Places program did not exchange on contracts visits to exemplar Affordable Housing developments. of sale within the reporting period. We also launched the Housing Indicators tool that provide ABS and other data of projected and current Despite this, we are forecasting full achievement of household needs compared to current housing our targets for all precincts within our SMNW Places stock. Finally we worked to familiarise teams with program, and new projects. the Landcom Affordable Housing Prequalification In FY19 we completed a range of training, research and Scheme, developed to facilitate partnerships with resource development activities to help support future the Community Housing sector. This scheme covers housing affordability and diversity in our communities, all of NSW and is hosted by the Department of and integrated Landcom’s Housing Monitor into project Finance, Services & Innovation making it available business planning and reporting. to government and the private sector to encourage delivery of Affordable Housing. The Housing Monitor is a tool designed to collect detailed housing type information from project teams on an ongoing basis. Its use is now a key component of our annual business planning process and includes forecast future development stages — allowing Landcom to have a clear view of whether we are on track to meet our housing targets for the life of a project. 34 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview As part of our HIPS survey we also asked residents in Landcom communities to state their satisfaction with a range of affordability and diversity Case Study: Build-to-Rent indicators.35 Our results highlighted the following in Australia findings.36 We are always looking for ways to increase • 84% of residents felt that there was a broad range access to affordable and diverse housing for of homes of different sizes, types and prices in our communities. Build-to-Rent (BtR) is an their area, up from 75% in FY18. emerging asset class that has proven success Climate • 69% of residents would look for another home in the United Kingdom and United States. Led within their existing community should their by the University of New South Wales and Macquarie University, and with contributions Resilient Places needs change, up from 67% in FY18. from University of Technology Sydney and • 63% of residents felt there was access to London School of Economics, Landcom reasonable quality housing to rent or buy in their funded research (see Research Investment area, improved from 52% satisfaction in FY18. p. 44) to critically evaluate the potential • 78% of survey respondents would be able to raise of BtR to deliver affordable housing in the $2,000 in an emergency, and for over 50% it Australian market. would not materially impact their household. Of Healthy & all survey respondents 22% would struggle to, or The research examined international case be unable to, meet this demand in an emergency. studies in the United Kingdom and United This is a reduction from our 2018 result of 38%. States that incorporate affordable rental Inclusive Places opportunities and how BtR could fit within the Australian State and Federal policy and taxation environment. The research found that current Australian housing conditions and policy settings constrain the potential of BtR to directly address housing affordability in Australia, but BtR does support increased housing diversity, Productive an important Landcom objective, as well as providing a more secure form of private Places rental housing. Current and projected cumulative housing activity 30,000 Accountable & 25,000 20,000 Collaborative Places 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 Appendices Cumulative Other Dwellings Cumulative Affordable Housing Cumulative Diverse Housing Figure 12 Forecast Housing Affordability targets attainment over 10 years based on current Landcom new projects. 35 The ability to raise $2000 in case of an emergency is a standard Australian Bureau of Statistics method of capturing and measuring mortgage stress; ‘Household Income, living standards and financial stress’, Australian ABS: http://www.abs.gov.au/Ausstats/abs@.nsf/0/793D1402EE51BA8BCA256A5D0004F5D5?Open 36 FY18 results restated in line with our updated management approach. FY19 Sustainability Report 35 Design through Engagement Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Community Engagement and Design. These focus areas form part of our Healthy & Inclusive Places pillar and are a representation of our social sustainability commitments to excellence in design and meaningful engagement with our stakeholders. FY19 Targets and Performance Landcom released the Join In Framework in 2018 as part of our commitment to engagement, and established our Design Advisory Panel in 2019 to address design excellence. Indicator Objective Target FY18 FY19 performance performance Design To optimise the All new projects to undergo peer review No projects 100% through quality of design through the Landcom Design Review Panel in scope Engagement and place and (or equivalent). drive strong No projects 100% All new projects to conform with the engagement community engagement policy, Join In in scope with our Framework, aligned to industry best practice communities and for stakeholder engagement practice. stakeholders. Community Engagement Our approach to working with the people, groups and SMNW Places precincts included Tallawong, Norwest, organisations that have an interest, that will be directly Kellyville and Bella Vista. At these precincts we are impacted, or have an ability to influence our projects working with local councils and other agencies to is guided by our Join In stakeholder engagement plan for growth. We publish regular program updates framework. The framework outlines our commitment for interested stakeholders and have provided to stakeholder engagement and to continued learning opportunities for communities to learn about, and and improvement in our engagement practice to help provide feedback on, development proposals before create more affordable and sustainable communities. seeking approval from consent authorities. Throughout FY19 our focus was on embedding the In FY20 we will maintain up to date communications Join In framework across the organisation through and engagement strategies for our projects and staff training, preparing up to date communications develop plans for new projects. We will continue and engagement strategies for projects, and to embed Join In with ongoing evaluation and staff evaluating our engagement activities. training; with a specific focus on building our capacity for collaborative action with key stakeholders. In FY19 twelve projects have up to date and fit for purpose communications and engagement strategies in place to reflect Join In. Lessons from enagement evaluation this year Collaborative We can adopt a long term approach to relationships to help us to deliver projects. We can grow and sustain more effective working relationships with councils and agencies by focussing our communications on infrastructure provision and collaborating to deliver a common agenda. Purposeful We can communicate more proactively by sharing project updates via a range of communication channels, such as our website and newsletters to keep communities better informed. Proactive We can find opportunities to engage earlier in our development pathway, while plans are being drafted, to enable us to share our aspiration and advocate for future communities and the potential of new places to deliver benefits to both new and existing communities. We can focus on consistently giving communities sufficient notice of opportunities to engage with us and time to reflect and provide feedback on our plans. Accountable We can report outcomes from consultation activities in a more timely way and notify stakeholders who provide us with contact details that engagement outcomes have been reported. We can demonstrate our commitment to accurately report feedback we receive by inviting comment on outcomes reports. Inclusive We can routinely include details for telephone interpreter services on communication materials so that community stakeholders who do not speak English as a first language can access information and engage on our projects. 36 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Design The DRP provides expert review of projects in concept or masterplanning design, with the During FY19 all projects within our business aim of achieving design excellence. Feedback development portfolio, or active projects is often provided for a project team to consider undertaking masterplanning or reviewing design and respond to. The DRP is also kept abreast of and delivery options, presented to the Design design related policy and strategy such as progress Review Panel (DRP). Within our active project against our Sustainable Places Strategy, Housing portfolio this included Edmondson Park, Green Affordability & Diversity targets, and key findings Square, and SMNW Places. Climate from our HIPs survey. Resilient Places Case Study: Valuing Creative Placemaking Placemaking plays an important role in The toolkit is designed to help the people behind how Landcom builds healthy and inclusive creative placemaking projects capture the value of communities. Creative placemaking uses the these activities and understand where they can be Healthy & arts to make a place more vibrant, socially improved. It’s intended to be easy to use, scalable engaging, and interesting by co-ordinating artsdepending the users’ needs, and to help busy based activities within the physical environment, people in a wide range of organisations. Inclusive Places such as public art projects that reflect local The toolkit and a user guide are available on histories. Creative placemakers encourage Landcom’s website. the presence of arts-related businesses, or the staging of arts-related programming and cultural events or activities. To foster a greater understanding of the value of creative placemaking and how to integrate Productive activities into Landcom projects, we partnered with the University of Newcastle, Macquarie University, the University of NSW and City People Places to review existing international literature and practices as part of Landcom’s Roundtable. Together we developed a toolkit designed to assist in the evaluation and understanding the impact of creative placemaking. The literature review was published in July 2018. Preparation of the toolkit synthesised hundreds Accountable & of indicators from existing tools into a set of four tools that can be used by placemakers to plan and evaluate creative placemaking activities. Collaborative Places This included an Organiser Tool, Business Owner survey, Facilitator pre-survey, and Attendee survey. The toolkit was tested at community events held at Green Square, Sydney, Honeysuckle, and Newcastle in 2018 and assessed to ensure alignment with the Green Star Communities Appendices rating tool. A Landcom hosted creative placemaking event. FY19 Sustainability Report 37 Productive Places Leadership Goal Objective Drive the delivery of productive places, and enable jobs for the future. Goal To contribute to a global innovation economy by enabling 30,000 enduring jobs for the future by 2036. Relevant Sustainable Development Goals 38 FY19 Sustainability Report Productive Places Overview Overview Landcom’s Productive Places pillar Management Approach is focused on a leadership goal to Training & Employment ‘contribute to the global innovation Our leadership goal to enable 30,000 jobs across economy by enabling over 30,000 new our communities by 2036 is in direct response jobs by 2036’. This is our economic to the broader NSW government objectives. As at 2036, the Greater Sydney Commission (GSC) pillar committed to delivering places forecasts the Sydney region alone will need Climate that will be productive and engaging 817,000 new jobs. We support these targets by for those that live there. developing productive places and mixed-use Resilient Places communities where people can work, live and play. This leadership goal was developed to reflect Landcom’s commitment to economic development, In FY18 our Economic Development Working Group37 strengthening technology infrastructure and released an approach for overcoming the challenge advancing equitable opportunities for skills of consistently and effectively calculating our development and education. efforts to enable enduring local jobs. We use proxy employment ratios, developed through detailed Landcom addresses the enablement of jobs and research and benchmarking, attributed to various innovation through the following focus areas: Healthy & land uses based on gross floor area. Examples of • Training & employment land uses included are commercial, retail, industrial, • Innovation community, cultural, tourism, health services, Inclusive Places education, storage, hotel, serviced apartment, Both of these focus areas includes a suite of targets student housing and residential. As jobs creation to measure our success. is a long-term goal for Landcom, we report our performance based on the FY actuals, and forecast jobs created for the life of a project.38 This gives us a clear indication of whether we are on track to meet our 2036 target. In FY19 Landcom’s methodology was also adopted Productive across the NSW Government’s Common Planning Assumptions Group (CPAG), influencing a consistent Places government wide approach. We also contribute to advancing education and skills development across our communities. We work with industry and registered training organisations to develop programs that address specific skills requirements of locals, and provide training Accountable & opportunities and employment pathways for those experiencing low or long-term unemployment. We also collaborate with schools and other educational institutions to deliver learning and youth Collaborative Places engagement programs that are aligned with the NSW primary and secondary curriculum topics. For Landcom’s FY19 performance for enabling jobs and providing local training and employment outcomes see Training & Employment Performance Results (p. 42). Appendices 37 The Economic Development Working Group was established during our operations as Landcom trading as ‘UrbanGrowth NSW’. 38 In FY19 we have revised our management approach to include only new projects, or precincts within projects where Landcom has the ability to influence the outcome since the adoption of our Sustainable Places Strategy. Our FY18 results are restated and noted accordingly. FY19 Sustainability Report 39 Innovation the Roundtable meets several times a year to review research proposals that advance urban Landcom invests in research that advances the development innovation. property and development industry, and takes action to future proof our communities. Our Roundtable was established for an initial period of three years, which matured in FY19. As part of We invest in collaborative research such as our commitment to continuous improvement we Cooperative Research Centre programs, or via commissioned the Australia and New Zealand School of our own Roundtable. Landcom’s Roundtable is a Government to undertake an independent evaluation of collaboration with other government organisations39 the Roundtable. The outcomes have guided Landcom and eight leading NSW universities. Comprised to adopt research priorities for future investigation of senior representatives from each institution, aligned to our Strategic Directions: Governance: Landcom’s Roundtable Research Program Landcom’s Roundtable Landcom Sustainability and Learning Team Pipeline of potential research projects (incubation and acceleration); shared learning events; conferences; exhibitions; design studios; data visualisation; publications; awareness; connection to schools (K-12) and vocational educational partners Roundtable Research Priorities aligned to Landcom's Strategic Directions 39 During FY19 government participants included Government Architect NSW, Greater Sydney Commission, Hunter & Central Coast Development Corporation and UrbanGrowth NSW Development Corporation. 40 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Landcom Strategic Direction Research Priority Housing Landcom is interested in research that: Increase the affordability, supply • clarifies how Landcom can deliver innovative housing governance and diversity of housing or tenure models for low to moderate household incomes • identifies relevant new housing design typologies that are scaleable, affordable and resilient to future market changes. Climate Partnerships Landcom is interested in research that: Resilient Places Partner with others to unlock • empowers future project resilience to the changing nature of cities, development opportunities and infrastructure, employment, people and communities. improve delivery Leadership Landcom is interested in research that: Demonstrate excellence in • empowers urban developers to advance the delivery of Healthy & sustainable development and sustainable, socially equitable, environmentally friendly and planning practices commercially viable communities • enables the delivery of new home designs that meet the needs of Inclusive Places the diverse communities in which we operate • empowers the commercialisation of knowledge creation to benefit Landcom and industry. Landcom addresses emerging technologies in our Our Future Priorities Productive Innovation focus area. Currently we are seeking to roll out smart technology to our new communities Our Sustainable Places Strategy identifies a number of initiatives as future opportunities to enhance our Places in the form of electric vehicle (EV) rapid charge stations and increasing the provision of free Wi-Fi Productive Places commitments. These include: in public places. We see these initiatives as future• adopting a Reconciliation Action Plan proofing communities, reducing inequalities in • considering our business approach to access to information and ensuring early adoption staff volunteering of future transport technologies. • advancing our approach to smart cities Ultimately, the provision of EV chargers and innovation throughout Landcom communities improves Accountable & • seeking collaborative opportunities to resilience, reduces greenhouse gas emissions, and deliver smart working hubs and other reduces transport related cost of living expenses community enablers. for residents. These targets also contribute to Landcom’s low-carbon transport approach, In FY20 we will update our management approach Collaborative Places including accessibility to public transport, walkable to include the adoption and delivery of a and cycling-friendly neighbourhoods (see Health, Reconciliation Action Plan. This responds to our new Equity & Inclusion on p. 31). material matter of respecting indigenous culture and heritage. We will also continue to investigate For our FY19 activities related to Innovation see opportunities for more staff volunteering, smart Innovation Performance Results (p. 44). cities and the delivery of collaborative work hubs. Appendices FY19 Sustainability Report 41 Training & Employment Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Training & Employment. This focus area forms part of our Productive Cities pillar and is a representation of our commitment to advancing needs-based education, skills and training to our communities. FY19 Targets and Performance In FY19 all targets for reporting against our Training & Employment were in scope. Our results are presented below. Indicator Objective Target FY18 performance FY19 performance Training & To provide To contribute to a global 354 cumulative jobs 363 cumulative jobs Employment opportunities innovation economy by enabled enabled for skills enabling 30,000 enduring jobs (24,881 jobs projected (26,734 projected by development, for the future by 2036. by 2036) 2036) education and employment that Projects to engage and Engaged over 700 Engaged over 1,500 will support our foster education, learning or students across our students across our communities to employment outcomes via Skills Exchange, Skills Exchange, thrive. actives or initiatives, based on research and research and identified needs of the local excursion programs excursion programs and regional community. Enabling Enduring Jobs Landcom is on track to meet our commitment to uplift in jobs creation comes from our SMNW Places enable 30,000 enduring jobs by 2036.40 FY19 in scope precincts, located on the new northwest metro line. projects include remaining stages at Edmondson Park, We have also increased our future projections due to Lachlan’s Line and Green Square, and new precincts Macarthur Gardens North coming online as a project across SMNW Places and Macarthur Gardens North.41 within the masterplanning phase, and refining our vision of future land uses across several SMNW Places There is only a minor shift in our actuals performance precincts. Within the SMNW Places program, several from FY18 to FY19, which reflects the Edmondson Park precincts are due to exchange on sales contracts Bambi Childcare Centre delivered by our construction during FY20, which will drive a significant uplift in our team during the reporting period. The greatest actuals reported for FY20. Progress towards leadership goal: enabling 30,000 enduring jobs for the future by 2036 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 0 FY18 FY19 2036 Beyond Contracted/sold/ built (cumulative) 354 363 Projected 363 27,117 30,000 Target 30,000 30,000 30,000 30,000 Figure 13 Progress towards achieving our commitment to enable 30,000 enduring jobs is seen to advance quickly from FY20 onwards. This is due to new projects such as those in the SMNW Places program coming online. 40 FY18 results are restated based on our updated management approach to include only projects with precincts remaining that Landcom can directly influence outcomes. 41 Edmondson Park Stages 3, 5, 6 and 9; all Lachlan’s Line stages excluding North Station and Green Square stages 2, 3 and 4. 42 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Training & Employment In FY19 we delivered our Skills Exchange program Case Study: Collaborative at Macarthur Heights, and commenced a new Urban Teaching Platform program at Bonnyrigg. This is an extension of our Skills Exchange investment that commenced at Airds Universities and governments are increasingly and Claymore in FY18. These communities have an encouraged to work collaboratively on largeidentified need for employment pathways for young scale urban development projects. Landcom people and the long-term unemployed.42 fosters this engagement through research Climate and student engagement activities under At Macarthur Heights ten participants commenced the Universities Framework Agreement. One the eight-week program, with a total of seven such initiative is the Collaborative Urban Resilient Places completions, and five students successfully Teaching Platform (CUTP) which is a multiplaced in full time employment immediately after university, cross-disciplinary urban teaching fulfilling the course requirements. Participants that partnership developed by Landcom and completed the program obtained a Certificate II several NSW-based universities. of Land and Conservation Management, and five secured a pathway into full time employment in the The inaugural CUTP was run in the second construction industry. semester of 2018, bringing together over Healthy & 150 undergraduate and postgraduate Landcom uses the Australian Social Value Bank students from seven courses across the (ASVB) Value Calculator to assess the financial University of Sydney, the University of Inclusive Places impact of these programs. Total financial investment Technology Sydney, the University of NSW from Landcom in the program is approximately and Western Sydney University. $7,000. Based on the seven students that completed the course and five successful work Each course adopted either the Landcom placements, the projected net benefit totals just Bella Vista or Tallawong Station precincts over $162,000, representing a cost benefit ratio (part of our SMNW Places program) as their over 18:1. The net benefit per participant is assumed semester-long case study. Landcom provided to be in excess of $16,200. information about their objectives for the project to all participating students at a joint Productive Participants of our Bonnyrigg program will briefing on 10 August 2018. Places graduate in early FY20. The best student groups pitched their ideas We also engaged over 1,500 secondary and tertiary and development proposals to judges from students throughout the reporting period, as part of Landcom at the end of the semester, at a final our Roundtable research programs, school excursion event on 19 October 2018, with prizes awarded programs, events and project engagements. This for the most innovative proposals that met ranged from guest lectures to Bachelor or Master’s Landcom’s objectives. degree candidates by our senior leaders, through to providing students with access to our assets to learn In addition to the CUTP, Landcom provided Accountable & about real world development practices. opportunities for over 100 other postgraduate students from The University of Technology Sydney, Western Sydney University, Macquarie University and the University of NSW to Collaborative Places engage with Landcom projects through guest lectures provided by Landcom senior managers, visits to project sites, and student research and case study projects. Appendices 42 Airds: 26% unemployment rate: https://profile.id.com.au/campbelltown/employment-status?WebID=100; Claymore: 27% unemployment rate: https://profile.id.com.au/campbelltown/employment-status?WebID=100 FY19 Sustainability Report 43 Innovation Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Innovation. This focus area forms part of our Productive Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to advancing innovation through our business, and to our communities. FY19 Targets and Performance In FY19 our targets for the delivery of electric vehicle charging and public Wi-Fi remain out of scope, due to no new projects being delivered or sold during the reporting period. Indicator Objective Target FY18 FY19 performance performance Innovation Research Measure and report annual investment in research $875,289 $491,840 Investment and development. cash cash $402,708 in-kind All project teams engaged in Landcom’s Four project Two project Roundtable ‘Communities of Practice’ program. teams teams engaged engaged To pioneer Greenfield/Regional: all new communities provide No projects No projects new ideas electric vehicle chargers to service a minimum in scope in scope and foster 10% total dwellings (as either publicly accessible opportunities or private use). within our Urban Renewal/High Density: provide a minimum innovation 10% parking yield, per parking lot, as EV Charge economy. Station ‘turn-key’ ready at development completion. Key open spaces to provide free Wi-Fi access. No projects No projects in scope in scope Research Investment In FY19 Landcom contributed $894,548 total Landcom has also been a funding contributor to the investment value into collaborative research led by CRC Low Carbon Living (CRCLCL) for the past eight participants of Landcom’s Roundtable. In FY19 this years. In FY19 we maintained our ongoing annual includes $402,708 worth of estimated in-kind value investment of $16,000. The CRCLCL program closed contribution from Landcom employees43, based on at the end of this reporting period. research investment made at or before 30 June 2019. In FY19 there were 14 new or ongoing research In addition, approximately $1.1 million worth of in-kind projects related to our operations. A summary is time contributions was made by NSW government provided opposite. agencies or university partners. Many projects undertaken by Landcom’s Roundtable include longterm research outcomes, and as such may be included across multiple reporting years. 43 Due to the organisational separation from UrbanGrowth NSW Development Corporation during FY18 we are unable to accurately reflect the in-kind contribution of Landcom employees only; as disclosed in our FY18 report. 44 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Research Projects Description Sustainable Urban Food Explores the relationship between local food ecologies and Production urban redevelopment. Creating the City Investigates barriers to housing diversity in NSW with consideration to We Want diverse family structures, cultural groups and aging. Climate Healthier Higher Density Generates new knowledge and tools to address gaps in understanding Living the way health evidence can be applied to the planning of higher density urban precincts. Resilient Places From Suburban to Urban Reviews open space definitions, typologies and uses by public to better inform local and state policies and practices in the provisioning and delivery of open spaces. Phytoremediation of Demonstrates how phytoremediation can be used to rehabilitate and Contaminated Land restore balance to contaminated soil. Designing Bio-Shelters Applies cutting-edge modelling techniques more usually applied to Healthy & architectural problems to design artificial habitats for native biodiversity Inclusive Places in heavily urbanised estuaries. New Generation Assesses how workspaces can be integrated into new developments Workspace and and within planning regulations. It also includes architecture and design Precinct Activation studio projects which will experiment with different spatial configurations, typologies and concepts for the zone. Strategies for Planning Safe Examines how counter-terrorism protective security can be integrated into and Secure Public Domain design and development processes for crowded public places in Australia. Productive Valuing Creative Evaluates creative placemaking activities and links to social and economic Places Placemaking value. Assesses the direct or associated financial value for developers. Community Demonstrates public sector innovation through the use of Urban Pinboard Engagement 4.0 as a community engagement tool. Uses 3D modelling to assist in explaining planning concepts to the public. Predictive Housing Develops a framework and tool to more accurately forecast long-term Accountable & Price Model (8 to 10 years) real estate prices in the Sydney residential property market. Collaborative Robotics Investigates how collaborative robotics can help address the shortage of skilled labour to meet NSW housing goals. Cooling the Commons Evaluates how heat impacts people’s movement between indoor spaces and Collaborative Places use of the public realm, such as footpaths, shops, schools, parks, workplaces. Affordable Build-to-Rent Critically evaluates built-to-rent potential to deliver affordable housing in the Australian market, based on international case studies in the UK and USA. Appendices FY19 Sustainability Report 45 Emerging Technologies In FY19 Landcom had no projects in scope for our Case Study: Collaborative targets related to the provision of electric vehicle Robotics (EV) rapid charge stations or shared charging points. This target applies to new Landcom communities, for As part of our commitment to leadership which we had none in scope this reporting year. Landcom entered into a collaborative research project with Western Sydney University, the However, during FY18-19 we partnered with University of NSW and the University of Sydney Sustainability Advantage (NSW Office of Environment as part of our Roundtable in 2018. We explored and Heritage) to identify ways we can advance the the question ‘How can collaborative robotics provision of EVs across our existing projects, and drive (Cyber-physical system, social robotics, and the uptake of EVs by residents of our communities. human computer interaction) help to address Through this collaboration Landcom, Sustainability the shortage of skilled labour to meet NSW’s Advantage and our consulting partner developed a housing goals?’ methodology to analyse vehicle trip logs and establish the individualised business case for the vehicle owner Industry wide, an increasing shortfall in or operator’s transition to EVs. qualified building tradespersons is expected to constrain the future delivery of quality housing Developing this information and data set supports to meet the needs of the diverse communities us in communicating the operational insights, costs, in which we operate. The adoption of robotic and benefits of adopting EVs to future development technologies on construction sites offers partners, and residents. Our aim is to encourage the potential to address this challenge and minimise uptake of low-carbon transport usage across Landcom hazards to workers, speed up processes, reduce communities using evidence and data. Landcom has waste, shorten construction timescales and used this data to inform the return on investment of reduce costs. transitioning our own fleet vehicles to EVs. The adoption of robotic technologies in Equitable Access to Information construction is a rapidly changing field. An international review found there are very There were no new projects in scope for this target few instances of wide-scale collaborative during the reporting period. Landcom has included robotics adoption in construction globally, this requirement in all Expressions of Interest and and no examples in Australia. However, there Invitations to Tender sent to market during FY19. We are a growing number of innovative startexpect to report against this target in FY20. up companies and established construction industry players interested in the potential offered by CoBots (collaborative robots). The research team held a series of workshops with Landcom sub-contractors to determine the most suitable trades for CoBots at construction sites, and potential challenges with introducing CoBots. This ranged from mobility and safety considerations, to the need for re-training. Researchers then analysed the workflow of carpenters working on a Landcom construction site and used motion tracking technology in lab-based experiments to explore how tradespersons and CoBots could collaborate. This early stage research will be completed in FY20, providing a sound foundation for further development of technological innovations to Robotics in action at a Landcom event. improve the safety, productivity and quality of housing construction in Australia. 46 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Accountable & Climate Resilient Places Collaborative Places Healthy & Inclusive Places Accountability & Collaboration is our governance principle. Our Leadership Goal is to deliver accountability and performance along our value chain. To advance our business approach to delivering productive cities, our current and short Productive term priorities are outlined below. Future targets and measures will be adopted over time, where appropriate. Places Accountability • Participate in Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmarking to independently verify our sustainability performance. • Continue to report sustainability performance in line with Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines. Accountable & • Develop an approach to Human Rights with consideration for Modern Slavery. Collaborative Places Supply Chain • Seek to broaden our approach to include industry partnerships in support of reducing instances of social issues that impact the development and Collaboration construction industry (e.g. suicide). • Work with industry to upskill the supply chain on sustainability issues (e.g. through partnership with Supply Chain Sustainability School). Appendices Relevant Sustainable Development Goals FY19 Sustainability Report 47 Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview Landcom’s Accountable & Collaborative In FY19 Landcom placed a high focus on advancing our review of our human rights risks and opportunities Places pillar is focused on a leadership across corporate and development operations. goal to ‘drive accountability and The recent introduction of federal modern slavery performance along our value chain’. legislation, and growing stakeholder awareness of corporate social responsibility for human rights, has This leadership goal was developed to led organisations such as ours to seek a detailed reflect Landcom’s commitment to robust understanding of potential human rights impacts governance collaboration within our within our operations or supply chain. In seeking to understand Landcom’s relationship to human rights we: organisation and supply chain. • mapped Landcom’s stakeholder activities Accountability means creating a system with a and relationships level playing field in which decisions are made for the betterment and benefit of all stakeholders. • completed a desktop review and internal Performance means seeking ever greater stakeholder engagement interviews to identify improvements in efficiency and outcomes. Our value relevant human rights risks and issues chain refers to all organisations that we deal with • prioritised and consolidated the human rights in our operations. By championing better ways to risks and issues based on saliency and Landcom’s approach business we seek to lead the industry in trust, potential to influence, mitigate or remediate the transparency, governance and efficient outcomes. risk or issue Landcom addresses accountability and collaboration • validated identified risks with key Landcom through the following focus areas: internal stakeholders. Human rights issues most relevant to Landcom were • Accountability identified across five enduring rights, including labour, • Supply Chain civil and political, culture and heritage, security and Both of these focus areas includes a suite of priorities privacy, land and environment. Within these, our three or actions to measure our success. While this pillar priority areas to focus will include modern slavery, includes individual priorities for achievement, it also workplace diversity and inclusion, and workplace has a broad governance reach across Landcom’s health and wellbeing. entire Sustainable Places Strategy. We are already well underway in progressing our approach to modern slavery, diversity and Management Approach inclusion. In FY20 we will formalise our method to address these rights and embed an appropriate Accountability management approach. To see our FY19 progress Landcom is committed to supporting international on modern slavery see Accountability Performance agreements, protocols and targets to ensure our Results (p. 50). planet and communities thrive into the future. Urban development and the property sector make a material contribution to global emissions, the quality of life experienced by citizens and the resilience of our built and natural environments. Therefore, Landcom believes it is critical to align with, and report our contribution towards the United Nations Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals, Resilient Sydney Strategic Directions and COP21 Paris Agreement. 48 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Framework Our Response United Nations Global Compact In February 2019 Landcom became a Participant of the United Nations (UNGC) Global Compact. We will report our Communication on Progress annually. Sustainable Development Goals Our Sustainable Places Strategy was directly informed by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We report our contribution to the SDGs annually. See Appendix B: Sustainable Development Goals Climate Alignment (p. 56). Paris Agreement COP21 Our environmental leadership goal is to ‘enable carbon neutral outcomes at communities by 2028’. See Greenhous Gas Emissions Resilient Places Reduction (p. 18) and Urban Heat Island Reduction (p. 15). Global Real Estate Sustainability Landcom voluntarily participates in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) Benchmark (GRESB) Developer Assessment. It evaluates the environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance of companies, organisations and fund managers that focus on development activities, rather than the management of standing investments. See Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (p. 51). NSW Government Resource We report our overall sustainability performance against the NSW Healthy & Efficiency Policy Government Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP), which guides our Inclusive Places approach to energy, water and waste efficiency in our corporate operations, and helps demonstrates Landcom’s alignment with the NSW State Government’s sustainability goals.44 For our FY19 performance against the GREP see Accountability Performance Results (p. 50). Human Rights Landcom operates entirely within NSW, and as such benefits from high standards of governance and legislation Australia adopts regarding human rights. We are a Participant to the United Nations Global Productive Compact (UNGC) and we support the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We Places focus on human rights areas we have the potential to influence, mitigate or remediate. This includes our identified focus areas of modern slavery, workplace diversity and inclusion, and workplace wellbeing. To see more on our management approach for Human Rights see p. 48. Supply Chain Launched in Australia in 2015, the School works to develop the sustainability skills and knowledge of Accountable & Landcom has two main interfaces with our supply those working in complex property and construction chain, being our corporate procurement for goods supply chains. Through self-assessment tools and and services, and development procurement for free resources, it helps organisations of all sizes the design and delivery of our assets. We believe in address issues such as modern slavery, sustainable Collaborative Places partnering with industry organisations that share the procurement and materials innovation. same values and aspirations as Landcom. We embed requirements in civil and landscape works We are committed to driving accountability and contracts for suppliers to become members of the performance along our value chain. This means Supply Chain School and participate in upskilling their proactively engaging with our suppliers, particularly own employees. This is also a mandatory requirement those we partner with to deliver our projects. As part Appendices when we divest assets through our contracts of sale. of our management approach Landcom is a member of the Australian Supply Chain Sustainability School. 44 As outlined in NSW 2021: A Plan to Make NSW Number One which aims to drive resource efficiency by NSW Government agencies in three main areas — energy, water and waste — and to reduce harmful air emissions from government operations. FY19 Sustainability Report 49 Accountability Performance Results Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Accountability. This focus area forms part of our Accountable & Collaborative Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to robust governance and performance, both within our own organisation and in our supply chain. Our Annual and Sustainability reporting continues to be an important part of how we transparently share our organisational performance with our stakeholders. Sustainable Development Goals Landcom reports our alignment and contribution to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy is aligned to all of the SDGs. Each year we will continue to track our progress against meeting the SDGs and their respective targets relevant to Landcom and our operations. Sustainable Places Sustainable Development Goals Strategy Pillar Climate Resilient Places Healthy & Inclusive Places Productive Places Accountable & Collaborative Places To see our full alignment against the SDGs, and our targets and actions in FY19 to address them, refer to Appendix B: Sustainable Development Goals Alignment (p. 56). 50 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark In FY19 Landcom participated in the Global Landcom continues to perform strongly for Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) Management and Policy compared to our peer Developer Assessment. This was our third year group. This is highly reflective of our efforts to participating in GRESB. maintain a high level of governance and probity over our operations. We achieved a score of 91/100, accompanied by a Green Star rating representative of Landcom’s The following table summarises our results performance within the top 20% of all participants. and benchmarking. Overall our performance positions Landcom as third Climate most sustainable developer in the Asia Pacific, and fourth globally, compared to other participants using the Developer reporting module. Resilient Places FY18 FY19 Healthy & 64 68 90 GRESB average 91 GRESB average Inclusive Places Overall score 67 Overall score 69 Peer average Peer average Peer comparison Peer comparison Productive 3rd out of 18 Developer/Asia Pacific 4 th Globally 3rd out of 21 Developer/Asia Pacific 4th Globally Places Implementation & Measurement Implementation & Measurement 87/100 84/100 60 GRESB average 64 Peer average 62 GRESB average 63 Peer average Accountable & Management & Policy Management & Policy 93/100 95/100 Collaborative Places 67 GRESB average 69 Peer average 71 GRESB average 73 Peer average GRESB Green Star GRESB Green Star Appendices FY19 Sustainability Report 51 Modern Slavery NSW Government Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP) The Federal Modern Slavery Act commenced on 1 Throughout the reporting period Landcom January 2019. The Act requires entities with an annual continued to voluntarily adopt the NSW Government revenue of $100 million or more based or operating in Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP). The GREP helps Australia to prepare annual statements on potential the NSW Government to set an example in addressing modern slavery risks in their operations and supply the challenge of rising resource costs, and reducing chains and disclose the steps they have taken in impacts on our economy, environment and community. addressing those risks. From FY20 Landcom will be a reporting entity under this Act. The GREP guides Landcom’s approach to energy, water and waste efficiency in our corporate In FY19 we became founding members of the Property operations, and helps us align with the State Council of Australia Supplier Engagement Platform. Government’s sustainability goals.45 Key activities in This is an industry initiative by the top developers and the reporting year related to the GREP include: construction firms in Australia taking a collaborative due diligence approach to our shared supply chain. • a total of 10.47 tonnes of Scope 1 CO2 emissions were recorded for the reporting year. Sources This will continue throughout FY20 as we progress a were one sales office (gas) and Landcom’s fleet comprehensive strategy for managing modern slavery vehicles (fuel combustion). Landcom had no risks within our operations and supply chain. biogenic emissions. We are currently in the process of offsetting our fleet vehicle emissions from FY18 Diversity & Inclusion and FY19 (combined c.25 tonnes CO2-e). In FY19 Landcom continued to advance our workplace • Landcom had no Scope 2 emissions, as the approach to diversity and inclusion. This included 142,381kWh of electricity used to power our establishing an employee led Diversity & Inclusion office was 100% Green Power working group, adopting an industry benchmarked • maintained our 6 Star NABERS Energy Rating Diversity & Inclusion Policy and establishing for our Parramatta Office. measurable targets for future performance reporting. To date, Landcom has not set a baseline year for our In FY20 we will seek to adopt the GRI Standards for Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions as we have consistently reporting diversity and inclusion within Landcom, in purchased green power or offset all our emissions conjunction with a new management approach. within operational control. We do adopt the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Scheme global warming potential account factors. We also use the tool CCAP Integrated to capture and synthesise our data, which also follows the NGER Scheme protocols. Case Study: LifeStreet Employee Assistance Program Landcom recognises that managing work, Digitally based, users can access their own relationships, caring responsibilities, finances LifeStreet profile via a secure login, and use a and other life needs can be challenging at times self-assessment tool to help direct them to the for us all. To support our staff, in FY19 Landcom appropriate resources on their platform. Topics introduced LifeStreet – a new Employee Assistance span health and wellness, family and relationships, Program focused on wellbeing and an individual’s work and career, psychological and emotional life as a whole. wellbeing, carers’ needs, financial management and planning, and purpose and contribution. Users LifeStreet offers workplace assistance services to can also be connected to coaches or medical all staff and immediate family members, and also professionals – such as sleep psychologists if that has resources and tools for staff to use in their lives is an area of personal wellbeing improvement a more broadly. user may need support with. 45 As outlined in NSW 2021: A plan to Make NSW Number One, which aims to drive resource efficiency by NSW Government agencies in three main areas — energy, water and waste — and also reduce harmful air emissions from government operations. 52 FY19 Sustainability Report Supply Chain Performance Results Overview Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy addresses Supply Chain. This focus area forms part of our Accountable & Collaborative Places pillar and is a representation of our commitment to robust performance, both within our own organisation and in our supply chain. Upskill Our Supply Chain cid:image001.png@01D56A3C. A key way Landcom drives the uptake of the Supply CBA41D90 Chain School’s content with our suppliers is through contractual obligations. In FY18 we began requiring Climate contractors who work on projects, and developers who purchase land from us, to become members Resilient Places of the School. We are currently in the process of testing the successful uptake of this requirement, and will report on progress again in FY20. We are also exploring how to expand this requirement to major works contracts such as civil construction and landscaping. In FY20 we will continue to explore opportunities Healthy & for supplier engagement, and further embed the resources provided by the Supply Chain School into training modules for Landcom staff and our Inclusive Places Civil works construction at the Oran Park Town supply chain. community in Oran Park. Case Study: Sustainability • Active participation in the program • Demonstrated leadership and commitment Advantage to sustainability In recognition of Landcom’s continued Productive • Established planning and management advancement in integrating sustainability into systems for environmental practice, including business as usual activities the NSW Minister for Places processes for continuous improvement Environment and Energy presented Landcom • Engagement: Promoting sustainability with a Bronze award in June 2019 as part of the practices internally among staff, and Sustainability Advantage Recognition Scheme. externally with suppliers, customers and the The award honours significant advancement wider industry within the first year of joining the Sustainability Advantage program run by the NSW Office of • Achievements: Demonstrated environmental the Environment and Heritage. outcomes in the last 12 months. Accountable & The award was strongly influenced by Landcom’s Landcom sees strong benefits in participating Sustainability Rebate Scheme on the Macarthur in the program to advance shared knowledge Heights project launched in 2019 which is and learning with parts of industry we would not designed to encourage individual home owners normally interact with, gaining direct access to Collaborative Places to build more efficient, healthy homes for Office of Environment and Heritage programs, themselves and the environment. participation in leading thinking which aligns with Landcom’s objectives and access to The Office of Environment and Heritage’s resources to support Landcom’s Sustainable criteria for recognition rest upon participating Places Strategy priorities. organisations achieving progress in the We are committed to ongoing participation in Appendices following areas: the Sustainability Advantage program and will strive to further embed innovative sustainability initiatives across our business. FY19 Sustainability Report 53 Appendix A: Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement to the Board and Management of Landcom We, Point Advisory Pty Ltd (‘Point Advisory’), performed independent assurance over selected performance data and statements presented in Landcom’s FY19 Sustainability Report (‘the Report’) which includes performance over the period 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019. Respective responsibilities • Landcom management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the information within the Report. Landcom management is also responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of internal controls relevant to the preparation of the Report, so that it is free from material misstatement. Landcom management is also responsible for setting targets and for the development of appropriate internal controls to monitor performance. • Point Advisory’s responsibility, in accordance with Landcom management’s instructions, is to carry out a ‘limited level’ ASAE3000 1 assurance engagement on selected data and performance claims in the Report and a Type 2 ‘moderate level’ of assurance over the Report in accordance with AccountAbility’s AA1000AS (2008)2. We do not accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organisation. Other stakeholders should do their own due diligence before taking any action as a result of this statement. Criteria We have used the following criteria against which to evaluate the content of the Report: • The AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness • The Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards) • Landcom’s own reporting criteria (as set out in the Report) and relevant policies and procedures to evaluate the selected data. Our methodology Our assurance engagement was planned and performed in accordance with ASAE3000 and AA1000AS (2008). The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and included the steps outlined below: • Interviewed a selection of Landcom’s executives and managers to understand its material sustainability topics (‘material topics’) and the effectiveness of its responses, including how sustainability is integrated across the organisation and projects. • Reviewed a selection of corporate documents including the Sustainable Places Strategy and other key internal documents to understand Landcom’s material topics, how they are managed and what progress was made during the reporting period. • Reviewed the coverage of material topics within the Report against the key sustainability topics raised in media reports, peer reports, management interviews, key internal documents and the outputs from Landcom’s materiality process. • Interviewed data owners of selected data sets to understand how they collected, calculated and aggregated sustainability data from projects as well as what assumptions or estimations were made. • Sought and reviewed supporting information or explanations for selected data, statements and claims within the Report regarding Landcom’s sustainability performance. • Checked whether sustainability data in the Report had been calculated and aggregated accurately, was consistent with Landcom’s internal records, and according to managements explanations and disclosures. • Reviewed and assessed Landcom’s reported alignment with the requirements of the GRI Standards. The limitations of our review Our evidence gathering procedures were designed to obtain a ‘limited level’ of assurance (as set out in ASAE3000) on which to base our conclusions. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed is less than that of a reasonable assurance engagement (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. Further to this, we did not visit project sites or interview project teams. Our conclusions and observations Our detailed observations and areas for improvement will be raised in a report to Landcom management. In line with the scope of our independent assurance engagement, including the criteria and methodology described above, we conclude that: • based on our ‘limited’ assurance procedures under ASAE3000, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that selected sustainability disclosures have not been reported fairly and accurately. • based on our ‘moderate level’ of assurance procedures under AA1000AS (2008), nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Landcom has not adhered to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness when reporting its sustainability performance. 1 Standard on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information Issued by the Auditing and Assurance Standards Board 2 AA1000 AS (2008) Assurance Standard 54 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Completeness and accuracy of performance information We have reviewed information or explanations for selected data and statements on Landcom’s sustainability activities presented in the Report and we are not aware of any misstatements in the assertions made. Evaluating adherence to AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Our detailed conclusions regarding Landcom’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and selected observations are provided below, and do not affect our conclusions on the Report set out earlier in this statement. AA1000 AccountAbility Conclusions Observations Climate Principles Resilient Places Inclusivity We are not aware of any key stakeholder Landcom understands the benefits of engaging with its stakeholders, with Has Landcom included groups which have been excluded from both its Strategic Directions and Sustainable Places Strategy reflecting stakeholders in developing engagement nor any matters that would stakeholder engagement-related performance objectives. During the and delivering its lead us to conclude that Landcom has not reporting period Landcom maintained its stakeholder feedback channels sustainability approach? applied the inclusivity principle in developing and made demonstrable progress towards embedding its stakeholder its approach to sustainability. engagement approach (Join In) across the organisation and within projects. Materiality We are not aware of any material topics in Landcom refreshed its materiality assessment during the reporting period, Healthy & Has Landcom provided a our review of Landcom sustainability identifying its eleven material matters. Each of the identified topics are balanced representation of governance documentation which have been relevant to one or more of the four categories of its Sustainable Places material topics concerning excluded from the Report, and nothing has Strategy. These matters have guided Landcom’s disclosures against the GRI come to our attention that causes us to Standards topic disclosure requirements. Several new topics were identified Inclusive Places its sustainability performance? believe that Landcom management has not and Landcom has committed to developing or formalising respective applied its processes for determining management approaches to those matters where required. material topics to be included in the Report. Responsiveness We are not aware of any key actions or Landcom’s Sustainable Places Strategy remains in place with the strategy’s Has Landcom responded to initiatives responding to material topics vision, goals, and targets demonstrating a comprehensive response to stakeholder perspectives which have been excluded from the Report stakeholder perspectives and material topics. The strategy’s leadership and their interests and nor any matters that would lead us to goals and aspirational targets continue to drive the organisation’s Productive concerns? conclude that Landcom has not applied the responses to key impacts and where it can continue to demonstrate responsiveness principle in considering the sustainability leadership in the industry and among government agency Places matters to be reported. peers. Review of alignment with the GRI Standards We have reviewed Landcom’s reported alignment with the GRI Standards and we are not aware of any misstatements in the assertions made. Our independence We are not aware of any issues that could impair our independence or objectivity for this assurance engagement. Point Advisory’s independence policy and supporting measures apply to management and professional staff. This policy also prohibits any financial interests Accountable & in our clients that would or might be seen to impair independence. Our team Led by a Lead Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner (CSAP), our assurance team has qualifications and experience in applying the Collaborative Places ASAE3000, AA1000AS (2008) and GRI Standards relevant for this sustainability assurance engagement. On behalf of the assurance team. Alan Dayeh Appendices Managing Principal, NSW Lead CSAP (AccountAbility UK) Point Advisory, Sydney 25 October 2019 FY19 Sustainability Report 55 Appendix B: Sustainable Development Goals Alignment Landcom is committed to supporting international agreements, protocols and targets to help ensure our planet and communities thrive into the future. As part of this commitment we report our contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).46 In summary, our Climate Resilient Places pillar supports SDGs 1, 2, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 and 15. Our Healthy & Inclusive Places pillar supports SDGs 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 16 and 17. Our Productive Places pillar supports SDGs 4, 8, 9 and 10. Our Accountable & Collaborative Places pillar supports SDGs 8, 16 and 17. SDG Goal & Target Landcom Response Goal 1: End poverty in all its Landcom supports the ending of poverty through our forms everywhere mandate to provide Affordable Housing.47 We expand on this to ensure housing diversity and accessibility are Target: By 2030, build addressed, for equity. the resilience of the poor Healthy & Inclusive Places Targets and those in vulnerable situations and reduce their Deliver 5-10% Affordable Housing across the exposure and vulnerability Landcom portfolio. to climate-related extreme Deliver 10-15% diverse housing across our portfolio events and other economic, social and environmental 20% of medium to high density dwellings within all new shocks and disasters projects are achieve Livable Housing Australia Silver Certification (or equivalent). Landcom further supports all community members, including the vulnerable, to increase their resilience to climate related extremes and other shocks or stresses through our commitments to building resilience. Climate Resilient Places Targets All projects to prepare and implement an effective Climate Change Adaptation Plan; and Community Resilience Plan. Goal 2: End hunger, achieve Landcom is seeking ensure access to nutritious food by food security and improved mandating the adoption of independent rating tools – such nutrition and promote as Green Star Communities. Within these tools, we will aim sustainable agriculture to achieve all credits related to ‘access to fresh food’. Target: By 2030, end hunger Climate Resilient Places Targets and ensure access by all All projects will adopt the use industry recognised rating people, in particular the poor tools at a masterplan and built form scale, achieving not and people in vulnerable less than ‘Australian Best Practice’ equivalent. situations, including infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round 46 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (2018) https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ 47 Managed or owned by a Community Housing Provider for not less than 10 years, and accessible to people who meet the government means testing (or other criteria) for access to Affordable Housing. 56 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview SDG Goal & Target Landcom Response Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives Landcom is committed to ensuring our communities are and promote wellbeing for mentally and physically well. We address this through the all at all ages design of our communities, and activities or programs we offer throughout the year. We then measure our ongoing Target: By 2030, reduce by success through direct engagement with the people living in one third premature mortality our communities. from non-communicable Climate Healthy & Inclusive Places Targets diseases through prevention and treatment and promote All projects provide design, programs or events that mental health and wellbeing encourage active, social and healthy eating lifestyles, achieve Resilient Places 90% resident reported health and wellbeing. All new projects are designed and delivered to achieve 90% resident satisfaction with public, active and sustainable transport options to key amenities, services, public transport and employment. Activities FY19 Landcom Community Development programs related to Healthy & health, offered at various projects. FY19 Landcom and Welcome Dinner Project partnership Inclusive Places piloted, focused on connecting people, reducing social isolation, and supporting positive mental health outcomes. FY19 we launched LifeStreet as our preferred Employee Assistance Program focused on whole of life support to the individual. Goal 4: Ensure inclusive and Landcom believes that equitable access to education Productive quality education for all and and opportunities is an important part of delivering our promote lifelong learning communities. We address this through our targets and Places programs/activities offered at our projects. Target: By 2030, substantially Productive Places Targets increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant Projects to engage and foster education, learning or skills, including technical employment outcomes via activities or initiatives, based on and vocational skills, for identified needs of the local and regional community. employment, decent jobs and Activities entrepreneurship FY19 Landcom Skills Exchange, offered at two communities to support at risk secondary school students, and long-term Accountable & unemployed people, to engage in meaningful learning, skills development and/or employment. Collaborative Places Goal 5: Achieve gender Landcom is committed to diversity and inclusion, including equality and empower all the engagement of women and girls. women and girls Healthy & Inclusive Places Priority Target: Ensure women’s full Identify opportunities to positively impact diversity, and effective participation inclusion and accessibility. and equal opportunities for Activities Appendices leadership at all levels of FY19 Landcom adopted its Diversity & Inclusion Policy, and decision making in political, established a staff led Diversity & Inclusion working group. economic and public life FY19 Sustainability Report 57 SDG Goal & Target Landcom Response Goal 6: Ensure access to Landcom recognises that water scarcity and drought is water and sanitation for all an increasing issue for Australia. We are committed to enhancing the efficiency, reducing the unnecessary use of Target: By 2030, substantially potable water, and ensuring water quality is not negatively increase water-use efficiency impacted by our activities or the communities we build. across all sectors and ensure Climate Resilient Places Targets sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater Achieve water positive communities by 2028. to address water scarcity All projects modelled to reduce mains potable water demand and substantially reduce the by 50% at the precinct scale against a 2016 reference case. number of people suffering from water scarcity BASIX 60 water target for all new dwellings within our development control. Water Sensitive Urban Design strategy for all projects, pollutant discharge loads not to exceed Nitrogen 45, Phosphorus 65, Suspended Solids 85, Gross Pollutants 90. Goal 7: Ensure access Australia is privileged to have reliable energy sources, to affordable, reliable, therefore Landcom’s focus is on enhancing efficiency, sustainable and modern improving cost of living, and increasing the use of renewables. energy for all Climate Resilient Places Targets Target: By 2030, increase 5% of predicted energy demand supplied from onsite substantially the share of renewable energy, where site constraints permit renewable energy in the All new projects modelled to reduce Greenhouse Gas global energy mix (GHG) emissions at a precinct scale (transport and stationary) by 50% against 2016 reference case (CCAP PRECINX modelling). Activities Landcom’s Sustainability Rebate for home owners was rolled out to Macarthur Heights in FY19. Goal 8: Promote inclusive Landcom aims to support the Greater Sydney Commission and sustainable economic objective to achieve a 30 minute city. We are focused on growth, employment and ensuring land use diversity across our projects to promote decent work for all jobs close to homes. We are also committed to identify any risks of modern Target: Take immediate slavery or human rights infringements within our and effective measures to operations or supply chain, and take action. eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human Productive Places Targets trafficking and secure the Enable 30,000 enduring jobs by 2036. prohibition and elimination of the worst forms of child Accountable & Collaborative Priorities labour, including recruitment Develop an approach to human rights with consideration and use of child soldiers, for modern slavery. and by 2025 end child Activities labour in all its forms In FY19 Landcom became a Participant to the United Nations Global Compact, committing to embed the 10 Principles in our operations. We also completed a Human Rights Salience Assessment, prioritising our three human rights focus areas for FY20. 58 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview SDG Goal & Target Landcom Response Goal 9: Build resilient Landcom is committed to delivering and enabling infrastructure, promote resilient infrastructure and communities. We address sustainable industrialization this through our Climate Resilient Places targets, such and foster innovation as mandating resilience risk assessments and adaptation plans, adopting independent rating tools and pushing for Target: Develop quality, highly efficient buildings. reliable, sustainable and Climate Climate Resilient Places Targets resilient infrastructure, including regional and All projects will adopt the use industry recognized rating transborder infrastructure, tools at a masterplan and built form scale, achieving not less Resilient Places to support economic than ‘Australian Best Practice’ equivalent. development and human Above standard NABERS and BASIX building ratings. wellbeing, with a focus on affordable and equitable All projects to prepare and implement an effective Climate access for all Change Adaptation Plan; and Community Resilience Plan. Productive Places Targets All new greenfield or regional communities provide electric Healthy & vehicle chargers to service a minimum 10% total dwellings as either publicly accessible or for private use. All new urban renewal or high density communities provide Inclusive Places a minimum 10% parking yield, per parking lot, as electric vehicle charge station ‘turn-key’ ready at development completion. All key open spaces to have free wifi. Activities FY18-19 we partnered with Sustainability Advantage (NSW Productive Office of Environment and Heritage) to identify ways we can advance the provision of EVs across our existing projects, Places and drive the uptake of EVs by residents of our communities. Accountable & Collaborative Places Appendices FY19 Sustainability Report 59 SDG Goal & Target Landcom Response Goal 10: Reduce inequality We are focused on ensuring equity and inclusion across the within and among countries communities we are delivering, which is why we measure satisfaction with quality of life from our residents through our Target: By 2030, empower Healthy & Inclusive Places Survey. This information helps us and promote the social, identify areas to improve the social and economic inclusion economic and political of all members in our communities. inclusion of all, irrespective Healthy & Inclusive Places Target of age, sex, disability, race, ethnicity, origin, religion or Achieve 90% resident satisfaction with quality of life, as economic or other status measured by the Personal Wellbeing Index.48 Healthy & Inclusive Places Priority Identify opportunities to positively impact diversity, inclusion and accessibility. Activities FY19 Landcom adopted its Diversity & Inclusion Policy, and established a staff led Diversity & Inclusion working group. FY19 Landcom Community Development programs for a broad range of interests and needs, offered at various projects. FY19 Landcom and Welcome Dinner Project delivered at Thornton, focused on connecting people, reducing social isolation, and supporting positive mental health outcomes. Productive Places Targets Measure and report annual investment in research and development supporting our strategy principles of fostering a sustainable environment, driving social equity, enabling an innovative economy and advancing responsible governance. Projects to engage and foster education, learning or employment outcomes, based on identified needs of the local and regional community. Activities Engaged over 700 students across our Skills Exchange, research and excursion programs. 48 Personal Wellbeing Index, Deakin University & Australian Unity (2017) australianunity.com.au/.../wellbeing%20index/wellbeing%20index%2020 60 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview SDG Goal & Target Landcom Response Goal 11: Make cities inclusive, Landcom’s objective is to deliver affordable and sustainable safe, resilient and sustainable communities. We do this through our commitments to sustainability, housing affordability and diversity, and Target: By 2030, ensure the provision of parks and open spaces throughout our access for all to adequate, communities – that are safe and equitable. safe and affordable housing Healthy & Inclusive Places Targets and basic services Climate Deliver 5-10% Affordable Housing across the Target: By 2030, provide Landcom portfolio. universal access to safe, Resilient Places Deliver 10-15% diverse housing across our portfolio. inclusive and accessible, green and public spaces, in 20% of medium to high density dwellings within all new particular for women and projects are achieve Livable Housing Australia Silver children, older persons and Certification (or equivalent). persons with disabilities Achieve a culture of safety throughout our organisation and on all Landcom projects, striving to achieve 90% overall community safety score at our projects. Healthy & Activities Participated in the creation of Everyone Can Play a NSW government initiative to develop a suite of indicators for Inclusive Places inclusive play spaces. Commenced an audit of existing Landcom project parks for their achievement against the Everyone Can Play guidelines to help inform areas for improvement. Climate Resilient Places Targets 20-50% of the total project site area, in plan view, is Productive comprised of building or landscape elements that reduce the impact of urban heat island effect. Places Goal 12: Ensure sustainable Landcom has maintained a waste diversity from landfill consumption and target for many years. We continue to see our most production patterns material contribution to the SDG as ensuring unnecessary construction waste does not end up in landfill, but is recycled Target: By 2030, or reused. substantially reduce Climate Resilient Places Targets waste generation through prevention, reduction, All new projects divert minimum 95% construction waste Accountable & recycling and reuse from landfill (excluding contamination or hazardous materials). 100% timber used in construction is FSC certified (or equivalent). Goal 13: Take urgent action to Landcom developed the Sustainable Places Strategy with Collaborative Places combat climate change and the SDGs and Paris Agreement at front of mind. Our entire its impacts Strategy is focused on combatting climate change and its impacts, and building community resilience to climate Target: Strengthen induced shocks and stresses. Appendices resilience and adaptive Climate Resilient Places Targets capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters All targets found in this pillar of Landcom’s Sustainable in all countries Places Strategy. Activities Collaboration with the CRC for Low Carbon Living to develop an urban heat island mitigation tool. FY19 Sustainability Report 61 SDG Goal & Target Landcom Response Goal 14: Conserve and Climate Resilient Places Targets sustainably use the oceans, Water Sensitive Urban Design strategy for all projects, seas and marine resources pollutant discharge loads not to exceed Nitrogen 45, Phosphorus 65, Suspended Solids 85, Gross Pollutants 90. Target: By 2025, prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land-based activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollution Goal 15: Sustainably One of Landcom’s leadership goals is to ensure net positive manage forests, combat ecological outcomes across our portfolio. We address this desertification, halt and through the conservation or enhancement of biodiversity reverse land degradation, halt and ecological communities at our projects, and encouraging biodiversity loss responsible materials sourcing in our supply chain. Target: Take urgent and Climate Resilient Places significant action to All new projects enhance the local habitat, biodiversity or reduce the degradation ecological communities, compared to the site conditions of natural habitats, halt pre-development. the loss of biodiversity and, by 2020, protect and 100% timber used in construction is FSC certified prevent the extinction of (or equivalent). threatened species Activities Continued our partnership with the Sustainability Supply Chain School, and plan to make online training and resources available to staff in FY20. Goal 16: Promote just, Landcom seeks to advance inclusion and participation peaceful and inclusive within and across communities through our Community societies Development and Welcome Programs, by sourcing data through our Healthy & Inclusive Places Survey, and between Target: Ensure responsive, staff within our organisation. inclusive, participatory and representative decisionHealthy & Inclusive Places Targets making at all levels Achieve 90% resident reported community cohesion across all new projects, by fostering the integration of community networks and facilities. Healthy & Inclusive Places Priorities Identify opportunities to positively impact diversity, inclusion and accessibility. Accountable & Collaborative Places Priority Develop an approach to Human Rights with consideration for Modern Slavery. Activities In FY19 Landcom became a Participant to the United Nations Global Compact, committing to embed the 10 Principles in our operations. We also completed a Human Rights Salience Assessment, prioritising our three human rights focus areas for FY20. 62 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview SDG Goal & Target Landcom Response Goal 17: Revitalize the Landcom is committed to promoting effective public, global partnership for public-private and civil society partnerships and sustainable development engagement. Our main framework to support this is our Join In Framework, aligned with the IAP2 principles, and Target: Encourage and dedicated to meaningful engagement. promote effective public, public-private and civil Healthy & Inclusive Places Targets Climate society partnerships, All new projects to conform to the community engagement building on the experience policy, Join In Framework, aligned to industry best practice and resourcing strategies for stakeholder engagement practice. Resilient Places of partnerships Accountable & Collaborative Places Priority Work with industry to upskill our supply chain on sustainability issues (eg. through partnership with Supply Chain Sustainability School). Activities We also continued our partnership with the Sustainability Healthy & Supply Chain School, and plan to make online training and resources available to staff in FY20. Inclusive Places Productive Places Accountable & Collaborative Places Appendices FY19 Sustainability Report 63 Appendix C: GRI Content Index GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Location or comment 102-01 Name of the organisation FY19 Annual Report, Our Organisation 102-02 Activities, brands, products FY19 Annual Report, Our Organisation and services 102-03 Location of headquarters Reporting Boundaries 102-04 Location of operations Reporting Boundaries 102-05 Ownership and legal form FY19 Annual Report, Our Organisation 102-06 Market served FY19 Annual Report, Our Principle Objectives and Function 102-07 Scale of organisation FY19 Annual Report, Chair’s Review, Project Map and Other Highlights 102-08 Information on employees and Female Male Total other workers Staff numbers 78 77 155 Full-Time 69 76 145 Part-Time 9 1 10 Award Staff 62 49 111 Senior Management 16 28 4 Contract Award Staff Full-Time 55 49 104 Part-Time 7 0 7 Permanent 57 43 100 Term 5 6 11 Senior Management Contract Full-Time 14 27 41 Part-Time 2 1 3 Location Parramatta 77 74 151 Other 1 3 4 102-09 Supply chain Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview Supply Chain Supply Chain Performance Results Upskill Our Supply Chain UN Global Compact Ten Principles 64 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview 102-10 Significant changes to the In FY19 Landcom had no significant changes to organisation and its supply the organisation size, structure, ownership or chain supply chain. 102-11 Precautionary principle or Landcom’s approach to Environmental Management approach can be seen at: https://www.landcom.com.au/assets/ Principle 7 Downloads/sustainability/54b56f8418/approach-toenvironmental-management.pdf Climate 102-12 External initiatives FY19 Annual Report, Chairs Review Resilient Places Landcom also highlights its alignment with external initiatives such as the Paris Agreement, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, United Nations Global Compact within this report, at Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview and Accountability Performance Results. 102-13 Membership of associations Landcom’s main industry memberships include Healthy & Green Building Council of Australia, Property Council of Australia, Master Builders Association, Urban Taskforce Australia, Urban Development Institute Inclusive Places of Australia, Corporate Club of Australia, and Committee for Economic Development of Australia. 102-14 Statement from senior decisionMessage from the CEO maker 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Appendix D: Stakeholders Productive 102-41 Collective bargaining 100% of Landcom staff are covered by the Landcom Places agreements Award Principle 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting Design through Engagement stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder Design through Engagement engagement Appendix D: Stakeholders 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Appendix D: Stakeholders Accountable & Collaborative Places 102-45 Entities included in the FY19 Annual Report, Statement of Financial Position consolidated financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and Reporting Boundaries topic boundaries Appendices 102-47 List of material topics Material Matters 102-48 Restatement of information Any re-statements are indicated using footnotes in the report 102-49 Changes in reporting About This Report FY19 Sustainability Report 65 102-50 Reporting period About This Report 102-51 Data of most recent report FY18 Sustainability Report can be found at: https://www.landcom.com.au/assets/Downloads/ sustainability/efc46210dd/2018-sustainability-report. pdf 102-52 Reporting cycle About This Report 102-53 Contact point for questions Landcom website ‘Contact Us’ regarding the report 102-54 Claims for reporting in About This Report accordance with the GRI 102-55 GRI content index Appendix C: GRI Reporting Initiative Index GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Location or comment 103-1 Explanation of the material About This Report topic and its boundary 103-2 The management approach and About This Report its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management About This Report approach GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 Location or comment 201-1 Direct economic value FY19 Annual Report, including: generated and distributed • Chair’s Review • FY19 Economic and Financial Highlights • Financial Tables and Notes Note: all operations are within Australia. 201-2 Financial implications and other Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview risks and opportunities due to climate change 203-2 Significant indirect economic Productive Places Overview impacts Training & Employment Performance Results GRI 301: Materials 2016 Location or comment 301-1 Materials used by weight or Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview volume Principles 8 & 9 Waste & Materials Performance Results 301-2 Recycled input materials used Principles 8 & 9 66 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview GRI 302: Energy 2016 Location or comment 302-4 Reduction of energy Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview consumption Principles 8 & 9 NSW Government Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP) Energy & Emissions Performance Results 302-5 Reduction in energy consumption of products and Principles 8 & 9 Climate services GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2016 Location or comment Resilient Places 303-1 Interactions with water as a Landcom has an indirect relationship with water. The Principles 8 & 9 shared resource greatest impact our developments will have is on the future use by those who live, work and do business in the community once we have delivered it. We 303-2 Management of water do not directly withdraw, consume or discharge discharge-related impacts water. This is why our targets focus on designing Principles 8 & 9 Healthy & communities that will have low consumption by users, with forecast runoff meeting low impact pollutant loads. Inclusive Places To see how we established all of our targets, visit: https://www.landcom.com.au/approach/ sustainability/the-journey/ Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Energy & Emissions and Water Water Performance Results Productive GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Location or comment Places 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Principles 8 & 9 Climate & Resilience Climate & Resilience Performance Results Biodiversity GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Location or comment 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions NSW Government Resource Efficiency Policy (GREP) Accountable & Principles 8 & 9 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) Collaborative Places GHG emissions 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) Landcom’s most material Scope 3 emissions GHG emissions will come from the communities we create, Appendices once operational. We seek to reduce the future operational GHG emissions of these communities through the adoption of emissions reduction targets. Climate Resilient Places Pillar Overview Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction FY19 Sustainability Report 67 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Location or comment 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies Board Diversity: 50:50 gender balance, all members Principle 6 and employees over the age of 50 years. Executive Diversity: 60:40 male to female ratio, with 87% 30-50 years and 13% over 50 years. Senior Management Contract Diversity: 61:39 male to female ratio, with 74% 30-50 years, and 26% over 50 years. Award Staff Diversity: 43:57 male to female ratio, with 14% under 30 years, 64% 30-50 years, and 22% over 50 years. 1% of Award Staff identify as Aboriginal/Torres Strait Islander, with 32% identifying as a Minority Group and 10% with disability. Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview Accountability Performance Results GRI 408: Child Labour 2016 Location or comment 408-1 Operations and suppliers at Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview Principle 5 significant risk for incidents of Accountability Performance Results child labour GRI 409: Forced and Compulsory Labour 2016 Location or comment 409-1 Operations and suppliers at Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview significant risk for incidents of Principle 4 Accountability Performance Results forced or compulsory labour GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 Location or comment 412-1 Operations that have been Accountable & Collaborative Places Overview Principles 1 & 2 subject to human rights reviews Accountability Performance Results or impact assessments GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Location or comment 413-1 Operations with local Healthy & Inclusive Places Pillar Overview community engagement, impact Health, Equity & Inclusion, Community assessments, and development Connection, & Safety Performance Results programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 68 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview GRI 415: Public Policy Location or comment 415-1 Political contributions As a government organisation Landcom is prohibited from making political contributions. Principle 10 Landcom acknowledges fraud and corruption management is part of good governance and management practice. We provide access to report Climate allegations of possible fraudulent or corrupt conduct via our website, see ‘Government conduct, right to information’ at https://www.landcom.com.au/ Resilient Places faq/#faq-34 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety Location or comment 416-1 Assessment of the health and Healthy & Inclusive Places Pillar Overview safety impacts of product and service categories Healthy & Inclusive Places Productive Places Accountable & Collaborative Places Appendices FY19 Sustainability Report 69 Appendix D: Stakeholders Stakeholders Consultation method Topics State Members of Parliament Presentations and briefings Priorities and coordination Site visits and tours Timeframes Program milestones Federal MPs and agencies, Telephone and emails Environment Protection and including: Department of Biodiversity Conservation Site visits and tours Environment & Energy, conditions Department of Foreign Affairs Presentations and briefings Management of Military Heritage and Trade Precinct State agencies, including: Meetings and briefings Whole of government coordination of investment decisions and Department of Premier and Workshops delivery Cabinet Telephone and emails Development of plans for precinct Greater Sydney Commission Seminars Sustainability Strategy development NSW Treasury Ongoing project liaison including and adoptions Department of Planning, through Multi-Agency Steering Collaboration in accordance with Industry and Environment Groups, Program Advisory Boards, agreed frameworks Program Control Groups and Office of Environment and working groups Access to buildings/land Heritage Industry forums Leases and engagement with Transport for NSW tenants Site tours and meetings Roads and Maritime Services Repurposing of heritage buildings CEOs Reference Group Heritage Council Coordinate transport management Office of Strategic Lands and infrastructure Hunter and Central Coast Specific discussion of projects, Development Corporation components and progress against milestones and objectives Trade and Investment Voluntary Planning Agreement and Office of the Government modifications to existing approvals Architect Regional Park embellishment and Department of Education use Property NSW Provide service crossings to service Infrastructure NSW land TAFE NSW Title production Utilities 70 FY19 Sustainability Report Overview Stakeholders Consultation method Topics Councillors and local Meetings, briefings and Ongoing consultation with Council government staff presentations Coordination with Council projects Telephone, emails and letters Statutory planning approvals, Workshops including: Development Control Plans, Town centre Development Ongoing project liaison including Applications and Voluntary Climate through Project Coordination, Planning Agreement Reference and working groups Coordinate transport management Asset inspections Resilient Places and infrastructure Management of community impacts, placemaking and community development issues Resolve design and delivery issues Negotiate subdivision Healthy & Council asset handovers Development commencement, progress, access, road closures, Inclusive Places street name changes Land acquisition and asset handovers Local community groups Meetings and presentations Development of plans for precinct Telephone and emails Impacts on local infrastructure and properties Ongoing project liaison including through Community Advisory Opportunities for community input Productive Panels Reference Groups into studies Places Attendance at Community Group Provision of active recreational Meetings Ongoing liaison through facilities Reference Groups Adaptive reuse to secure long term management and ownership Industry groups and businesses Presentations/talks at industry Development of plans for precinct events such as business breakfasts, Interest in development and other conferences, briefings Accountable & opportunities Advertising Impacts on working harbour Media releases Impacts on lease arrangements and Collaborative Places Presentations to industry groups planning certainty and conferences Commercial outcomes Presentations at events Servicing schedule and progress Meetings and briefings Maintain working relationships Workshops Negotiating access for works Appendices On site meetings and tours Telephone, emails and letters FY19 Sustainability Report 71 Stakeholders Consultation method Topics Department of Education, University Collaboration Agreement Development of plans for precinct Catholic Education Office, Landcom’s Roundtable and Access to teaching materials and Schools and Universities Communities of Practice project information Telephone, emails and letters Facilitating schools precincts Surveys Maximising shared use of school buildings Fieldwork programs Shared use of open space Liaison with school principal Design, heritage and other aspects Ongoing project liaison including of existing spaces through Project Control Group meetings Access to buildings/land Meetings with academics Lectures, presentations and tours as part of course Indigenous groups Aboriginal Cultural Heritage Liaison Coordinate pre-construction Committee meetings activities Design of Aboriginal cultural heritage areas Other indigenous matters Media – TV news, radio and Interviews Development and progress of plans newspaper for precinct Social media updates Opportunity to explain balanced Ministerial updates outcomes at projects Media releases 72 FY19 Sustainability Report Climate Healthy & Productive Accountable & Overview Resilient Places Inclusive Places Places Collaborative Places Appendices 73 FY19 Sustainability Report
