Communication on Progress C.O.P 2019 CONTENTS CEO’s statement 2 Human Rights Principles 3 Labour Principles 5 Environmental Principles 7 Anti-Corruption Principles 9 1 CEO’S STATEMENT November 18, 2019 To our stakeholders and the general public: I am pleased to confirm that ES-KO reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this second annual Communication on Progress, we describe like previously our efforts to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Michael Anthony Masters Chief Executive Officer ES-KO International SAM 2 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and that they have the right to participate in the respect the protection of internationally organization of their work making suggestions to improve productivity and health and safety proclaimed human rights; and conditions, that their voices will be heard if they have cause for complaint in respect of their working Principle 2: Make sure that they are not conditions and the way they are treated. complicit in human rights abuses. Perhaps the most important control measure we have put in place is that of adopting the SA 8000 Social Responsibility Standard which requires a qualified third party to audit our practices and assist Assessment, policy and goals with identifying areas of potential nonconformance. ES-KO’s activities providing logistics support services around the globe bring us into contact with Externally, ES-KO’s procedures seek to ensure that a myriad of cultures making it especially important suppliers share our respect for the Universal for us to provide leadership in the respect of human Declaration of Human Rights and adopt similar rights both within the organization and externally measures to assure the declaration’s principles are towards suppliers and service providers that we adhered to within their own organizations and deal with. those of their sub-suppliers. ES-KO’s procedures are With this in mind, our Integrated Management designed to shape our supply chain to exclude System Policy (IMSP) reflects the principles subjects unwilling to support our values in this expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human respect. Rights to which we unreservedly subscribe. We believe these principles are fundamental to the ES-KO’s goals are to remain a first-class employer Company’s success as respect for them not only and promote respect for the rights of all individuals makes ES-KO a better employer but they make employed in any connection to the services we better individuals of every ES-KO employee. provide. We hope that by demonstrating our virtuousness and the positive outcome of our Application of ES-KO’s IMSP to its everyday policies, we can influence others and contribute in activities has been subjected to a careful risk a tangible way to better working conditions for assessment leading to procedures and control everyone. measures to ensure those procedures are adhered to. Of particular importance is the training that we provide on an on-going basis to all our staff and Implementation induction training provided to newcomers. ES-KO’s objectives are to provide services that meet The effectiveness of those control measures is the expectations of our Customers while evaluated continually and corrections are made if performing activities in complete compliance with these appear necessary. ES-KO’s internal mandatory requirements and the requirements of procedures ensure that all employees enjoy the the standards that we have voluntarily adopted. right to association, to organize and bargain Our Integrated Management System (IMS) collectively, to receive equal pay for equal work and combines standards for Quality Management (ISO that their access to specific job roles is governed by 9001), Environmental Management (ISO 14001), their competence and attitude, regardless of their Food Safety (ISO 22000), Health and Safety (OHSAS ethnicity gender, or religion. 18001) and Social Responsibility (SA 8000). The policies ensure that the Company does not employ minors, that no one is forced to remain The IMS includes procedures designed to ensure under employment with Company against their will, compliance with the above requirements. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Control measures and methods of measuring Team-building activities are encouraged and compliance assure us that this is the case and funded so that employees form bonds that increase corrective actions are swiftly implemented mutual respect and reduce the risk of irregularities. whenever non-compliance is detected. Externally, ES-KO assesses its suppliers and partners The procedures, control measures and methods of to evaluate their practices. Our preferred suppliers measurement are reviewed not only when nonare those that have adopted voluntary standards compliance happens but also whenever there similar to the above and whose certification appears to be the potential for non-compliance or demonstrates compliance. when changes to requirements happen. ES-KO’s internal auditors are trained to observe application of appropriate practices in all areas The IMS and all of its elements are available to staff when visiting suppliers or performing audits of their through ES-KO’s Intranet site. facilities. Staff are trained from the beginning of and Businesses should support and respect the throughout their careers in the Company to assure protection of internationally-proclaimed human awareness, conscientiousness and knowledge of rights”. ES-KO is committed to an increased our objectives and the methodology employed to protection of personal privacy in relation to the reach them. processing of personal data, in compliance with the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Art. 12 Staff are informed through email alerts whenever a provides that “No one shall be subjected to change is made to the IMS procedures and arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home documentation and re-training is performed or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honor whenever necessary. and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or Staff participation in the organization of their work attacks”. By implementing the EU General Data is encouraged and mechanisms exist to allow them Protection Regulation 2016/679 (GDPR) even when to put forward their suggestions or report not legally obliged to do so, ES-KO is increasing is irregularities that affect their performance and commitment to ensure adequate protection of well-being. These mechanisms rely on suggestion privacy for people/individuals outside of the boxes and an email address that staff can write to European Union. in full discretion. – to report their grievances. The Human Resources Office is also available to all employees for a more direct contact. Measurement of outcomes ES-KO takes particular pride in the training provided to employees, training that not only teaches them In matters of compliance with mandatory how to perform their duties but how to act in the requirements, ES-KO has not been subjected to any workplace in respect of their own dignity and that investigations or legal actions. of all colleagues, customers, subcontractors All our operating licenses and permits are current working on site, suppliers and the environment. and valid. Statutory inspections by competent authorities have not produced any observations or Disciplinary practices always aim to correct an revealed any non-conformities. Staff have not individual’s behaviour before applying sanctions in reported any irregularities in respect of the respect of irregularities. requirements of SA 8000 either through the suggestion boxes or the dedicated email address or directly to the Human Resources Office. 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the address this possibility and ensure that only those suppliers whose entire workforce is composed of freedom of association and the effective workers above the legal age for employment are recognition of the right to collective selected for inclusion in our list of Qualified bargaining; Suppliers. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of ES-KO does not tolerate discrimination on any basis, whether race or gender, religion, sexual forced and compulsory labour; orientation, views on Trade Unions, age or physical disabilities. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Our assessment of the related risks concludes that ES-KO as an organization does not afford any room for discriminating behaviour. Principle 6: The elimination of However, in a multi-ethnical workforce, where discrimination in respect of employment people of many different cultures come together, and occupation Assessment, Policy and the potential for discrimination certainly exists Goals. among the workers themselves. This risk is included in our assessment and appropriate measures are in place to prevent it. Assessment ES-KO operates in many countries worldwide Policy including some where trade unions are uncommon or even discouraged. As a result, it is necessary to ES-KO’s Integrated Policy – at the heart of our ensure workers are aware of their rights as set out Integrated Management System has clear in the International Labour Organization’s statements concerning our commitment to respect Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at the work rights of our employees, upholding their Work and reassure them of the Company’s support freedom of association, their right to establish their for these principles. own organizations and carry out related activities without interference, to receive fair compensation While there are no cases of forced labour in ES-KO’s and benefits and to ensure that they are not organization, we do realise that this may not always discriminated against and have equal opportunities be the case externally. This makes it essential to to access positions within the organization. assess the practices of our suppliers with care, selecting only those whose workforce is free of any The Integrated Policy also reaffirms ES-KO’s such constraints. Internally, it is appropriate to commitment to ensure the absence of child labour ensure workers are suited to the tasks assigned to and forced labour practices in the organization. them and motivated to perform well so that they do not feel compelled to work against their will. Goals Suitable control measures at the time of hiring ES-KO’s goals in matters of labour rights are to eliminate the risk of employing people under the maintain our position of leadership as a fair working age by mistake. Again, this may not be the employer, to continue providing our employees case externally especially in small family-run with a work environment in which their rights are businesses. Supplier assessment must therefore upheld and protected and their hard work and 5 LABOUR PRINCIPLES dedication rewarded, and to demonstrate The appointment of the person in charge is externally that the Company’s practices lead to a communicated to all employees by internal memo satisfied, motivated and productive workforce in every year. order to influence others and contribute to the promotion of worker rights and the adoption of Further to the above, ES-KO’s Human Resources similar practices throughout our supply chain. Office is available at all times to receive reports and employees know they are welcome to use this A further – and constant goal is to follow and channel if they so prefer. where possible remain ahead of developments in the field of labour rights for the benefit of all our Externally, ES-KO’s trained auditors observe employees who are ultimately responsible for ESpractices being followed at the suppliers they visit to KO’s success. perform audits and inspections and report possible irregularities to the Risk Manager who would ensure appropriate action is taken either to persuade the supplier to correct the irregularity or amend the list Implementation of Qualified Suppliers if necessary. Suppliers are provided with a questionnaire to be compiled during ES-KO’s Policy is supported by procedures, control the Supplier assessment process and the measures and methods of measurement that information is verified whenever it is practical for us represent the tools needed for its implementation to do this. and to ensure compliance with our stated aims. The questionnaire will be updated should there be The Integrated Policy is distributed to all employees any changes to the expectations in respect of by email and is made available in a printed format workers’ rights and re-submitted to suppliers so in all places of work and is freely available for that the information available to continual consultation on the company’s intranet. assessment of suppliers is correct and up-to-date. Properly informed of their rights, employees are encouraged to report any irregularities that they may encounter, whether they affect them or their Measurement of Outcomes co-workers, and four tools are provided to this end. Internal audits are performed at least annually and Firstly, employees can use suggestion boxes to with greater frequency if warranted by the results provide reports, suggestions and comments. of monitoring the performance of our Integrated Reports can be provided anonymously. Management System. Secondly, ES-KO provides a dedicated email address The results of internal and external audits, workers’ that employees can use to address any particular input received through the suggestion concerns or suggestions they might have. box/email/Human Resources Office and information related to the continual assessment of Thirdly, in compliance with ES-KO’s strict policy suppliers are collated and presented to ES-KO’s against all types of workplace harassment Senior Management at the time of the annual (including harassment on the basis of ethnicity, Management Review during which objectives are religion, nationality, sex, gender, sexual orientation modified if necessary, to ensure continual and physical or mental disability) and as a further improvement in all areas of the organization measure to guarantee the well-being of all including those covered in this chapter. employees, ES-KO has nominated a person in charge of dealing with harassment and violence in To date no cases of harassment have been the workplace. reported. 6 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a Policy precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Our environment-related policy is contained in our Integrated Management System Policy and it sets out our commitment to orientate the Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to Company’s processes towards solutions of promote greater environmental greater respect for the environment, limiting the responsibility; and consumption of energy and natural resources. Principle 9: Encourage the development Our policy is also to develop control systems that measure negative impacts on the environment, so and diffusion of environmentally friendly that mitigation measures can be studied and technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals implemented, and to promote the professional growth of our collaborators through training Assessment programs. ES-KO performs a careful assessment of all risks Goals posed by every aspect of our activities and risks to the environment are no exception. ES-KO’s objectives are:  to reduce as far as possible the impacts that While we do not perform any heavy industrial our activities have when it is not possible to type of activity, we recognize that the very eliminate them altogether; presence of an operation such as the ones ES-KO  to train staff not just in working practices manages (food supply, catering, camp that achieve this but to educate them so that they construction and services) impacts the are conscious of the need to protect the environment in which it is located. environment in and around the places where they work and live; ES-KO is certified to the ISO 14001 Standard for its  to develop sustainable models for the design Headquarters where support to the operations and provision of our services; takes place and is subjected to annual audits by  to develop and update risk assessment an Accredited Third-Party Certification Body. criteria to augment the effectiveness of environmental safeguards. Risks associated to day-to-day operations are assessed with particular focus on transport activities and waste management as areas of Implementation greater risk at the operations level. Implementation of our Environmental policy is Office type activities can also create risks for the achieved through appropriate procedures environment and these too are assessed both in included in our Integrated Management System project operations and at Headquarters. and begins at the service design stage when correctly orientated processes and appropriate Risk assessment includes not just the impacts control measures are established. deriving from operations but also those from Our Technical Staff monitor advances in human behaviour, the way employees interact technology and evaluate the effectiveness with the environment. provided by new materials, innovative 7 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES construction techniques and ways of re-cycling The center will provide training in first aid at a waste. Innovations are applied to existing projects national level and throughout the West African subwhere practical and incorporated into future region. The inauguration of the new center, handed designs of projects and services together with the over to the Red Cross Burkinabe, was held recently results of an assessment of the effectiveness of by HSH Prince Albert II and Princess Charlene, existing mitigation measures. together with the Red Cross Executive Committee. Convinced that “every little bit counts”, we ES-KO, together with 64 other companies in encourage staff to “go green” and provide them Monaco, is a signatory to the Charter on Wood , a with the information they need to do this. We partnership to fight against deforestation involving minimize paper usage in the office, for example by the Government of Monaco and the Prince Albert II establishing communication groups which reduces of Monaco Foundation. In recognition of its the need to distribute printed information and we contribution and great support, in December 2018 encourage employees to correspond and ES-KO was awarded the 2018 Prize by H.E. Bernard communicate via email. FAUTRIER, CEO of the Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation . We operate waste separation and re-cycling schemes, encourage turning lights off when Measurement of outcomes vacating a room and setting air conditioning and heating equipment to work only during working hours and at appropriate levels. ES-KO maintains an efficient procedure through which all workplace incidents, including those that The Human Resources Office and the Social have impacts on the environment, are reported. Responsibility Team – established in accordance with our SA 8000 certification – issue frequent Each incident is investigated to establish root emails reminding staff of their responsibilities causes and effective control measures and a towards the environment and providing helpful tips periodical analysis of statistics is performed to to ‘go even greener’. identify trends and take appropriate steps to reinforce control measures and improve the overall ES-KO participated in “Trees for Water”, a new system. environmental initiative led by the ‘’Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation’’ launched to fight against Periodical audits of our projects are carried out by deforestation and climate change. our qualified internal auditors using the The concept of this initiative, supported by our environmental Management Section of our Board of Directors, consists in planting trees in Integrated Management System. This provides India. Our contribution has been very strong and in internal auditors with the tools needed to perform recognition of the participation of staff and because a thorough verification of compliance with its of the importance of the initiative, the Board of requirements. Directors decided to multiply by 5 the number of trees planted by staff. Internal and external audits have not revealed any non-conformities concerning Environmental ES-KO was selected for the conception and the Management. ES-KO has not had any construction of the Principality of Monaco’s environmental incidents within the last year and pavilion for the Universal Exposition «EXPO Milan has not been subject to any statutory notices or 2015» held from May to October 2015 in Italy. prosecutions. Unique among all the participants, ES-KO proposed a pavilion that could be re-purposed and the whole Once a year, statistics are extracted from the multi-complex structure was Incident Report Log together with the results of dismantled and re-deployed in Burkina Faso. 85% of audits and presented to Senior Management for the the pavilion functions have been retained and the annual Management Review. building meets the HQE (High Environmental Senior Management uses this process to verify the Quality). effectiveness of the Integrated Management System and to make any changes to it or to the Company’s objectives in line with their findings. 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE Principle 10: Businesses should work Our Integrated Management System includes against corruption in all its forms, several policies concerning the ethical conduct of including extortion and bribery. our activities: Assessment  Authority Levels;  Employee Code of Conduct and Ethics; Corruption is certainly a potential problem  ES-KO Code of Business Conduct; affecting the geographical areas in which ES-KO  Local Procurement; and, operates.  Procurement Ethical Code. According to Transparency International, the average 2017 Corruption Perceptions Index score Authority Levels determine limits within which of the countries in which ES-KO’s major each employee may bind the Company to an operations are located was less than 30 (where 0 obligation, whether payments (purchases, signifies highly corrupt and 100 is very clean). funding, advances, personal expenses etc.), execution of contracts (RFPs, bids, performance A careful assessment of the potential risk involved bonds, contracts and contract amendments) or in working in these countries is therefore of great other obligations (letters of intent, importance as are a robust anti-corruption policy, memorandums of understanding, provision of anti-bribery management and fostering an antiservices not covered by a proper contract). bribery culture within the organization. The Employee Code of Conduct and Ethics, to Assessment looks at opportunities for bribes which every employee subscribes, ensures that being sought by officials, by customers, by business conduct is free from conflicts of interest suppliers and contractors and by the Company’s whether real or perceived and that assets, own staff. whether ES-KO’s or the Customer’s, are not used inappropriately. Opportunities may arise in several areas such as trading influence, abuse of powers, It requires employees to avoid illegal conduct in their business and private lives and to protect the Company’s reputation in all their dealings. Policy It makes clear that money, gifts of more than ES-KO has a zero-tolerance policy in respect of nominal value and hospitality beyond what would corruption in any form and we are committed to be normal may not be given to customers, upholding all relevant laws and supporting competitors or suppliers to favour either ES-KO or regional and international anti-corruption legal the employees themselves. It ensures that frameworks, such as the United Nations company files, records and other information are Convention Against Corruption, the OECD Antikept confidential and protected from Bribery Convention inter alia. unauthorized access. 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE The ES-KO Code of Business Conduct binds all record-keeping and internal and external employees to complying with the spirit of oversight. applicable laws and regulations governing the conduct of ES-KO’s business. We are committed to fighting corruption in all of its It makes clear that ES-KO will never pay or forms and to do business with the highest sense of condone the payment of bribes or other improper transparency and integrity. We do not accept payments. bribery or corruption in any form. Therefore, ESKO It leads employees to promote a culture in which ethical conduct is recognised, valued and is working for 2020 on an anti-bribery and antiexemplified. corruption policy/program to protect our people and our business (with zero tolerance approach to Local Procurement and Procurement Ethical Code bribery and corruption stating how our employees govern the way in which employees participate in should behave and what they should do if the purchase process for goods and services confronted with bribery or corruption). necessary for the Company’s activities. They ensure procurement follows ethical lines and is done in the best interests of ES-KO and the Measurement of outcomes Customer with no personal benefits or involvement. There have been no reported cases of attempted bribery or conflict of interest and no disciplinary Goals actions taken have been taken against any of our employees. To continue support for the UN convention and other legal frameworks in their fight against corruption. To ensure that transparency is maintained in order to demonstrate the Company's commitment to excluding corrupt practices from our business dealings Implementation ES-KO’s policies are implemented through appropriate procedures contained in the Integrated Management System, accurate 10 ES-KO International SAM Tel. +377 97 97 76 76 I commercial@es-ko.com www.es-ko.com
