UNITED GLOBAL NATIONS COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (CoP) 2019 1 CONTENT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT P. 03 ZEABORN SHIP MANAGEMENT – OVERVIEW P. 04 01 HUMAN RIGHTS P. 06 02 LABOUR P. 08 03 ENVIRONMENT P. 12 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION P. 17 2 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Zeaborn Ship Management and its management Compact. In this context, it also describes the board confirm and renew their commitment to objectives for the upcoming reporting period. The continuously support the United Nations Global report will be made accessible to all stakeholders Compact and its ten principles in the areas of of the company. Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environmental Protection and Anti-Corruption. Zeaborn Ship Management and its management board are committed to further incorporating the Within the entire international commodity ten principles into their business strategy and trade, the biggest proportion of transportation to continuously develop and enhance respective is seaborne. Shipping is therefore an important objectives and measures. participant and beneficiary in globalisation processes. As a result, Zeaborn Ship Management recognizes and appreciates its economic, ecological and social responsibility at both national and international level. This seventh annual Communication on Progress documents the measures and results of Zeaborn Holger Strack Michael Brandhoff Ship Management in the aforementioned four Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer areas of the ten principles of the UN Global 3 ZEABORN SHIP MANAGEMENT (ZSM) – OVERVIEW Zeaborn Ship Management is a globally acting, dedicated ship manager offering a comprehensive and state-of-the-art ship management product portfolio with particular focus on performance, efficiency, digitization and advanced customer care. We proactively manage a fleet of about 135 vessels focusing on containerships, bulk carriers and multipurpose vessels of all sizes. Zeaborn Ship Management combines the traditions of E.R. Schiffahrt and Rickmers Shipmanagement with a modern spirit. About 4,300 employees on shore and at sea are The award was renewed successfully in 2018. committed to provide safe, environmental friendly It confirms that Zeaborn Ship Management and reliable ship management operations to the complies with the highest state-of-the-art company’s clients. standards for the operation of container-, bulk and multi purpose vessels in terms of Emergency In addition to mandatory certifications according Response Service, Environmental Passport to the International Safety Management Code (Containerships), Ballast Water Management (ISM-Code), the Maritime Labour Convention (Bulkers), advanced internal training schemes (MLC) and to the International Shipboard and for employees and good PSC records (external Port Facility Security Code (ISPS-Code), Zeaborn inspections of vessels by local authorities during Ship Management developed an integrated port calls) – and also as a founding member management system certified to the following of the Container Ship Safety Forum (CSSF) standards: and participant of the UN Global Compact. • ISO 9001:2015 (quality management), Another important issue during the reporting • ISO 14001:2015 (environmental management), period was the review and revision of the Code of • BS OHSAS 18001:2007 (occupational health and Conduct for Employees and the Code of Conduct safety management), for Suppliers, based on the merger of the ship • ISO 50001:2011 (energy management) management activities of former E.R. Schiffahrt and Rickmers Shipmanagement. As part of the This management system is established and company´s compliance programme, it ensures a maintained both on board of the managed fleet continuous improvement of the company’s social, and ashore (except the energy management economic and environmental performance and system, which is only applicable on board). It will enforces the efforts against corruption. be audited by an independent external party on an annual basis. The company’s entire Code of Conduct clearly refers to the ten principles of the UN Global Within the reporting period, Zeaborn Ship Compact. It is available to all stakeholders of the Management successfully passed the renewal company. audits for the applicable standards at both locations, the headquarters in Hamburg and the The implementation and further development site office in Singapore. of the Code of Conduct has been supported by regular meetings of the board as well as by Maintaining the ISO certification is an essential workshops and trainings for the responsible part of the “DNV GL Excellence 5 Star” award, staff. Questions and outstanding topics are which is held by the company at both locations. covered by a Frequently Asked Question form. 4 The separate compliance e-mail address and The first rating was completed on 09 October compliance phone number is available to all 2018. The company´s CSR performance was employees on board and ashore to either address rated as: further questions, proposals of improvement or to report any violations or non-conformities. Moderate Another noteworthy step was the decision The company´s total score is equal to or higher of the management board to assess the than 61 % of the peer groups. company´s Corporate Social Responsibility and to obtain a professional CSR rating in 2018. The assessment took place in an industry area of “Sea and Coastal Water transport” and covered the areas • Environment • Laborand Human Rights • Ethics • Sustainable Procurement 5 01 HUMAN RIGHTS 01 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Zeaborn Ship Management recognizes and Businesses should support and respect the appreciates its social responsibility and is or was protection of internationally proclaimed human engaged in the following activities within the rights; and reporting period of 2018 in this regard: PRINCIPLE 2 The seafarers on board of our vessels are away make sure they are not complicit in human from their homes for several months. As it is rights abuses. crucial for them to be able to communicate with their families and friends while at sea, all vessels Zeaborn Ship Management and its management in Zeaborn Ship Management’s managed fleet board are committed to support and to protect are providing all crew members with internet the International Bill of Human Rights within their access. In order to improve the communication, sphere of influence and throughout their business the company has reviewed the latest state-ofactivities. the-art communication equipment available on the market. A decision was taken to upgrade the It is further the declared company’s policy neither communication equipment on board of most to permit nor to tolerate but to prevent any vessels to increase the bandwidth and speed kind of discrimination and/or harassment of its for a better internet access. The upgrade project employees on board or ashore on the grounds of started within 2017 and was finished at the race or the ethnic origin, gender, religion or belief, beginning of 2019. Feedback from the seafarers disability, age or sexual orientation. confirmed that the advanced connectivity improves the usage of social media on board. Within its management system, Zeaborn Ship This allows to stay in closer touch with family Management has established a reporting procedure and friends and is a further step to enhance the that enables and encourages all employees to welfare on board. report any non-conformity or complaint with regard to the Maritime Labour Convention and Social commitment led to physical action amongst other applicable national, international or internal the staff of Zeaborn Ship Management: As in rules and regulations. The latter also includes the the previous years, in summer 2018 numerous declared company’s policy statements available employees participated in the “HSH-Nordbank on the website of Zeaborn Ship Management. Run”, a charity run in the City of Hamburg. By their At the beginning of each year, the management participation, all runners supported the charity board of Zeaborn Ship Management is carrying organization “children help children”. out a thorough review of the company’s policy statement. The evaluation is based on the yearly Furthermore, numerous employees followed an Management Review. Necessary adjustments of intranet call in December and donated warm the policy will be instructed as deemed necessary. winter clothing for seafarers. As a result, Zeaborn In this connection, Zeaborn Ship Management Ship Management was able to hand over several prepared and started a campaign to tackle and boxes full of winter jackets, sweaters, hats to eliminate shipboard bullying and harassment. and gloves to the International Seamen’s Club The campaign was accompanied by training Duckdalben in Hamburg at the beginning of 2019. measures (e-learning courses, crew conference, distribution of poster) and discussions, as well as supplemented instructions in the company´s management system. Beside the Company Policy, Zeaborn Ship Management provides further guidance regarding Human Rights to all stakeholders through its Code of Conduct and its Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which was introduced in 2015. 7 02 LABOUR 02 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 The employment conditions of seafarers Businesses should uphold the freedom of employment agreements of the crew members association and the effective recognition of the on board of Zeaborn Ship Management managed right to collective bargaining; vessels are based on collective bargain agreements (CBA), fully in compliance with the PRINCIPLE 4 Maritime Labour Convention of 2006 (MLC 2006), the elimination of all forms of forced and its amendments from 2014 and other applicable compulsory labour; rules and regulations. PRINCIPLE 5 The aforementioned MLC 2006 governs the the effective abolition of child labour; and minimum requirements for seafarers to work on a ship and the conditions of employment, the PRINCIPLE 6 accommodation and recreational facilities as the elimination of discrimination in respect of well as food and catering on board, the health employment and occupation. protection, medical care, welfare and social security protection of seafarers. The effectiveness It is the declared policy of Zeaborn Ship of the system was continuously monitored Management that all employees both on board through annual internal audits on board of each and ashore shall be treated in a fair, just and vessel since then. Furthermore, the company fully correct manner based on relevant international complies with the requirements of the Maritime and national rules and regulations and applicable Labour Convention amendments 2014, which working terms and conditions. Zeaborn Ship are providing additional financial security for Management considers harassment and bullying the seagoing personnel in case of repatriation or a serious and inacceptable offence. abandoning of a ship. The company has established a grievance External crewing agencies are also audited by procedure, which clearly defines the right of Zeaborn Ship Management on a yearly basis. any seafarer to file a complaint arising from an These audits include the verification of their alleged violation of his contractual or any other compliance with the MLC 2006 as well. rights. Furthermore, anti-bullying posters (“Say no to harassment and bullying! Stand up and Zeaborn Ship Management’s internal and external raise your voice!”) have been developed in 2018 recruiting process ensures that underaged and displayed on board all managed vessels, seafarers are not employed on board of Zeaborn providing advice and support (hotline) to the Ship Management managed vessels. Personnel seafarers concerned. A total number of three MLC documents are being reviewed during various complaints were recorded in the course of 2018. steps of the initiation of employment and also by the Master as a representative of the company on board. 9 02 LABOUR With regard to a safe working environment, • Q3/2018: Health Conscious Behavior / nutrition, Zeaborn Ship Management is obliged to ensure physical fitnessand mental wellness that all identified risks to its personnel are • Q4/2018: Review of the campaign being assessed and appropriate safeguards are established in order to ensure that no As one result of the campaign there was a clear unacceptable or avoidable risks are taken. improvement regarding the performance of the Safety Officer on board, with some positive To fulfill this commitment, procedures to identify impact on leadership including preparation and critical shipboard operations and to control supervision of work on board. Furthermore, the substances hazardous to the health of employees PPE matrix within the company´s management are established within the management system of system was revised and updated to ensure a the company. All procedures are regularly reviewed homogenous supply on all vessels. Another proof and revised. Part of the review is not only the proper for a successful result of the campaign was implementation of these procedures but also a that one of the ZSM managed vessels obtained verification of implementation by conducting the “Safe Boarding Award” by the Panama Canal internal and external audits on board and in the Authority. office. All audits are related to the company’s Occupational Health and Safety Assessment The Health Conscious Series (OHSAS) certification. Further employee Behaviour campaign input is obtained through various tools such as was a great supplement the monthly minutes of the Ship Management to the safety – as a Meeting, the annual “Master´s Review” or by healthy crew is essential addressing a proposal for improvement. for safety on board. As part of our holistic The verification in the office was carried out workplace health successfully during the reporting period of this promotion programme Communication on Progress. In addition, further ‘move on BOARD’ we positive feedback and impact on the safety proudly present our system was not only given by the employees but online health training also by clients who carried out own officeand video series covering shipboard audits according to their ownor to “strength & endurance”, industry standards. “mobility” and “mental fit & relax” (www. moveonboard.com) to actively counter strains arising from daily work routines on board. The training videos are available for our seafarers and their family and SAFETY CAMPAIGN ²⁰¹⁸ friends free of charge. by Zeaborn Ship Management Based on all input and all previous measures, Our training videos were recognized with the “HR the company´s management decided to launch Excellence Award 2018” in the category “Company and run a safety campaign, both at sea and Occupational Health Management”. ashore, throughout 2018. The campaign “Home – Your Reward For Staying Safe Every Day” was structured on a quarterly basis covering the following main topics: HUMAN RESOURCES EXCELLENCE • Q1/2018: Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) / AWARDS new assignment and training of the Safety 2018 Officer on board WINNER • Q2/2018: Preparation and supervision of work on board / risk assessment / leadership 10 02 LABOUR and training. We could not reach all vessels in management in 2018, because the PSP team accompanied the DOC change of the Rickmers Shipmanagement vessels and we carried out PSP ashore for our newly employed Vietnamese crew. PSP will remain a core component of the company’s personnel development and training concept for 2019. The 2018 theme of the Day of the Seafarers was As a founding member of the Container Ship Safety “seafarers’ wellbeing”. The topic given by the IMO Forum (CSSF), a global business-to-business was a perfect match to our “Health Conscious network that improves safety performance and Behaviour” campaign. Beside the ‘move on BOARD’ management practices in the container shipping programme we are offering to the seafarers, industry, the company not only supports the the company is offering e.g. stretching sessions further growth of the Forum, but also its transition during an ‘active lunch break’ and the office in into a Non-Government Organisation (NGO). The Manila started to offer yoga courses for all office latter took place during the initial meeting in staff to foster wellbeing. Hamburg on 07/08 November 2018, which was chaired by Zeaborn Ship Management. Within the reporting period the company continued its approach to support and promote Again, during the reporting period the CCSF risk based assessments of relevant procedural managed to attract further members. The network changes on board and ashore, thus to strengthen now consists of 23 members, all of them major its own Risk Assessmentand Management container shipping liner companies and ship of Change procedure. To reach the goals it owning and / or ship managing companies. These was decided to continue with regular trainings 23 companies represent more than 40 percent of and workshops. The campaign to promote the the worldwide TEU (Twenty Foot Equivalent Unit) identification of unsafe conditions and unsafe container capacity. Their common objective is to acts is also ongoing and the goal of the campaign create a container shipping industry with high is still valid: to promote a near miss reporting in safety standards, ensuring no harm is caused order to proactively identify hazards before they to people, ships, cargo, and the environment. will lead to incidents and accidents. To achieve this, CSSF members collaborate to advance the continuous improvement of safety In 2018, the company continued to arrange culture and performance in the container shipping Fleet Officer Meetings (FOM) and pre-departure industry through measurement, reporting and briefings for about 82 officers in total. We benchmarking, sharing best practices, and decided to carry out only one FOM that year, engaging with key stakeholders to develop which took place in Manila, Philippines. The durable solutions. concept of our FOM to have a whole day of inspiration for human resources management As a part of the occupational health management and a day full of operational topics was very well ashore the company established a weekly “Active received by all participants. We have managed Lunch Break” a holistic movement concept to focus our officers on leadership, social skills for health promotion. Physical discomforts of and communication. We embedded our Health the employees, such as back and neck pain, are Conscious Behavior campaign into the FOM and reduced and health is sustainably promoted. carried out a one-hour yoga session with the participants. A general practitioner held a lecture In order to improve the occupational health on nutrition and health awareness. management, the company has set up a health programme (MediFit) for its employees in Although the PSP (Performance Support cooperation with the company medical officer. Programme) team was reduced by one team Each month there are individual one-on-one member, we were able to offer 1.476 crew members discussions, lectures or workshops on a specific on board our vessels personnel development topic. 11 03 ENVIRONMENT 03 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 This approach is reflected in all company Businesses should support a precautionary instructions and procedures, which ensure approach to environmental challenges; the safe operation of all vessels with regard to environmental protection, in compliance with all PRINCIPLE 8 relevant laws and regulations and in line with undertake initiatives to promote greater the requirement of the ISO 14001:2015 standard. environmental responsibility; and Further internal and external verification audits were carried out on board of several vessels of PRINCIPLE 9 the fleet. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Also, during the reporting period covered by this CoP the ISO standard 50001 “Energy Management Zeaborn Ship Management is clearly committed Systems” has been confirmed as well functioning. to protect the environment, which is a broader The energy management system of Zeaborn view compared to the previous approach to Ship Management aims at locating fuel saving prevent any kind of pollution. Therefore, Zeaborn potentials and managing energy efficiency Ship Management is permanently reviewing its effectively on board the vessels managed by the company policy, its relevant procedures and company. KPIs. Consequently, the company was one of the In order to support the seagoing and office staff first ship managers worldwide who revised its in charge, the company has revised its handbook management system to cope with the latest ISO on energy efficient vessel operation. It shall give 14001:2015 standard. A proof for the successful guidance for shipboard operations with regard revision was given during the annual audit in to propulsion, energy efficiency and fuel balance August 2018. management. Zeaborn Ship Management is convinced that this is a major step and a significant commitment Within the recent reporting period, Zeaborn Ship to protect the environment, prevent pollution, Management has continued the successful comitigate and adapt the climate change and operation between the office and ship staff on the protect biodiversity and ecosystems. one hand and with classification societies, naval All Zeaborn Ship Management employees are architects, shipyards, research institutes, engine informed about this policy. They are trained makers and charterers on the other hand in order regularly to enhance their skills and abilities to to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of environmental protection. all vessels under management. 13 03 ENVIRONMENT Important measures are: Sulphur Emission Control Areas (SECA), have to ensure that their emissions are reduced. Zeaborn Operational: Ship Management already started in early 2014 Slow and super slow steaming Zeaborn Ship to implement measures and modifications in Management’s managed vessels were continuing order to meet these regulations well before the to reduce their normal voyage speeds wherever due date. Currently all Zeaborn Ship Management and whenever trading pattern allowed this managed vessels calling SECAs / ECAs are fully measure. compliant with the relevant MARPOL Annex VI regulations. Most other vessels managed by Training: Zeaborn Ship Management, which are not sailing 72 senior officers successfully attended an “ISO in those areas, are modified proactively. 50001 Energy Management Training Course” offered by our computer based training provider. From 01.01.2020, the sulphur content of marine fuels shall not exceed 0.50 % sulphur for operation 67 senior officers attended trainings concerning outside ECA and from 01.03.2020, the carriage “Ship Handling”, “ME MAN Engine course”, of non-compliant fuel on ships not fitted with “RT Flex Engine course” and “MSPS In-house ‘equivalent’ means of compliance (e.g. exhaust Training”. Officers also contributed to the content gas cleaning systems) is prohibited. All vessels of such trainings to increase the overall vessel must have a vessel specific ‘ship implementation performance. plan’ (SIP) on board from now on. The IMO has agreed that administrations and PSC authorities Redesign: may take into account the SIP when verifying Two vessels were equipped with variable frequency compliance with this regulation. drives (VFD) for the main seawater pumps and engine room fans in 2017. The final commissioning Up to now, two owners decided to install an of these systems was completed in 2018. Day and exhaust gas cleaning system (EGCS) on some of night time operation, manned and unmanned their vessels. EGCS are currently being installed engine room operation, ambient and seawater on six vessels of the fleet managed by Zeaborn temperature changes and port or at sea operation Ship Management. have a direct influence on the cooling and air flow requirements and are normally controlled The propeller shaft seal of two further vessels was manually by crew. Programmed VFD control units converted into an airtight shaft sealing during dry ensure a demand related provision of cooling docking in 2018. With this sealing system, there water and airflow provision and consequently the will be no more hazards to contaminate seawater vessel achieves significant basic load / fuel oil by oil in case the sealing fails. consumption reductions. Additionally, on a vessel where it was not IMO and US coast guard regulation force ship possible to install an air sealing system, the owners to implement/retrofit Ballast Water mineral oil filling of the sealing was replaced by Treatment Systems (BWTS) in order to prevent environmental friendly oil during dry docking. the spread of harmful aquatic organisms from one region to another and halt damage to the marine Monitoring and Reporting: environment from ballast water discharge, by During the reporting period, Zeaborn Ship minimizing the uptake and subsequent discharge Management continued to use FuelSafe, an of sediments and organisms. The first Zeaborn integrated tool of the company´s own Vessel Ship Management managed vessel retrofit started Performance Monitoring Center (VPMC) installed in 2018 with the implementation of a 500 m³/h on selective vessels representing all vessel UV / Filter BWTS on a 2.500 TEU container vessel. classes under management. It enables optimal Completion and commissioning are planned for efficiency with regard to fuel consumption and the first quarter of 2019. asset protection. The system retrieves up to 300 measured values. It does not only deliver Since January 2015, all vessels operating in analytical data but is also indispensable for Emission Control Areas (ECAs) also referred to as successful monitoring: It checks the ship’s 14 03 ENVIRONMENT operation continuously, gathering data on energy Starting from 01.01.2018, all European ports are output, fuel consumption and sailing conditions subject to the EU Monitoring Reporting Verification on a day-by-day basis. Its reporting features reveal (MRV) regulation, which covers CO2 emissions. where steps may be taken to increase efficiency, Already since 31.08.2017, all shipping companies giving the crew specific recommendations for are obliged to submit a plan for monitoring, performance improvement. reporting and verifying the resulting CO2. This On top of that, Zeaborn Ship Management has EU regulation requires the monitoring, reporting implemented additional functional modules in and verification of the amount of CO2 generated its KPI based vessel performance evaluation per ton and mile, which is published annually on software to monitor engine performance and lube the internet. In this context, the importance of oil consumption improving the VPMC’s guidance energy efficiency measures and of performance and support for the vessels to improve their and monitoring systems becomes clear again. A operational efficiency. weak performance in connection with the future tightened regulations also has a lasting impact on Since the beginning of the calendar year 2019, the public reputation of a company. the whole fleet managed by Zeaborn Ship Management uses the software PIM (PositionThereafter, amendments to MARPOL Annex VI, Intention-Movement) for its daily event reporting. which came into force from 01.03.2018, require During the merger integration process of E.R. ships over 5000 GRT to collect consumption Schiffahrt and Rickmers Shipmanagement it has data for each type of fuel oil they use, as well as been decided to use PIM for the event reporting other, additional, specified data including proxies instead of the DANAOS Operations module, which for transport work. Not later than 31.12.2018, all was used by the former E.R.Schiffahrt fleet. ships are required to carry on board a ship energy efficiency management plan (SEEMP) describing The event reporting is required to measure the the process of data collecting and transmission vessel performance, track special events and to to Flag State. The data will be collected for all comply with international reporting regulations, voyages, regardless of the location and will e.g. for fuel consumption as well as SOx and NOx be used by IMO for producing an annual report emission. With the decision to use PIM, Zeaborn concerning CO2 emissions. Ship Management ensures the compliance with all of these requirements. In parallel, PIM holds Company Policy: a high level of efficiency and flexibility in terms The management board of Zeaborn Ship of the handling and maintenance the software. Management reviews the environmental As PIM is an in-house designed and developed company’s policy in regular intervals and product, all future requirements, whether caused confirms its validity. As mentioned earlier, inor externally, can be solved directly and this was done in 2018 with a broader view independently from any external service provider. of the company’s environmental approach. The effectiveness of Zeaborn Ship Management’s As an important part, the Code of Conduct for all energy efficiency system is backed by benchmark employees covers the environmental aspects of systems of its customers. These systems collect Zeaborn Ship Management’s business. It confirms and monitor data with regard to vessel performance that the protection of the environment as well as as well. The fuel efficiency benchmark system of the conservation of natural resources do have a the market leader showed that vessels managed high priority. by Zeaborn Ship Management saved fuel in line with the top competitors. Greater environmental responsibility is also expected from all suppliers and subcontractors Zeaborn Ship Management supports and uses the around the world. We see positive trends, Shipping Efficiency initiative, which was launched especially in Asia, that suppliers are changing by the Carbon War Room programme. Within their behavior towards greater responsibility. Shipping Efficiency Zeaborn Ship Management The Code of Conduct for Suppliers, already maintains an up-to-date record of its ships in implemented in 2015, has been reviewed and order to get an external energy efficiency rating of amended end of 2018, based on the merger of its measures and to share such rating of its fleet the ship management activities of former E.R. in a transparent way with the public. Schiffahrt and Rickmers Shipmanagement. 15 03 ENVIRONMENT Campaigns: regulations in an anonymous way. Regular tests For the second time the company encouraged ensure a reporting via e-mail or telephone. the employees on board to support the UN World Environment Day (WED). According to the motto Within the reporting period there was no (0) report “beat plastic pollution” an internal environmental to the Environmental Whistle Blower Hotline. campaign was conducted: all vessel were invited to monitor and report the wrapped supplies In addition to the Whistle Blower Hotline, the delivered on board, take pictures of the plastic company provides a dedicated e-mail address waste, estimate the volume (cbm) of plastic foils and a phone number. Both means shall serve as / packages and the quantity of plastic bottles. communication tools to contact the company regarding compliance matters. The result was that within one year about 24 cbm of half-pressed plastic garbage is produced on a Within the reporting period there was one (1) vessel and around 1.2 million plastic bottles pass report to the company´s compliance e-mail through the managed fleet. address, related to a case of harassment. This case was treated in line with the company´s In order to reduce the usage of plastic on board, procedures and finally solved to the satisfaction the management board instructed the removal of all persons concerned. of plastic made single use items such as straws and cups from the purchasing programme. Office: Furthermore, the vessels are encouraged to In 2018, Zeaborn Ship Management reviewed return plastic pallets and wrapping to the its environmental management system for the provision supplier as it was discussed and agreed office, especially after an office move to a new beforehand with all vendors. location where ZSM united the ship management activities of former E.R. Schiffahrt and Rickmers To monitor the supplier’s performance, a software Shipmanagement. As a result, the management based supplier rating system is in use and allows board has confirmed the environmental objectives both the office and the ship’s side to rate the and targets. quality of a product and its packaging. Since 2017, the criteria for supplier evaluation have been In order to enhance the understanding and support extended to environmental aspects. of all employees ashore, the objectives and targets are still divided into three environmental aims: Zeaborn Ship Management is continuously working on a further development of a strong 1.) Reduction of waste supplier base. In 2018, approx. 1.150 active 2.) Saving of resources suppliers worked for the company. Approx. 45% 3.) Avoiding of pollution of supplier spending is based on frame contracts to ensure high quality supplies and observance All three aims are subdivided into single measures of high environmental standards and sustainable or projects. Each measure or project is clearly business behavior. described and defines the responsible team / department, the status and in particular the Each of these suppliers and subcontractors has related risks and opportunities. received an average of five evaluations in the previous four years, supported by supplier audits The evaluation for 2018 on how far the objectives at suppliers sites. The average supplier rating and targets have been met, is pending at the time (from 1=poor to 5=very good) within 2018 was 4.07. of finalization of this report. After an average result of 4.10 the year before, this figure reflects the high and stable standard of the Furthermore, the company continues to offer supplier performance. subsidized monthly passes for public transport within the metropolitan area of Hamburg, in order In addition, Zeaborn Ship Management provides to encourage employees to use environmental an environmental Whistle Blower Hotline to its friendly transportation for commuting between employees and stakeholders for more than three home and work. years. The Hotline provides a possibility to report any incompliance with environmental rules and 16 04 ANTICORRUPTION 04 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Management has to be reported to the company Businesses should work against corruption in all and is subject to approval in order to reduce its forms, including extortion and bribery. possibilities of contradictions of interest. Salaries paid by Zeaborn Ship Management are ensuring The management board of Zeaborn Ship that employees are able to support themselves Management has reviewed the company´s Antiwithout the need of an additional income. Corruption policy and confirmed its commitment to counteract fraud, extortion and bribery or any These measures will be supported by Zeaborn Ship other form of corruption within its sphere of Management‘s Code of Conduct for Suppliers and influence and to act in line with all relevant rules Subcontractors which has been revised in 2018, and regulations. based on the merger of the ship management activities of former E.R. Schiffahrt and Rickmers In order to give a detailed guidance to all Shipmanagement. employees aboard and ashore, the company has addressed the following topics within the Code At the same time, Zeaborn Ship Management of Conduct: exchanges best practice experience with its business partners and encourages them to • Attitude towards business partners and third issue their own Code of Conduct as well as to parties implement worldwide anti-corruption campaigns • Antitrust and fair competition and strategies. • Anti-Corruption and improper advantages • Anti-Money Laundering Furthermore, Zeaborn Ship Management supports • Trade Control Regulations anti-corruption initiatives of business partners. Further contractual rules and regulations In addition, the company maintains an internal are governing the acceptance and granting control system to ensure that business activities of presents, corporate hospitality and other are checked on a regular base. invitations and stipulating in which cases employees have to report to the company if such The management board held regular meetings benefits are offered to them by third parties to discuss topics related to anti-corruption, that uphold or are about to enter into business reviews the company´s policy and revises its relations with Zeaborn Ship Management or its guidance to the employees, stakeholders and related companies. Any secondary employment or interested parties. additional business of employees of Zeaborn Ship 18
