UN Global Compact, Communication on Progress Medidata and other marks used herein are trademarks of Medidata Solutions, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Copyright © 2019 Medidata Solutions, Inc. UN GLOBAL COMPACT, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2 Medidata is leading the digital transformation of life science with the world’s most used platform for clinical development, commercial, and real-world data. Powered by artificial intelligence and delivered by top-ranked industry experts, Medidata helps pharmaceutical, biotech, medical device companies, and academic researchers accelerate value, minimize risk and optimize outcomes. Medidata and its companies, Acorn AI and SHYFT, serve 1,300 customers and partners worldwide and empower more than 150,000 certified users every day to create hope for millions of patients. Discover the future of life science: www.medidata.com. To our Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Medidata Solutions reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. This is our first annual Communication on Progress, where we describe our standards as a company and demonstrate how we continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders through our primary communication channels. The Global Compact’s principles closely align with our corporate social responsibility program’s two pillars: “access for all” (to provide all patients access to treatment) and STEM education. I’m proud of our ongoing activities and diverse culture in which employees feel encouraged, included, and inspired as outstanding citizens at work and in their communities. Sincerely, Tarek Sherif Co-Founder, CEO and Chairman Medidata Solutions UN GLOBAL COMPACT, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 Description of Actions HUMAN RIGHTS (Principles 1-2) Medidata Solutions Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries (Medidata, or we) uphold the United Nations (UN) standards for fundamental human rights within the company and wherever we do business. PROVIDING ALL PATIENTS WITH ACCESS TO TREATMENT Medidata’s mission is to power smarter treatments and healthier people, and we believe that everyone, regardless of socioeconomic background or geographic location, deserves access to treatment. One of our corporate social responsibility (CSR) goals is to support initiatives that help provide access to treatment for all patients, concentrating our efforts on diversity in clinical trials and drug repurposing. Through initiatives such as skills-based volunteering, we also work within our communities to bring treatments to patients across the globe. HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN The Human Rights Campaign (HRC) gave Medidata a perfect score in its 2018 Corporate Equality Index. The index is a national benchmarking tool on corporate policies and practices pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer employees. Human Rights Campaign PARENTAL LEAVE Medidata has established one of the most progressive policies worldwide for enhanced maternity and paternity benefits for both biological and adoptive parents. When combined with paid time off, U.S. short-term disability, and countryspecific social insurance programs, our Parental Paid Leave program provides new mothers with six months of jobprotected paid leave and new fathers with paid paternity benefits, including four weeks of job-protected leave. In 2018, we enhanced our policy so all new parents receive four months of paid leave following any disability time (a total of six months for new moms). We also added Paid Family Leave to allow employees four weeks of paid time to care for a child, parent, parent-in-law, grandchild, grandparent, spouse, or domestic partner with a serious health condition. HUMAN RIGHTS Supporting Documentation 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Report UN GLOBAL COMPACT, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 4 Labour (Principles 3-6) Medidata ensures that all employees have a safe, comfortable work environment. EXTERNAL COMMITMENT TO STEM EDUCATION We work externally to create Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) education opportunities for students in our communities. We recognize that our future relies on the minds of our youth, so we actively invest in their education and enable employees to give back to those around us. In 2018, Medidata set a goal to provide 15,000 students with opportunities to learn about careers in STEM over a period of five years. Our initiatives include employee volunteering, in-kind software donations to universities, and support of local organizations that teach students to code. CHILD LABOR While we support opportunities for the next generation to learn about STEM careers, we comply with federal regulations and do not allow anyone below the age of 16 to work or intern at Medidata. FORCED LABOR As a cloud-based company, we do not manufacture any physical goods—all of our products are software and services. Every employee interviews and willingly chooses to work for Medidata, which precludes forced or compulsory labor. HEALTH AND SAFETY We maintain healthy, safe, and productive work environments. We never tolerate workplace behavior (verbal, physical, or otherwise) that creates, encourages, or permits an offensive, intimidating, or inappropriate work environment. We prohibit violence and threats of any kind against our employees, the possession or use of weapons, and illicit drug or excessive alcohol use on our premises. CAREER AND LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Each of our employees is required to complete an Individual Development Plan outlining career interests, skill strengths, and development needs. This plan is discussed at least annually between employee and manager. At Medidata, we expect our employees to “team smart,” “lead smart,” and be “Medidata Smart.” This framework offers a set of skill builders that employees can choose to develop. At over $1.5 million USD per year, our leadership and employee development budget provides opportunities for employees to participate in a global development curriculum. We offer a comprehensive selection of courses and workshops (delivered both internally, externally and on-demand by subject matter experts) covering strategic thinking, critical thinking, crucial conversations, business acumen, management fundamentals, and professional development. One of our most popular courses, BioPharm Overview, is a full day course covering the clinical trial process along with the alignment of the value proposition from our products. This course has attracted over 700 employee attendees to date. We also provide soft skills training for emotional intelligence, influence and persuasion, personal branding, and managing personal energy. We have four global charters for Toastmasters, with over 140 employee members. Global leadership development programs (also offered both internally and externally) are available to any employee at a Director level and above. We offer a massive library of on demand learning through LinkedIn Learning, Athena, and Bookboon. We currently have over 1,500 active users in our LinkedIn learning platform. Our Social Innovation Lab is an innovative leadership development “think tank” type program whereby we match our talent to social entrepreneurs in order to solve challenging systemic problems in the life sciences industry, such as creating a new financial model for drug repurposing clinical trials, and increasing diversity in clinical trials. UN GLOBAL COMPACT, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 ENGAGING WITH OUR PEOPLE āā Employees: We engage with employees through our quarterly Town Hall meetings and encourage questions and open dialogue on all relevant topics. We also listen to our employees’ perspectives through internal blogging and our annual global employee survey, MediMic. āā Customers: We consider our customers’ interests through our sustainability reports and by responding to requests for sustainability information. We are committed to delivering accurate and reliable information to the media, financial analysts, investors, and the general public. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION We regard the diversity of our employees as a tremendous asset. We seek to maintain our reputation as an outstanding employer and to ensure high levels of employee motivation and commitment. Per our policy, all applicants and employees receive equal treatment regardless of age, race, creed, color, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, or any other legally protected classification. We provide challenging opportunities for individual growth and advancement free from discrimination and harassment. Medidata prohibits its employees from engaging in harassing or discriminatory behavior such as physical or verbal bullying, exclusion, sexual harassment, and inappropriate or offensive physical contact. Medidata’s current employee population is slightly more diverse than that of our competitors with regard to gender, including representation of women in management positions. However, the company aims to improve racial and ethnic diversity, along with the representation of women in technical departments. We launched several initiatives to this end in 2018, including our newly formed business resource groups (BRGs) backed by executive sponsors and charters. Three BRGs are women-led: Women of Color, Women in Tech, and Women at Medidata. Just over a year ago, we made a commitment to gender parity by joining the HBA Gender Parity Collaborative (Collaborative) along with eleven other companies including Celgene, Sanofi, and Advanced Clinical, all of which are equally committed to advancing the influence and impact of women in life sciences. The Collaborative has set goals to achieve policy change in three benchmarking areas: Diversity Scorecard tied to compensation; Allyship programs and Storytelling as a communication tool; and measure of the Collaborative efforts and Solutions Summits. We are focused on augmenting initiatives behind gender pay equality, women’s leadership programs, and mentorship and sponsorship programs; supporting female pipeline talent; and utilizing our BRGs to develop talent across the global organization at all levels, in addition to training and metrics. We also formalized our commitment to gender equality by becoming signatories of the 2020 Women on Boards and the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion campaigns. UN GLOBAL COMPACT, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 6 DIVERSE PROCUREMENT We maintain supplier diversity efforts to ensure inclusion and equal opportunity at the vendor level. We consider respect for and advancement of human rights within Medidata and among our suppliers an essential component of our core values. We commit to partnerships with suppliers regardless of background, including minority-, woman-, veteran-, and disability-owned businesses. This strengthens our strategic sourcing process and supports our communities. LABORSupporting Documentation We have made a strong commitment to and have been actively involved in the following pledges: 2020 Women on Boards, CEO Action for Diversity and Executive Leadership Council. Diversity and Inclusion Global Careers Website Great Place to Work 50 Best Places to Work in TechnologyFortune ENVIRONMENT (Principles 7-9) As a software as a services company, Medidata’s impact on the environment is significantly less than that of manufacturers of physical goods; regardless, we continually strive for improvement. We have submitted nonpublic assessments to the annual Carbon Disclosure Report (CDP) for the last three years to determine our environmental impact and identify opportunities to decrease emissions and energy use. We have set an ongoing goal to situate 90% of our long-term office leases in U.S. Green Building Council Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Gold buildings and encourage sustainable waste management and responsible energy consumption within all of our offices. Though we do not own any of our buildings, we believe it is imperative to occupy offices built to these standards around the globe. We will expand our initiatives for greater sustainability in our offices as we continue to develop the program. SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT We work closely with our suppliers to encourage sustainable advancements throughout our procurement process. Beyond ensuring that our suppliers are reliable, transparent and conform with ethical business practices, we also maintain a sustainability standard that adheres to the LEED program. Accordingly, Medidata strives to minimize negative impacts on the environment and seek opportunities for increased efficiencies throughout our supply chain. EMISSIONS Medidata does not have any Scope 1 emissions, but we do report our Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions to the CDP, including electricity use and travel. We do not have financial control over our emission release, so we collect data based on our operational control. Since we lease all of our offices, we have limited control of our energy use. We take a proactive position to evaluate our emissions and determine how we can decrease them. UN GLOBAL COMPACT, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 DISASTER RELIEF An unprecedented number of natural disasters continue to unfold. Recently, two disasters affected regions where our employees live and work: San Francisco and Houston. To support those local communities, we partnered with the American Red Cross to launch a matching gift program and made additional donations to help those in need. We take disaster relief seriously, and continually support the American Red Cross as they provide relief for communities impacted by natural disasters. ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITYSupporting Documentation Global SustainabilityBloomberg 100 Most Sustainable CompaniesBarron’s LEED UKWSP ANTI-CORRUPTION (Principle 10) To prevent corruption, Medidata prepares its employees to recognize and respond to situations that may arise while conducting business. Every Medidata employee is required to take an anti-corruption training course within 30 days of hire. We also offer an annual ethics training and require all employees, including our leadership team, to read and acknowledge our code of conduct. Our code of conduct notes that the United States federal government, most state governments, the European economic community, and many foreign governments have enacted antitrust or competition laws. These laws seek to minimize agreements and practices in restraint of trade, such as price fixing, disparagement of competitors, bribery, kickbacks, and theft of trade secrets. Our code of conduct reminds employees that Medidata must be scrupulous about complying with antitrust laws and warns of the severity of the potential penalties that may be levied against Medidata and individual employees if these laws are not followed. ANTI-CORRUPTIONSupporting Documentation Investor Relations Trust and Transparency Involvement with World Economic Forum
