Global Green Connect Pte Ltd 66 East Coast Road #03-03, The Flow Singapore 428778 Tel (65) 6904 6088 globalgreenconnect.com UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period: 12 April 2018 – 11 April 2019 1. Statement of continued support by the CEO 11 April 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm Global Green Connect supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual COP, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Christina Lee Founder & CEO Business Registration No: 201318797R 2. Description of actions 2.1. Human Rights Global Green Connect ensure employees are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. The company protects employees from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. 2.2. Labour Global Green Connect abides by the Singapore Employment Act on regulated working hours, entitled breaks, annual leave entitlements and salary payout time frame. We adopt fair, merit-based and non-discriminatory recruitment practices in the company. 2.3. Environment We created energy savings through good operational habits without the need for capital investments. We keep the office temperature at no lower than 25 degrees Celsius and ensuring all electricity are switched off entirely during lunch break and after working hours. 2.4. Anti-Corruption We manage the company’s exposure to corruption risks by applying and emphasizing good corporate governance, business ethics and transparency while applying internal controls in business processes as our core approach. We monitor and ensure that the company’s compliance policy towards fraud, corruption and unethical actions is strictly adhered to. 3. Measurement of outcomes • Global Green Connect treats everyone with respect and consideration at all times, regardless of gender, age, cultural background, religious belief and lifestyle choice. The overall workforce ratio between female and male employees is almost equal. The company has an equitable salary structure based on job scope without gender bias. • There was no reporting case for occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism within the reporting year. • 70% of waste generated within our office was disposed via reuse or recycling. We continue to recycle and reduce paper use in our business operations and actively promote the 3Rs – Reduce, Reuse and Recycle – to our employees. • Within the reporting year, we have rejected 2 projects that will potentially put the company in high compliance risk. Global Green Connect Pte Ltd 2 4. Global Green Connect Ecosystem & UN SDGs Visit https://globalgreenconnect.com/ to find out more details on the company and its subsidiaries. End Global Green Connect Pte Ltd 3
