1 CSR REPORT 2018 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Welcome 3 Corporate Governance 10 Economic Development 13 Community Development 25 Human Development 36 Environmental Protection 41 Experts' Corner 46 We are a member of the GRI Community and support the mission of GRI to empower decision makers everywhere, through GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and its multi-stakeholder network, to take action towards a more sustainable economy and world. CSR REPORT 2018 WELCOME 3 Today, there is no doubt that we live in interesting times… Standards of A remarkable feature of our approach is the use of digital technology living are improving everywhere, life expectancy is increasing, innovation to offer customers innovative solutions. We believe that digitalisation in technology and medicine is changing our world. Yet, daily risks and and sustainability are two major forces shaping the future, and we complex challenges remain an integral part of our lives. have adopted them with new solutions to our service model and improvements to our alternative delivery channels. Climate change, gender inequalities, poverty, jobless growth and local and regional political instabilities are major pain-points for all. Even our In the same spirit, we do our best to be purposeful in the way we business model is being disrupted with the shift to virtual solutions and support our own colleagues on all fronts, more particularly through the rise of the data-driven economies. skills transitions. This includes focusing on continuous learning, and ongoing training and development. It also means boosting our people’s Bank Audi’s 190 years of existence has taught us to face challenges engagement by empowering them with opportunities to learn, grow and opportunities with the same optimism, constantly re-inventing and lead change, while involving them in community activities through the role we play in our clients’ lives. Creating value and providing the our Volunteer Program. right personalisation to customers always come with our clearly defined purpose backed with a set of values: helping our clients thrive and our Through Bank Audi’s Start-up Program and youth Spring strategy, we communities prosper. use our significant talent capability and our resources to advance the conversation around future skills and youth development At the same More than ever, we remain steadfast in our belief that how we act time, we provide practical tools and support to community organisations is just as important as what we achieve. As such, our approach to and young people to prepare for a new world of work. In 2018, we sustainability also consists in managing our business in a balanced and invested more than USD 48.8 million in this area. This will remain one of responsible way, with our values of integrity and accountability, as well the clearest articulations of our purpose for the years to come. as a commitment to diversity and inclusion in the decisions we make every day. Today, I am proud to bring you Bank Audi’s 2018 CSR Report in both its interactive and plain formats. More importantly, I am convinced that As a purpose-driven company, we clearly understand that the legacy we each one of us, each one of you has a growing role in the sustainable leave for the next decades is also determined by our social impact, just development of our communities… Join us on this enriching journey. as much as our economic impact. Honored to contribute, With a view to strengthening sustainable energy in Lebanon, we partnered with EBRD to develop a program addressing critical issues for our country’s sustainable development, such as diversifying energy supply, reducing the use of limited natural resources like energy and water, and improving energy efficiency, thus decreasing pollution levels, conserving resources and contributing to a better environment. This will allow businesses and individuals to invest in commercially viable and environmentally sustainable projects, thereby supporting our nation’s transition to a green economy. Samir N. Hanna Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer CSR REPORT 2018 WELCOME 4 NOT EVERYTHING THAT COUNTS CAN BE COUNTED, AND NOT EVERYTHING THAT CAN BE COUNTED COUNTS The dictionary defines Contribute as a Business exists to create value for all stakeholders while giving a Focusing on measuring and communicating on our well embedded social competitive edge to all aspects of operations. Hence, the integration impacts, we realise that not everything that counts can be counted, provision of knowledge, time, money, of our SDGs into the business strategy as a complement to our social and not everything that can be counted counts. That’s the reasoning assistance to a common fund; at Bank strategy culture. By investing in society, we get a sense of belonging, behind our principle-based approach: nurturing innovation and new remaining focused and purpose-driven all while inviting for more business opportunities which are aligned with our community’s needs Audi, we acknowledge our ability to make awareness and dialogue on issues for change. and measured by the extent to which we consistently work towards a difference by remaining focused on the doing what’s right, today and in the long term. community’s needs and helping build a better In these challenging times, our proactive approach in regards to assisting communities in being more resilient was essential. Business priorities, Finally, and in an effort to maintain the momentum of our continuous world through business. performance, people, planet and policies intertwine to preserve and commitment, we are privileged to report at core level according to the respect our corporate values. Responsibility, inclusion, empathy and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: global best practice for impact are now even more entrenched than ever at Bank Audi through sustainability reporting. In doing so, we demonstrate our full support our five sustainability pillars: best practice Corporate Governance, for GRI’s mission to empower decisions that create social, environmental amplified Economic Development, balanced Community Development, and economic benefits for everyone. energised Human Development, and pre-cautionary Environmental Protection. This report will further explain how our investors care about Corporate Social Responsibility, and how we attract and retain engaged, productive We maintain our affinity to the UN Global Compact and its local steering employees. In a word – how we genuinely Contribute! network where we serve as Board members, the ISO 26000 of Social Responsibility, our pledge to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) where we locally lead SDG 8 on economic growth and job creation. In Responsibly, fact, the SDGs we tender towards span wider than the specific goals we have chosen to champion, our impact reaching 11 out of the 17 set goals. Here, one can also note the inherent interconnectedness of the goals and how actions undertaken to reach a target within a goal may spillover to other targets identified within different goals. Since 2015, Bank Audi has chosen to pledge towards 5 SDGs, namely Quality Education (SDG 4), Gender Equality (SDG 5), Decent Work and Hasmig G. Khoury Economic Growth (SDG 8), Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG Head of CSR 9), and Climate Action (SDG13). CSR REPORT 2018 WELCOME 5 THE FIVE PILLARS OF OUR CSR STRATEGY CORPORATE ECONOMIC COMMUNITY HUMAN ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT PROTECTION Ethical conduct Product portfolio Financial inclusion Labour practices Emissions Compliance Economic contribution Local community development Diversity, inclusion and Effluents and waste equal opportunity Anti-corruption Indirect economic impacts Local community support Energy consumption Training, education and Human rights Procurement practices Local community collaboration Environmental loans talent development Environmental and Social Market presence Awareness on resources usage External human development Management System Product responsibility Infrastructure investments Inclusive and sustainable industrialisation Innovation MILESTONES FIGURE CSR REPORT 2018 WELCOME 6 OUR CSR MILESTONES Pledging to 5 of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Launching “My Carbon Expanding the delivery Footprint” microsite across of INJAZ “More Than schools nationwide Money” across Lebanon Updating GRI: Gold Initiating the Water Community Adopting Environmental Awareness Stewardship Published as case study by Conceiving a CSR policy & Social Management Contributing to the Voluntary Ivery Publishing (Canada) System (ESMS) SDG Country Report Crafting a CSR strategy Initial signatory of Lebanon Adhering to GRI: Winning the SEA Award on 2011 2013 2015 2017 Piloting ISO 26000 Climate Act Organisational Stakeholder the “Social Impact of Forming a CSR unit Devising 4 CSR pillars (OS) GRI Standards pioneer Financial Inclusion” project 2010 Establishing a CSR Committee 2012 Adopting GRI G4 Guidelines: Core 2014 Committing to the UN Global Compact 2016 SME business line as empowerment to the nation’s economic infrastructure 2018 Updating to 5 CSR pillars Founding member in the UNGC National Steering Launching the “Let’s Talk Furthering Committee Money” quiz institutionalisation Furthering stakeholder Accessibility improvements inclusiveness for physically disabled to Furthering Volunteer ATMs and branches Program Lebanon Climate Act Initiating the Global Climate Change Champion Money Week Pledging Goal leader to SDG 8 at UN GCNL Engaging millennials in our Corporate Volunteer Program through “Spring” CSR REPORT 2018 WELCOME 7 ABOUT BANK AUDI Founded in Lebanon in 1830, Bank Audi sal has sustained its solid Bank Audi, a leader among Lebanese banking groups, has further COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF growth, building a strong legacy of excellence in banking. Headquartered reinforced its position among the top 20 Arab banks. Main development BANK AUDI sal in Lebanon, the Bank is currently present in 10 other countries located pillars for the Group are Lebanon, Egypt, Turkey and the Private Banking across Europe and the MENAT region, namely Switzerland, France, business line which, together, represent more than 90% of assets and (Chairman of the Board – Jordan, Egypt, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), Qatar, Monaco, earnings. Our performance stems from a comprehensive range of Mr. Samir N. HANNA General Manager, Group CEO) Turkey, Iraq and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). financial services and a diversified market presence, which represent the backbone of our sustained growth in spite of an overall challenging Dr. Marwan M. GHANDOUR (Vice-Chairman) Bank Audi is a joint stock company (“société anonyme libanaise”) with operating environment. The Bank’s recent results faithfully reflect a diversified shareholder base that encompasses founding shareholders, how sustainable strategies translate into long-term financial value. Dr. Freddie C. Baz (Vice-Chairman) large regional investors, supra-national entities, international Strengthening the balance sheet, reinforcing the financial flexibility and Mr. Marc J. Audi institutional investors, a large number of private investors, as well as delivering a solid growth of recurrent net profits are the key headlines executives and employees. of Bank Audi’s results in 2018. Our Executive Management remains Sheikha Mariam N. AL SABBAH determined to further advance environmental and social goals: in 2018, The Bank offers a full range of products and services in Commercial and the Bank initiated strategic partnerships to support Lebanon’s transition Dr. Imad I. ITANI Corporate Banking, Retail and Personal Banking, Private Banking and into a low-carbon economy. An example of these initiatives is the Capital Markets activities within a wide range of industries including USD 200 million pledge (split between EBRD’s GEFF Program and Bank Mr. Abdullah I. AL HOBAYB manufacturing, trading, contracting, real estate development, food and Audi) to finance green solutions. The Group continues to provide advisory beverage, education, media services, health and social services, and to clients with large-scale infrastructure projects on the E&S standards Dr. Khalil M. BITAR retailing among others. required in order to attract international funding and investment, while Ms. Sherine R. AUDI further developing in-house expertise and understanding of issues that present potential E&S risks and opportunities. Ultimately, the Group’s Mr. Carlos A. OBEID main purpose remains to achieve quality growth by efficiently meeting the needs of both businesses and individuals in the various countries of Mr. Aristidis I. VOURAKIS presence, and ensuring long-term sustainable value to all stakeholders. CSR REPORT 2018 WELCOME 8 OUR COMMITMENT STAKEHOLDERS’ PANEL TO THE SDGs The Global Goals indicate market gaps, development needs and OPEN COMMUNICATION AND CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ALL investment priorities for different countries. Issues addressed in THE WAY SDGs provide a road map for businesses to seek opportunities Recognising the value of each stakeholder, Bank Audi made sure to and manage risks. The SDGs also provide vision for sustainable, continuously engage its external and internal stakeholders, to seek their long-term growth for private companies that balance economic, social critical input, and to monitor their expectations. Therefore, and similar and environmental returns. to previous years, it held a special stakeholders’ panel reflecting its corporate values and aimed at inviting stakeholders to discuss the Bank’s SDGs are the bedrock of future regulations and policies which inform and strategy and initiatives, while identifying important gaps and directions channel investment into priority sectors and restrict businesses that have for the future. This meeting generated a better understanding of our negative social or environmental returns. Aligning with the SDGs also stakeholders’ concerns and perspectives on key issues, and helped build deepens the value and impact of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) stronger relationships for more tangible business value creation. The efforts expended by businesses. SDGs allow companies to promote their selected stakeholder representatives included employees, Management, socially and environmentally responsible operations while opening new clients, suppliers, regulatory bodies, partners and competitors. Open communication and constructive dialogue all the way consumer and business-to-business channels. They also offer a common language to communicate the company’s commitment to sustainable The main takeaways revolved around: development with stakeholders. Finally, SDGs give companies the • Collaborate with the government on the basis of sharing our practice opportunity to shift to sustainability by providing a framework to align of accountability; help improve public governance based on our their strategies with the global development agenda. extensive internal governance experience. • Encourage the government to take mandated reforms seriously. As a leading financial institution, and although our sphere of influence • Identify corporate clients for a workshop creating a thought impacts 11 of the 17 goals, Bank Audi has chosen to champion the leadership within a CSR arena. following SDGs: • Further CSR marketing and reporting. • Continue to promote financial literacy. • Support vocational training, job training and career mentoring. • Provide training programs in readiness for women leadership. • Maintain and expand renewable energy investments. • Support startups, social entrepreneurs, MMEs and SMEs. • Promote sustainable and equal economic development across Lebanon. • Encourage more transparency and fair procurement in bidding processes. CSR Committee Members • Offer “reward points” to third parties, and discounted interest rates which would be pooled and allocated to the more needy in the context of housing facilities. • Promote financial inclusion. • Further public-private collaboration. • Initiate a capacity-building program. Through this initiative, Bank Audi has engaged in an open and Throughout our report, relevant SDGs have been mapped within our constructive dialogue with its stakeholders who were keen to share five strategic pillars and our material issues. Our committed sustainability their concerns, thoughts and perspectives on its strategy and reporting. can be traced through our actions, our KPIs and the indicators we have These valuable insights will be used to identify material issues and carefully selected to assess and report upon. These SDGs integrate our refine the Bank’s CSR strategy (read more). economic, social and environmental ideals, and allow us to visualise impactful and sustainable progress in the areas of contribution and beyond due to overlaps. CSR REPORT 2018 WELCOME 9 CSR AT A GLANCE AT END 2018 CORPORATE ECONOMIC COMMUNITY HUMAN ENVIRONMENTAL GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPMENT PROTECTION Environmental and Social 1.82% of Lebanon’s GDP > USD 9 million total 69% of successfully trained > USD 20 million in Management System (ESMS) contributions to employees environmental loans 3,253 employees our community: Complying with USD 721,062 in training for “Grow Green” USD 185 million in taxes USD 1.4 million on health international standards: our employees when accounting for income > USD 7 million on Carbon Footprint monitoring ISO 26000 tax, municipal taxes, VAT, etc. humanitarian and social USD 10 million in UN Global Compact issues Climate change champions educational programs S ustainable Development 99% customer satisfaction > USD 880,000 on culture Goals (SDGs) 314,575 beneficiaries SME business line USD 65,000 on sports S DG 8 Goal Leader Financial literacy Diversity, inclusion and equal Allowing local economies opportunity to prosper Financial independence 47% female employees Developing financial literacy Approximately 1 million beneficiaries Quality Program Enhancing responsible lending Volunteer Program: Fostering innovation 4,362 beneficiaries 359 volunteers > USD 3.5 million in indirect economic impact 50 products 46 services 211 publicly accessible ATMs 80 operational branches* USD 479,450 in economic sponsorships * Excluding APB and Solifac. 10 CSR REPORT 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 11 Our Corporate Governance practices and policies are at the heart of our business model and provide the accountability and transparency we consistently aspire to uphold in order to remain the most trusted banking partner in the eyes of both internal and external stakeholders. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUSTAINABLE FINANCE This culture of compliance with high ethical standards, as well as legal MANAGEMENT SYSTEM and regulatory obligations we are subject to, both in Lebanon and in the USD Total value of 22 new loans with markets we serve, is fundamental to the preservation of our reputation and REINFORCING OUR COMMITMENT TO ESMS At Bank Audi, we consider it our obligation to reduce any negative 20,188,676 environmental benefits financed during 2018 integrity, and underlines one of our core guiding values: transparency. Thus Bank Audi takes all necessary measures to comply with various impacts on the environment and the communities which may be affected by the activities we finance. Throughout 2018, we continued regulations including: HIGHEST Laws and regulations adopted by a governmental regulatory body. the implementation of our Environmental & Social Management System MARKET Standards adopted by a self-regulatory body to which a business or entity 76 678 (ESMS) in alignment with international standards. Our ESMS, which SHARE has agreed to subject itself. is fully integrated into core credit operations and supported by Top Management, allows us to assess, mitigate and monitor E&S risks in the 22% Directives contained in our Compliance policies and our Code of Ethics Bank’s lending portfolio. and Conduct. Employees Training hours BDL energy attended trainings were spent on incentives – As precautionary measures and as part of the Bank’s lending activities, every “ on environmental environmental NEEREA loans credit transaction above a certain amount is subject to a credit risk opinion Bank Audi’s ESMS is fully integrated into core topics topic which is issued by functions that are independent from the credit originating credit operations. It is visibly supported by functions. This helps ensure that the credit transactions and resulting profile ETHICAL CONDUCT ” Top Management. are compliant with the Bank’s credit policy and risk appetite. In line with its Our Code of Ethics and Conduct clearly upholds the principles of credit policy, the Bank refrains from financing activities that are unethical non-discrimination and of a violence and harassment-free workplace. It is and illegal, that may present significant potential negative impacts to the 2018 marked an important year for the Bank’s ESMS. The EBRD’s environment, and/or may result in significant potential negative social impacts. worth mentioning that no breaches or fines were reported in this respect. completion of an equity investment in the Bank reinforced our commitment to managing E&S risks associated with lending activities. Minor enhancements were made to our ESMS, as the EBRD has specific HUMAN RIGHTS COMPLIANCE AND ANTI-CORRUPTION E&S performance requirements that clients are expected to meet. We expanded the list of industries which we decline to finance on the basis In an environment where banking behaviour is under increasing scrutiny, the The Bank endorses and supports internationally recognised principles of E&S issues, and increased our ESMS reporting requirements, which will Group continuously strives to keep its ethical standards beyond reproach. under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which promotes global provide greater insight into our aggregate exposure to E&S risks and form respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without Compliance risk, sanctions, taxes and capital markets have become significant distinction of race, colour, gender, language, religion, opinion, descent, part of our commitment to continuously review and improve our ESMS. and ongoing concerns for financial institutions, including Bank Audi. or national or ethnic origin (know more). ENHANCED REVIEW AND ESCALATION We are committed to combating money laundering and the financing of As businesses, we need to demonstrate that we are aware of human In 2018, we commissioned an independent review by an international terrorism in order to avoid being involved directly or indirectly in transactions rights. Clearly, human rights are a global issue. The concept of “due E&S consultant of a prospective project’s (still ongoing) compliance with connected with the laundering of money derived from illegal activities, or diligence” was proposed and found to be a useful starting point for renowned international frameworks for sound environmental and social the channelling of funds to be used for illicit purposes. companies as they seek to integrate respect for human rights into their risk management, including the IFC Performance Standards and EBRD practices. Similarly, with the right to privacy, any company should know This firm commitment of the Group is the result of proper guidance and Performance Requirements. that it has potential adverse impacts on this human right, whether it is instructions on the part of its Board of Directors and Senior Management, One transaction was referred to our Executive Committee for discussion and of its employees’ efforts and awareness. The latter are entrusted with from handling data or from registering and using customer information. and consideration, in line with our internal E&S standards and the responsibility of ensuring that the Group operations are consistent procedures. It was subsequently approved and subject to rigorous E&S with anti-money laundering and counter-financing of terrorism laws and conditions set by our Group E&S Risk Management team. regulations, internal policies and procedures, international best practices, and the highest level of morality. GCNL MULTI-STAKEHOLDER FORUM In October 2018, Bank Audi took part in the Multi-stakeholder Forum hosted by the United Nations Global Compact Network Lebanon (GCNL) at the Grand Serail, under the patronage and in the presence of Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Al Hariri. This forum provided stakeholders with the opportunity to discuss latest sustainable development practices, facilitate collaborations, discover innovative ways to advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in Lebanon, and cooperate to achieve the 2030 agenda. Prominent leaders of the community were present at the event to show their support to the GCNL’s cooperation, among whom H.R.H. Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden, honorary guest and keynote speaker. MP Dr. Dima Jamali, GCNL’s President, opened the forum, followed by the aforementioned dignitaries who each affirmed their substantial support to attain the target agenda. The 2030 agenda aims at ending poverty in all its forms, envisioning a world of universal respect for human rights and dignity. Senior Managers of various Lebanese companies participated in the various panels. National and international pioneers joined the forum and enlightened the public by raising awareness and provoking a sense of urgency to work towards achieving the 17 SDGs. Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon, discussed how the Bank adopted and implemented SDG 8 – Decent Work and Economic Growth. As a pioneer in the Lebanese community and as the largest bank in Lebanon, Bank Audi champions SDG 8. “ The only word of wisdom is that 2030 is very close. We cannot be spectators, we have to be actors; and each one of us, each one of you, has to contribute somehow to this achievement of sustainability. Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon ” GCNL Multi-stakeholder Forum 13 CSR REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 14 In conformity with our philosophy of Creating Shared Value, we have continued to magnify our social impact by leveraging the full power of our business to work with different stakeholders and contribute to a more resilient and stable economy. By creating manifold economic opportunities, providing access to SME BANKING The Audi SCF platform is an online tool that simplifies the relationship finance and innovation, and adapting to the needs of the marketplace Bank Audi continues supporting the small and medium-sized enterprises between suppliers and buyers through 3 main features: and the local economy, we have made significant strides under this pillar. through its SME Banking business line by offering a wide range of • Invoice Collection that helps buyers settle their invoices to their products and services that answer SMEs’ various business needs. suppliers through the platform. ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION • Distributor Financing which allows buyers to benefit from a credit limit at competitive interest rates to finance their invoices whenever they Our economic contributions also go a long way towards stimulating are short on cash, and extend the maturity dates of their dues. entrepreneurship and job creation through various tailored initiatives 62% targeting SMEs. 8,000 BENEFITTED FROM LENDING • Reverse Factoring to help small scale suppliers get immediate access to CLIENTS PROGRAMS TO DEVELOP, their future dues by financing their invoices, while the buyer pays the SERVED GROW OR SUSTAIN THEIR Bank at maturity or at extended maturity. BUSINESSES 3,253 1.82% “ We embraced this project because we believe in the complementarity of roles and tasks, and in Total number of employees Total contribution to Lebanon’s GDP In line with these ongoing efforts, Bank Audi launched the “Audi the need for efficient partnerships which boost Supply Chain Finance (Audi SCF)” online platform and celebrated its partnership with MERSACO S.A.L., the first company to acquire and our day-to-day work. With the Audi SCF platform, STIMULATING THE USE OF THE LEBANESE LIRA service its clients with Audi SCF, during an event held in December and each pharmacist can now streamline his financial gathering pharmacists, head of pharmacies syndication, members of In an endeavour to promote the use of the national currency, the transactions, save time and organise payments in Bank Audi and MERSACO S.A.L. management. ” “Loubnani” card was conceived to match the unique lifestyle of an innovative method. “ the Lebanese people, whereby its holders benefit from an extensive Despite the challenging times Lebanon is currently Walid Mroueh, Managing Director – MERSACO reward program. witnessing, Bank Audi is always keen on finding “ He also seized this occasion to underline that this service will not replace Our ultimate priority is to adapt to the routine of our opportunities to support the economy and its the crucial role of sales representatives who will continue to promote customers, align to their needs with the use of local different sectors. It is with this approach in mind MERSACO products on the market, take clients’ orders and cater to customers’ needs. or international currencies, and reward them for their that we worked on several initiatives, among which The Audi SCF helps both byers and suppliers in optimising their working loyalty with attractive privileges. Bank Audi is proud to be a Lebanese financial institution and encourages the Audi SCF. Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon ” capital and free up cash. the use of its local currency. Grace Eid, Head of Retail Banking ” Souk El Tayeb CSR REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 15 “ Both buyers and suppliers can benefit from this platform: it helps suppliers enhance their balance sheet and improve liquidity, simplify their collection process and reduce costs, and have better visibility over all account receivables with their buyers. On the other hand, it saves buyers the hassle of issuing cheques for their ongoing payables, and helps them access trade financing at competitive interest rates, while optimising their working capital and organising their cash flow. A second initiative undertaken in 2018 reinforced the Bank’s firm Hassan Sabbah, Head of SME Banking 2A full-day training in collaboration with several leading specialised EBRD SUPPORTS TRADE IN LEBANON ” belief in furthering its Corporate Social Responsibility efforts and in companies in the areas of legal services and export, accounting and Strengthening trade from and within Lebanon, the Trade Facilitation empowering all individual and business segments. With the objective of marketing, along with comprehensive services to Souk producers at Programme (TFP) of the European Bank for Reconstruction and bridging the gap between micro-businesses and their access to banking, very low cost. Development (EBRD) provided a USD 75 million trade finance line to the Bank worked on providing Souk El Tayeb’s* small-scale farmers and 3Bank Audi offering to subsidise 50% of registration fees for the Bank Audi, making it the third issuing bank in Lebanon. producers with comprehensive tailored solutions to answer their specific first 10 producers who abide by the Bank’s ethos of accountability This accord allows Bank Audi to benefit from EBRD trade finance needs and help them grow their businesses. and transparency. guarantees which cover the political and commercial payment risk of “ We created a unique initiative with Souk El Tayeb, with customised services to support their producers The training, which took place in May, allowed producers to become familiar with the basics and added value of registering their business, the costs they would incur, and the feasibility of exporting their products to trade transactions. The facility will support regional integration through trade and increased access to finance for importing and exporting firms in Lebanon, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. and help them achieve their goals. At Bank Audi, we international markets. Moreover, they were introduced to the elementary Launched in 1999, the EBRD’s TFP aims to promote foreign trade to, principles of promoting their products – whether through traditional believe that any successful business starts with an from and among the EBRD regions. Through the Programme, the communication channels or online – and to the fundamental guidelines EBRD has financed more than 22,500 foreign trade transactions for idea that turns into reality. This business can start and of creating an identity, developing brand packaging, designing their a total of more than € 16.5 billion. Currently, over 100 issuing banks ” website, and of course get a clear idea of how all of this would impact stay small, or it can grow beyond its potential. in 26 countries participate in the Programme, together with over 800 their business. Joyce Abou-Rizk, Head of SME Business Delivery confirming banks and their subsidiaries around the world. The training also covered the main principles of accounting so that Following the official announcement of this initiative, Bank Audi’s they can truly understand their profitability, the elasticity of pricing SME team visited Souk El Tayeb producers in marketplaces, immersing versus costs, the areas they can save in and those they should invest themselves in their world by consulting each member of this community. more in. They were introduced to the importance of banking for their This exercise enabled the team to genuinely understand producers’ personal and business needs, from the usage of credit cards, debit cards, business needs and relate with the challenges preventing them from cheques, transfers, to the overall importance of having a positive history developing their businesses, as well as with their general perception of of banking transactions. banking relationships. Furthermore, this initiative was filmed and broadcast on local TVs, giving These interviews led to assess the producers’ need to access information Souk El Tayeb producers further visibility. and advisory services in the fields of banking, legal, export, accounting and marketing. Based on those findings, the journey began and the Bank joined forces “ I would never have imagined that the biggest bank in Lebanon would take interest in the smallest farmers ” with leading companies in the fields of marketing, legal registration, and producers in the country; it is simply inspiring. SME Banking export and accounting. Kamal Mouzawak, Founder of Souk El Tayeb By April 2018, Bank Audi hosted an event offering Souk El Tayeb Anyone can enjoy a traditional banking service, but what made this producers: initiative unique is the distinctive offering the Bank put in place for Souk 1A special Souk El Tayeb bank account giving them the opportunity to El Tayeb producers by customising its value proposition based on their build a long-term relationship with the Bank while being eligible to a pain points and needs; an additional proof that no bank is too big to bundle of benefits. encourage the smallest of businesses. * Since 2004, Souk El Tayeb, Lebanon’s first farmers’ market, celebrates food and traditions, and brings communities together in support of small-scale producers and the expansion of sustainable agriculture. CSR REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 16 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS investment program. The forum discussed the implementation steps, INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON FINANCING DEVELOPMENT funding options and partnership options with the private sector. Dr. Barakat also chaired a panel at the ESCWA on “Financing Sustainable ASSOCIATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF RURAL CAPACITIES Development” within the context of their International Conference (ADR) The forum, which launched the IMF’s Economic Report on the Middle on Financing Development held at the UN Headquarters in Beirut. The We sustained our support to the ADR by contributing to its programs East and North Africa, featured Lifetime Achievement Awards to the panel discussed the discernable progress in more efficient sustainable of microfinance loans extended to the underprivileged at significantly Saudi Fund for Development and the participation of a Saudi economic development, but also addressed the daunting challenges that need to reduced interest rates. ADR is a Lebanese non-profit organisation delegation, as well as the participation of a high-level Egyptian economic be addressed and that could otherwise derail advancement in the matter. established in 1998 with a mission to empower and integrate delegation from the public and private sectors to discuss the economic marginalised people through sustainable economic and social developments, opportunities and climate of investment in Egypt in development by facilitating access to financial services, training, and the light of new legislations and procedures. It discussed developing tools through supporting income-generating projects. Beneficiaries are the economic partnership between the Arab countries and Africa, the small entrepreneurs, small farmers, local fishermen, rural women, and investment climate in the region and how to develop and enhance the youth from the most impoverished areas in Lebanon. the region’s attractiveness to foreign investment, and unlocking the potential of Arab youth through a Youth Dialogue. During 2018 and through the collateral program, the disbursement outreach was 457 SME beneficiaries receiving loans for a total amount of USD 973,466, of whom 31.5% were rural women entrepreneurs, out of 144 beneficiaries, with loans amounting to USD 281,990. Young borrowers aged between 18 and 35 years accounted for 45% of 206 beneficiaries receiving loans for USD 409,818. ASSOCIATION MAAK We likewise extended our support to Association Maak (NGO), benefitting 40 families who were granted microfinance loans across various economic sectors including farming, cattle and agriculture, tailoring, snacks, beauty services, and even scholarships (school and university). This went hand in hand with extending moral, technical and spiritual support to the various beneficiary households. Dr. Marwan Barakat at the Annual Harvard Arab World Conference BANK AUDI, SPONSOR AT THE ARAB ECONOMIC FORUM ANNUAL HARVARD ARAB WORLD CONFERENCE ENTITLED Under the patronage of H.E. Saad Hariri, the 26th edition of The Arab “REGION RISING” Economic Forum was held with Bank Audi as a Platinum sponsor. Dr. Marwan Barakat, Group Chief Economist and Head of Research at Organised by Al-Iktissad Wal-Aamal Group in collaboration with several Bank Audi, participated in a challenging panel about Lebanon’s future economic entities, the forum took place in the background of economic economic and financial prospects hosted by the Harvard Arab Alumni changes in the region represented by the acceleration of economic Association within the Annual Harvard Arab World Conference titled reform and the sustainable drive to diversify sources of growth, “Region Rising”, and held in Beirut. The panel, which was moderated strengthen public finances and stimulate job creation. by Dr. Habib Zoghbi, Honorary President of Harvard Alumni Association In high priority on the forum’s agenda was the investment in Lebanon’s in Lebanon, included a number of key economic figures in Lebanon. It infrastructure after the CEDRE conference in Paris, where Lebanon addressed key issues of concern, along with key opportunities in the made commitments exceeding USD 11.6 billion in grants and soft aftermath of the CEDRE conference for Lebanon. loans to finance more than 250 projects in the Lebanese government’s CSR REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 17 BANK AUDI CONNECTS WITH THE LEBANESE DIASPORA AT THE LDE CONFERENCE IN ABIDJAN THE LDE CONFERENCE IS A CHANCE TO CONNECT WITH THE LEBANESE “ The LDE Conference is a chance to connect with the Lebanese communities in Africa and Latin America, Ten international guest speakers based across various industries shared their experiences and advice with local and regional attendees. 300 Arab retailers, business owners and entrepreneurs listened eagerly as COMMUNITIES IN AFRICA AND LATIN AMERICA. where there is an exceptional network of expatriates, the speakers presented new ideas, technologies and innovations that It is no secret that there are more Lebanese living abroad than in audience members could adopt to grow and expand their businesses, businesspeople, entrepreneurs, and investors. It is a Lebanon itself; millions who have travelled across the globe and written or even launch new projects related to commerce, tourism and culture. their success stories one at a time. However, no matter how far they are, great opportunity to meet, in one place, with existing The key topics tackled were brand building, lending insight to new they remain close to their motherland. and potential customers from different countries, consumers and their consumption patterns, strategies to drive future ” In February of 2018, Bank Audi was present at the Lebanese Diaspora growth, and the merits of partnerships and collaborations. and to develop our franchise overseas. Energy (LDE) Conference in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, which, as every edition, Nader HajjAli, Regional Business Development (South America and Africa) Roundtable sessions attended by local and prominent figures, sought to connect with a network of successful people of Lebanese representing some of Lebanon’s most respected brands, discussed the origin worldwide and to spread and diversify their scopes of action on success of these businesses, the development strategies devised to the individual, national, and international levels. It was also the perfect BEIRUT INTERNATIONAL FRANCHISE FORUM AND EXHIBITION propel them forward, and the challenges faced. A keynote presentation opportunity to share experiences, enhance relations, and establish (BIFEX) tackled issues related to the world’s creative economies and the lessons business and social connections. The 2018 edition of the BIFEX titled “Retail in Lebanon: Sustainability learnt. The event concluded with a masterclass directly addressing the and Growth” and organised by the Lebanese Franchise Association (LFA) hotly debated issue of sustainable innovation, which represents a major was held in April. concern to all industries. “ The conference aims to bring together different experts to discuss brand marketing abroad. Through these panels, Lebanese franchisors are more aware of the standards outside Lebanon, and franchisees LDE Conference in Abidjan are better equipped to handle the difficulties of the Launched by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Emigrants in 2014, the Lebanese market. Aline Kamakian, LFA Board member ” LDE is an initiative aimed at celebrating the Diaspora’s achievements, reinforcing the connection with their home country and promoting Lebanese heritage across the world. The initiative aims at exploring new business and investment opportunities that would restore trust in the Beirut International Franchise Forum and Exhibition (BIFEX) Lebanese economy, and acts as a gateway for Lebanese descendants to reclaim their roots. CSR REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 18 INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS EBRD INVESTS IN BANK AUDI, LAUNCHING ITS FIRST PROJECT “We are delighted to launch our activities in Lebanon, signing the first EBRD investment with a “We are very pleased to deepen our strategic partnership with the EBRD which has already been a IN LEBANON key regional player such as Bank Audi. The Lebanese key partner for us in recent years in our operations The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) completed an equity investment in Bank Audi sal. This marks the EBRD’s financial sector is the backbone of the country’s in Egypt and Turkey. This investment in Bank Audi first-ever investment in Lebanon, and its first equity investment in a banking economic stability and international reputation. helps send a positive signal on the growth potential institution in the southern and eastern Mediterranean (SEMED) region. Supporting Bank Audi’s operations and corporate of the local economy and represents a strong vote of The EBRD acquired common ordinary shares of Bank Audi listed on the Beirut Stock Exchange, representing approximately 2.51 per cent of Bank governance is crucial in maintaining its resilience in confidence in the resilience of the Lebanese banking ” Audi’s total common shares outstanding. With this investment, the EBRD the challenging environment in the region. sector amid an unsettled regional environment. We seeks to support the Lebanese financial markets and act as a catalyst to Sir Suma Chakrabarti, President of the EBRD influence the broader economy in Lebanon, potentially playing a pivotal believe there is a strong role to play for the EBRD in role in expanding and strengthening the financial sector. Lebanon and we look forward to working closely with Bank Audi is looking to consolidate and reinforce its leadership in Lebanon and market positioning across its core countries of operations, in particular in Egypt and Turkey. the Bank as its activities develop in the country. Samir Hanna, Chairman and Group CEO ” Bank Audi is a longstanding partner of the EBRD, with investment supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as trade in Bank Audi sae (Egypt) and in Odea Bank in Turkey, in which the EBRD has also invested in equity. Lebanon became an EBRD economy of operations in September 2017, joining the Bank’s Southern and Eastern Mediterranean (SEMED) region, with Egypt, Jordan, Morocco and Tunisia, where the EBRD has been investing and engaged in policy reforms since 2012, as well as the West Bank and Gaza, since May 2017. To date, the Bank has invested over € 6.5 billion in 170 projects across the SEMED region. EBRD invests in Bank Audi 3 CSR REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 19 LEBANON INVESTMENT IN INFRASTRUCTURE CONFERENCE LIFE AND ENDEAVOR Inaugurated by Prime Minister Saad Hariri, the conference gathered The fifth edition of the Global Business Summit: “The Lebanese more than 600 participants from 20 European, Asian and Arab countries International Finance Executives (LIFE) and Endeavor” that was held in including enterprises, banks, economic organisations, development partnership with Bank Audi provides a unique opportunity for Lebanese funds, and direct investment funds in early March. Held in preparation companies and diaspora members to connect and explore business for the CEDRE conference held in Paris on April 6, the conference aimed investments. It was attended by the country’s leading entrepreneurs and to pave the way for the private sector to participate in financing 40% large companies. of the planned infrastructure projects, at a budget ranging between LIFE is a worldwide membership organisation of Lebanese diaspora USD 6 and 7 billion, in accordance with the partnership act between the financiers and is funded by individual donors, as well as by the public and private sectors. The conference was organised by Al-Iktissad country’s major banks. Established in 1997, Endeavor is a leading global Wal-Aamal Group in collaboration with the Prime Minister’s Office, the high-impact entrepreneurship movement that promotes economic High Council of Privatisation and PPP, and various Lebanese economic growth and job creation by selecting, mentoring and accelerating the bodies. It was attended by a number of present and former ministers best high-impact entrepreneurs around the world. and deputies, as well as several Arab and foreign ambassadors and heads of economic bodies. As the two joined forces, the summit was rich in established companies and startups who came to pitch in their innovative ideas to investors. Prime Minister Saad Hariri expressed his hopes that the private sector SMEs and EBRD were also part of the Global Business Summit. would be a pioneer at the CEDRE conference, stressing that he supports the reforms required from Lebanon in order to encourage the private sector and enable the state to put an end to corruption and to provide Lebanese citizens with the infrastructure they deserve. “Indeed, Lebanon starts today a new and promising era, by involving the private sector in the implementation of the infrastructure projects, especially after the approval by Parliament of the law of partnership between the public and private sectors last year. A huge and ambitious investment program is needed to relaunch the economic activity and restore the confidence of investors in Lebanon. The role that we expect from the private sector is essential for the success of the program. Samir Hanna, Chairman and Group CEO ” Infrastructure conference CSR REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 20 PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 24% Since CSR is one of our main pillars, Spring customers can participate in RURAL REMOTE AREAS different CSR activities and give back to the community. In line with our APPRECIATING 25 YEARS OF CUSTOMER LOYALTY mission to prepare young adults to enter the business world, the Bank The 25 years loyalty recognition has been Bank Audi’s tradition since 2013: encourages all Spring customers to become “Spring Ambassadors”, an appreciation gift is offered to our customers for their loyalty. This year, 700 individuals and 70 businesses were identified and offered BRANCHES 83% gaining valuable sales experience, earning commissions and benefitting MADE ACCESSIBLE of flexible working hours. bonsai plants. TO THE DISABLED LINKEDIN WORKSHOP Continuing to strengthen the youth’s professional skills, Spring held a PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY AND MARKET PRESENCE workshop in partnership with LinkedIn, during which 85 eager Springers Surveys Conducted to Measure Customer Satisfaction as per Our Quality 14% grasped tips and tricks to get started in their career. They learned how to Program Specifications RURAL REMOTE AREAS build their LinkedIn page and maximise their visibility on this networking platform in order to find the right career path. They also gained insight on the importance of marketing oneself online and connecting with the PERCENTAGE SATISFACTION 51% right people. Surveying Tool 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 HANDICAP FRIENDLY Phone survey ATMs chassis ATMs 85% SUPPORTING THE EARLY BLOSSOMS OF ENTREPRENEURSHIP were lowered MADE ACCESSIBLE USJ’s annual “Concours Entrepreneuriat” was held in May at its Human (on daily basis to assess 95% 97% 97% 99% 99% TO THE DISABLED Sciences Campus in Sodeco. Students with entrepreneurial ideas customer satisfaction at branch level) presented their projects before a jury of prominent players in the business Digital survey* and corporate fields, among whom Bank Audi’s Head of Customer (overall satisfaction – Experience Department. The Bank was also present with a Spring stand 83% 88% 90% 90% 82% all Bank Audi that welcomed students and reminded them of its constant faith in their delivery channels) SPRING ACCOUNT potential and how they can “make it big out of little”. * The “happy or not” results are no longer considered; as of 2018, the digital survey In September 2017, Bank Audi’s account for young adults aged 18 to throughout the initiative and offered valuable gifts. was integrated. 24 rolled out features inspired by the current market trends and the power of its clients. The “Don’t Just Make a Choice, Make the Right Choice with the Spring Account” campaign promotes a redemption and loyalty program, development workshops, CSR initiatives, and many other benefits. Spring customers now have an array of free, interactive and out-of-the-box workshops to choose from, that will boost their soft skills, namely their communication, problem solving, leadership and creative thinking know-how. To date, about 800 individuals attended the workshops of which 2 were in partnership with Injaz, an NGO that inspires and equips youth with the skills and mind-set needed to become the entrepreneurs and business leaders of tomorrow in their local communities. In addition, 200 individuals attended the Lebanese Food Bank workshop which raise the awareness of the youth on ways to reduce food waste. Concours Entrepreneuriat CSR REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 21 LABOUR DAY CELEBRATED OVER A WHOLE MONTH PROCUREMENT PRACTICES More importantly, the investment team in charge of 331 investments At Bank Audi, appreciating clients is not restricted to a single day. To works closely with the Customer Experience and Innovation teams at Bank Audi has strategic partnerships with the European Bank for recognise their hard work all year round, the Bank launched its annual the Bank to find potential opportunities for startups. Indeed, multiple Development and Reconstruction and the International Finance Labour Day initiative throughout the month of May, in coordination workshops/meetings with different startups are constantly being held Corporation, and is actively engaged with other multi-lateral agencies with its branches and networks. Branch Managers and Bank Audi to identify potential synergies between the Bank’s needs and startups’ and export credit agencies, including the European Investment Bank, the representatives visited 12 companies across Lebanon on various dates, offerings, along with other initiatives, to encourage innovation in Overseas Private Investment Corporation, the World Bank, SANAD Fund meeting with employees and treating them to a celebratory reception. Fintech, such as the “Beyond Banking Hackathon” by Bank Audi. These for MSME, and Green for Growth Fund, among others. MTV, Hypermarket Amliyeh, Food and Drug Corporation (FDC), and can be translated into new banking solutions which improve customer Daher Group were only a few of the companies visited. Moreover, to This contributes to promoting long-term financing to increase, diversifying experience, or complementary products offered to the Bank’s customers make this Labour Day extra special, 81 salaried employees were selected and lengthening the funding base for small and medium-scale projects while supporting startups’ growth. throughout the initiative and offered valuable gifts. in targeted industries, especially renewable energy and energy efficiency. Other programs, like the Arab Trade Finance Program, aim to promote USD 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 trade between Arab countries and enhance the productivity and BDL circular 11 26 41 47.6 48.8 competitiveness of Arab producers and exporters. These relationships 331 committed million million million million million support the Bank’s growth plans and the development of key regional investments subsidiaries and business market segments. INNOVATION USD 94% of our total MOBILE BANKING 101 million procurement budget spent on local suppliers ONLINE & BANKING APPLICATION INCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE INDUSTRIALISATION AUDI ON-LINE AND THE BANK’S Bank Audi actively contributes to BDL Intermediate Circular 331 MOBILE BANKING HAVE: through its investment in venture capital funds and several initiatives. The Bank’s purpose is to boost Lebanon’s knowledge economy sector, 113K support skilled labour market development through job creation, and Registered users actively participate in the development of a successful startup ecosystem (accelerators, incubators, VCs, etc.). To date, Bank Audi has invested in all 8 VC Funds currently on the market, with commitments totalling 85K Average transactions/month USD 47.6 million. Recently, the Bank has been contemplating to 34K participate in 100% subsidised initiatives by the Central Bank. The Bank has obtained the approval of BDL to participate in the accelerator “Speed@BDD”. It is also considering a participation in other initiatives Average daily logins which would have a similarly positive impact on the economy. EYE-CATCHING, USER-FRIENDLY AND HIGHLY Celebrating Labour Day USEFUL FEATURES! CSR REPORT 2018 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 22 “ BANK AUDI LAUNCHES CHATBOT “andi” AT ARABNET Innovation and human capacity are the pillars of BEIRUT ARAB UNIVERSITY (BAU) VIRTUAL LAB BEIRUT CONFERENCE Bank Audi and BAU inaugurated the recently developed Virtual Reality The 8th edition of the ArabNet Beirut Conference attracted nearly 2,000 the 4 th industrial revolution; they are fundamental Lab ensuring an open, innovative space for students to find inspiration, local and regional digital specialists over 3 days. It featured networking elements that contribute to improving Lebanon’s study and access an extensive collection of research material. opportunities, business deals, and the signature Startup Battle, in addition to a myriad of speakers offering a variety of technical expertise competitiveness. BDL recognises the leading role – from artificial intelligence (AI) to smart cities. As gold sponsor, Bank of the financial sector in the development and ” Audi was present alongside Banque du Liban, Beirut Digital District, modernisation of the Lebanese economy. touch, Alfa and other market leaders who were all anticipative of the Riad Salameh, Central Bank Governor Startup Battle which consisted in 10 startups pitching their business models to a panel of judges, and 3 winners announced during an award ceremony at the end of the event. BEYOND BANKING HACKATHON ArabNet has become a yearly rendezvous for entrepreneurs, tech Bank Audi and Seedstars joined forces to organise the “Beyond Banking companies and tech lovers, featuring a full track of discussions about the Hackathon” competition. The event was held over the course of 3 days best practices for digital transformation across sectors and opportunities in November. for innovators in different industries. As a leader in innovation, Bank Bank Audi’s aim during the competition was to find innovators that dare Audi’s participation at the event was accompanied by a soft launch to build, test, and pitch solutions for challenges such as reinventing the of its revolutionary chatbot “andi”, a digital assistant that automates digital banking user experience, creating a personal touch in banking, conversations between the Bank and its customers. “andi” will be imagining the banking e-advisor, and rethinking customers’ lending, available on Facebook Messenger to chat with any Facebook user who saving and transacting journeys. enters the Bank Audi page. It is fit to answer a wide number of questions and can support customers in calculating loans, locating branches and This was an opportunity for the Bank to launch an open API platform, Launching chatbot “andi” at Arabnet Beirut conference ATMs, assessing the waiting time at a given branch, and much more. the first in Lebanon, that allows external developers to experiment in a safe environment and develop new innovative digital functionalities to “andi” is a flexible software that promises more functionalities in phases be made accessible to customers. to come. Fady Obeid, Assistant Chief Operating Officer, addressed Bank Audi’s digital journey and the way forward into building the bank The competition started with brainstorming, business plan development, of the future. The first day of the conference saw high activity from and basic prototype creation sessions. Throughout the hackathon, all attendees, speakers and startups on display, with the second day participants created working startups, collaborated with like-minded focusing on one-on-one interviews with industry leaders, the latest individuals outside of their daily networks, and received valuable trends and networking opportunities with digital media experts. The feedback from local experts. winning startups were given the opportunity to travel to ArabNet’s The hackathon provided competitors with superior experiential Digital Summit in Dubai and participate in the Startup Championship education and created the perfect environment to test their ideas and for a chance to win a cash prize worth USD 20,000, as well as a take the first steps towards launching their own startup. On the last scholarship for acceleration in Silicon Valley. It is worth noting that high day, all teams pitched their ideas and presentations to a selected jury. “Beyond Banking Hackaton” competition profile guests and speakers made their way through the conference in The winning team, “Go Ahead”, composed of Wael Khattar, Antoine its early hours, such as Prime Minister Saad Hariri who got acquainted Maalouf, Hiba Hamieh, Lama Shatila and Adnan El Kawass, got the with “andi”, Telecom Minister Jamal Jarrah, and Banque du Liban opportunity to present their solution to 300 attendees at the summit’s Governor Riad Salameh; and they all shared their hopes and vision for main stage and walked away with a USD 5,000 cash prize. a tech-savvy Lebanon. MAKING THINGS HAPPEN Switching to a completely new core banking system was not In addition, there are over 180 integrations. These tools “We kept the ID and serial number of our clients’ current an easy decision. Many aspects were at stake and needed demonstrate the holistic solutions that this core banking system accounts. However, we had to change the numbers of the consideration. Following several consultations and evaluations, offers”, Tohme. loans, for instance. Each loan was given a new contract number. Bank Audi acquired one of the best breeds in core banking: So most of the client-related operations remained the same “All the existing rules and processes of Customer On-Boarding Oracle FLEXCUBE. The Bank made sure to focus on its key after the shift. As such, client-facing employees would be (COB) had to be well aligned upon migration to the new core, requirements while doing its best to least affect customers. walking their customers through the changes when and where and the logic of the old core was converted and translated For the past 3 years, a joint team from Bank Audi and Oracle applicable”, Julia Moufarrej – Lending Stream Lea.d into FLEXCUBE to ensure zero impact on all satellites and worked on all stages in order to make it happen. It was time for modules that read from the Customer Information Screens”, The aim was to make sure that we were reaching every target an updated core banking system that includes all of Bank Audi’s Nathalie Al-Akoum – COB Stream Lead. while abiding by the specific regulations of the Lebanese business requirements and that could take us to the next level market practice. “The main goal was to finish on time and meet in the 21st century. The challenge was to stick to the plan. The entire process was all the expectations for the opening date”, Jimmy Badawy – like a puzzle to put together. For example, when a developer “70% of core banking implementations globally either stop or Roll Out Project Manager, and Mira El-Hayek – Migration finished his part, the satellite team took the work and started exceed the set budget and time. The Bank made sure to stay on Project Manager. Everybody was working around the clock to the conversion related to the section. The difficulty of a core time and within budget”, Toufic Arida, Assistant COO and Head place the final touches before migration. banking system transformation is that there are no compromises. of Transformation Office. “Our main task was to finalise the requests that we were “We went through many stages, tests, trials and business “One of the early challenges was adapting to Oracle FLEXCUBE receiving from business users. They had to be be ready in order simulations as if we were going live and checked the migration and not replicating our old system”, Dalia Tohme, Senior Change to kick off the end-of-year process and start the migration to with the branches”, Chadi Morad, Migration Lead. Manager – Transformation Program Office. FLEXCUBE”, Charbel Habboub, Domain Head Core Banking. “From a training perspective, the objective was to trigger a “The customer experience always comes first. However, the December 29, 2018 was the last day employees worked on positive user adoption. The Bank needed employees to be at ease system should not disrupt the operational aspect of the Bank’s the old system. “This meant that we had to finalise all our with the system once it goes live”, Itidal Saad, Training Lead. branches”, Dania Abou Zeinab, CASA-TD Stream Lead. operations before moving to the new system”, Rita El-Khoury, “A full rehearsal was added to the testing environments, to Head of Central Operations. After finalising the end-of year In order to transfer and load the Bank’s data onto the new system, highlight in advance glitches in the operations, which the report, migration of the data had to be launched. This was a very a technical infrastructure environment needed preparation. team made sure to fix at each stage. We gave more than 1,700 clean start for the books, the systems, and even for customers. A rollout process was carried out based on a well-thought-out hours of training to make sure the operations in the branches “We had to be ready for December 31 in the afternoon to plan where every person knew their duty and the precise timing run smoothly during the go-live day”, Johnny Abou Jaoude, launch the first sanity test at the Bab Idriss branch”, Marcelle of fulfilling their tasks. “Banks usually make changes step by RT Stream Lead Attar, Head of Information Technology. step. In this case, Bank Audi wanted the transition to happen altogether. In fact, the Bank created a transformation office that Different business simulations were made in coordination with “All the hard work we had done during 3 years had paid off!”, helped bring all the various components together”, Katerina all branches, during which all employees had to redo their Dania Abou Zeinab. Confirming the migration phase, the Nikolaou, Senior Consulting Director – Oracle. normal daily operations on FLEXCUBE in such a way as to get as Finance Department was able to make sure that the data and close as possible to real scenarios. “We had to ensure that all the trial balance were ready. To make it happen, there is more to the new system than meets loan processes are well structured for a thorough credit analysis the eye. “People tend to concentrate on the core but the satellites and user friendly to avoid complexities and proceed with an involved should not be out of thought. There are 32 satellites or automatic loan booking on core”, Aline Abou-Saab – Newgen applications with more than 20 vendors involved in the process. RLOS Lead. MAKING THINGS HAPPEN “Our success pillars in the migration process were the multi-focal come their way. Having sat for intensive training sessions during Hassan Saleh, Chief Operating Officer, addressed the concerned point approach, a structured financial reconciliation, secured weeks before the D-Day, confidence prevailed. Witnessing the teams saying: “After 20 years, we are changing our core customer account balance migration, coordinated plans among move to a new core banking system on such a large scale is a banking system. We would not have reached this stage in such a IT and the business teams, and dedicated support to network once-in-a-lifetime experience. From the start of the project, professional way without your efforts and teamwork. We thank colleagues. Financial reconciliation was in accordance with the employees showed immense dedication and professionalism to you all for your hard work throughout the entire process.” migration strategy which, in turn, made the migration process the tasks. The enthusiasm of all was what made this project a Marc Audi concluded: “At Bank Audi, we are used to success. smooth”, Noura Amja, Finance Stream Lead. success. “I want to emphasise that Bank Audi employees showed We kept that pace and completed the migration on time. We an utmost level of commitment, dedication and motivation”, “The end-of-year process had ended and, starting 5 am, all ATMs even exceeded our own expectations.” He went on by relaying Mahmoud Kurdy, Country CFO. and debit cards would go offline in order for satellites to start the message of Chairman and Group CEO Samir Hanna who the conversions in parallel with the migration”, Elie Harfouch, At the Contact Centre, shifts were doubled. “We created an was keen on congratulating and thanking employees for their Integration Lead. outbound team to call back clients that we could not reach”, perseverance and dedication. Roula Chartouny, Team Leader. “Our debit and credit card systems needed to be converted in such a way as to speak the language of the new core banking “On the marketing front, in order to keep customers well system”, Walid Mneimneh, Cards Stream Lead. informed and to prepare them for the migration, the Bank developed a communication plan that was rolled out “We worked closely with the technical, business and mid-December across various channels and platforms”, communication teams in order to provide the most seamless Jad Ibrahim, Communication Lead. migration to our alternative delivery channels”, Wadih Tohme, Omni Channels Stream Lead, and Omar El-Zein, ATM Stream Lead. “The team performed outstandingly well. They really embraced the project. They knew what to expect, what to plan for, and After much anticipation, the time to go live with where the weaknesses and strengths were in the system”, FLEXCUBE had come! Katerina Nikolaou. A special room was prepared in order to keep operations “The professionalism I witnessed during the entire process is running at all times without any glitches. The space was divided up to international standards. Hats-off to everyone. This is a into streams where each employee gave a precise kind of major milestone”, Alain Nohra, Levant Technology Country support to a specific module and application. “A specific hotline Manager – Oracle. A small celebration took place, during which was created for each section depending on the type of work”, Management congratulated the employees on a job well done. Roula Obeid, PCFT Stream Lead, giving us remote access to Switching to FLEXCUBE employee screens. Bank Audi’s command centre had more than “We did not only implement a system. We implemented a way 50 resources to be able to cover all the streams and provide live of life and a way of work at the Bank”, Toufic Arida, Assistant support to branches. COO and Head of Transformation Office. “These resources were shadowing the branches, providing “We have reached our last milestone and channels migrated support and accessing their systems remotely in order to help to FLEXCUBE smoothly. These last few weeks were intense, them run everything smoothly”, Jihad Hichi, Business Manager. yet rewarding. We went live with our branches and customers as planned. This was a smooth experience and customers As the first day of FLEXCUBE got closer, all employees were were barely affected, which was our objective to start with”, eager to get the system working and start executing client Fady Obeid, Assistant Chief Operating Officer. transactions. They were ready to face any problem that might Switching to FLEXCUBE 25 CSR REPORT 2018 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 26 In line with our strong conviction of creating shared value, we collaborate with various organisations for the benefit of fostering a strong societal ecosystem and sturdy communities, touching humanitarian, health, social, educational, cultural and sports aspects. FINANCIAL INCLUSION Injaz Lebanon Global Money Week: Money Matters Matter Spring Innovation Camp As part of the Global Money Week – an internationally recognised FINANCIAL LITERACY In the spirit of the Global Entrepreneurship Week, Bank Audi’s “Be initiative by Child and Youth Finance International (CYFI) intended to These initiatives come in line with the Bank’s CSR strategy which aspires a Hero for a Day” Volunteer Program and Spring account held an promote financial literacy and empower the next generation of financial to promote financial literacy through communication with specific entrepreneurial workshop in collaboration with Injaz Lebanon, during actors to be confident, responsible, and skilled economic citizens, Bank stakeholders, and to empower future generations by educating them on which Springers teamed up to find solutions for a business case Audi invited 11th grade students for the fourth consecutive year to spend financial planning and management, savings, and social inclusion. developed by the Bank. Each team had a Bank Audi business mentor. a day at the Bank between March 12 and March 17. During these 6 days, The competing youth were given an idea about financial literacy through 518 students from 16 public and private schools attended a series of the workshop. Springers used business models to develop their ideas interactive presentations under the “Money Matters Matter” theme. KidzMondo further and present them in front of the jury and other teams. As this This year’s edition, customised by Bank Audi, introduced the 17-year olds to Located at the Beirut Waterfront, KidzMondo is a replica of a real-life inspiring day came to an end, the jury elected a winning team whose the world of banking, corporate social responsibility, career identification, city which provides children between the ages of 2 to 14 with interactive members received a 1-month internship at Bank Audi. The participating the ecosystem of startups, the advantages of entrepreneurship and and immersive vocational role play activities designed to be fun and youth came up with wonderful and feasible ideas during a limited time. innovation, challenge solving, anti-corruption and citizenship for social pedagogical, based on the concept of “edutainment” or playful learning. Injaz modules aim at fostering an understanding of the active world and accountability. Among our partners were Cedar Environmental, Synkers and This city for kids is composed of the different industries that make up a spirit of entrepreneurship through the principle of “learning by doing”. the Lebanese Transparency who shared their expertise in empowerment, the private and public sectors of a real city. Through engaging in its It also encourages young people to think globally about their enterprising becoming economically equipped and reducing inequality gaps. micro-economy, children will learn the virtues of labour and financial potential and activities. Bank Audi, through its Volunteer Program, independence. Children working in KidzMondo will gain fiscal partnered with Injaz Lebanon to contribute to various modules presented knowledge, learning how to exchange money for products or services. to public schools, orphanages and NGOs which cater to underprivileged Tallying with the “More than Money” Guests will circulate Kidlars, the city’s local currency, gaining a sense of children while sharing their experience, and therefore helping them program, a record outreach for the earning and saving. prepare for a successful career and a brighter future. Bank Audi has been 938 Global Money Week this year reached STUDENTS a total of 938 students, sharing Our impact in this micro world is all about raising awareness on a board member of Injaz Lebanon for the past 15 years. EQUIPPED essential banking knowledge and financial literacy as part of a broader sustainability goal for Bank Furthermore, the 2018-19 academic year witnessed a new exclusive teaching how to be responsible with Audi. Our conviction that financial literacy starts at a young age and partnership with the “More Than Money” module, with 420 students at money and plan out the future. our commitment to KidzMondo since 2013 offers young children 8 public schools benefiting from our volunteers’ know-how. The “More the opportunity to familiarise themselves with banking basics in a Than Money” program teaches students about earning, spending, sharing, motivational environment. saving money, and businesses they can start or jobs they can perform to earn money. Students are encouraged to use innovative thinking to learn money-management skills as they explore their career aspirations. Kidzmondo Spring Innovation Camp Global Money Week 2018 CSR REPORT 2018 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 27 Spring Account (read more) “Let’s Talk Money” NATIONAL & INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL EVENTS Spring Interschool Competition An Interactive Financial Literacy Quiz Launched in November 2017 for Following our strategy to reinforce the relationship with schools Young Adults Aged between 16 and 24 Years. Abey Festival Ghazir Festival through financial literacy and inclusion, Bank Audi organised a Spring Al Bustan Festival Jezzine Festival competition among 10 schools in the Metn Region in November 2018. The quiz allows the youth to: Al Qalaa Festival Jounieh International Festival A fun and educational quiz competition included several topics such as • Learn about personal finance Amchit Festival Jounieh Spring Festival the 75 years of independence, math and critical thinking, technology • Test their financial knowledge Amyoun Festival Jounieh Summer Festival and innovation, banking, Lebanese poets, and events from 2018. In its • Receive an e-certificate and reward Baalback festival Kartaba Carnival first phase, more than 650 students sat for a written exam. The students prepped for the exam and were enthusiastic to take it. Participating This financial literacy website features 6 different modules: Baalbackiyat Festival Kartaba Festival students came from Collège des Soeurs des Saints Coeurs – Bauchrieh • Introduction to Banking Batroun Festival Kfardebian Festival and Ain Najm, Beirut Evangelical School – Rabieh, Champville, • Spend vs Save Beirut Chants Live Ashrafiyeh Congrégation Religieuse de la Sainte Famille, Collège des Frères Mont La • Retail Products & Services Beirut Cultural Festivals Live Love Jounieh Salle, Rosaire – Mansourieh, Eastwood College, Brummana High School, • Credit Cards Beiteddine Festival Maghdouche Festival and Val Pere Jacques Bkennaya. The top 3 performing students from • Bank of the Future each school were selected to participate in the next round in 2019. • CSR Bent Jbeil Festival Rachaya Festival (animated by the Bank’s To date, 2,285 young adults participated in the game. Byblos International Festival “Awdiyat” band) Cedars Festival Saida International Festival Ehdeniyat Festival Tripoli Festival LOCAL COMMUNITY SUPPORT Eid El Sayde Festival Antoura Zahle Festival Zouk Festival Faqra Club USD USD 9 million 1 million Total contributions Health to the community USD USD Spring Interschool Competition 7 million 880,000 Humanitarian and social Culture Codi Academy 17 students of the Codi Academy, a training centre fostering digital and technical skills for underprivileged and marginalised youth in Lebanon, spent a day at Bank Audi to learn more about banking, with an introduction to the world of banking, plastic money and e-payments, retail loans and SME loans, and combating financial crime. Rachaya Festival CSR REPORT 2018 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 28 FEATURING NGOS Through our social media, we featured various NGOs such as CCCL, “The new government should give priority to the rescue culture, especially since the number of Roads for Life, My School Pulse, GCNL, Lebanese Food Bank, Lebanese Red Cross, Ajialouna, Step Together, Heartbeat, Injaz, Kibarouna, and traffic accident victims over the first six months of Amour et Partage, in an effort to shed more light on their contributions 2018 has not witnessed any significant decrease ” to society. It is worth noting that impacts reached over 300,000 users and compared to 2017. reactions summited at 800. Zeina Kassem, RFL President CULTURE The 44 hospitals and entities which took part in the ATLS and ATCN Prix Phénix de la Littérature sessions included: Hammoud Hospital, Lebanese American University The “Prix Phénix de la Littérature” 2018 edition was granted to Dr. Fadi Medical Centre – Rizk Hospital, AUBMC, Sheikh Ragheb Harb Hospital, Comair for his book “Hydrodiplomatie et Nexus” published by Johanet. Military Hospital, Saint George Hospital, Rafik Hariri University Hospital, Classic Reloaded. Mediterranea Exibition at Villa Audi the Lebanese University’s Faculty of Medicine, the International Committee of the Red Cross, Kesserwan Medical Centre, the specialised gunshot wounds trauma centre in Tripoli, Ain w Zein Hospital, Bellevue LOCAL COMMUNITY COLLABORATION Medical Centre, Mount Lebanon Hospital, Notre-Dame University Hospital and Labib Medical Centre. Kassem affirmed that “remote areas, PARTNERING WITH THE CIVIL SOCIETY especially the Baalbeck-Hermel region, have the highest recorded rate of deadly traffic accidents.” She also explained that “Roads for “Embrace” Fashion Show: Putting Mental Health in the Spotlight Life has developed its capacities and array of services, which will For the first time in Lebanon, a charity fashion show bringing together soon include new rescue sessions aiming to teach ordinary citizens some of the most reputed names in the fashion industry placed the the skills needed to stop bleeding in all kinds of traumatic injuries, issue of mental health in centre stage. The Sursock Museum saw models thus helping save additional lives all over Lebanon.” lighting up the runway with mind-blowing pieces by Lebanese designers Prix Phénix de la Litterature: Dr. Fadi Comair and Mrs. Christiane Audi while carrying various awareness messages on an issue that is much Hôpital Psychiatrique de la Croix neglected in the country. The event also set the stage for launching a The contribution made to the publication of the scientific and social dedicated helpline to individuals suffering from mental conditions. The journal “Assabil” raises awareness on the importance of mental health Classic Reloaded. Mediterranea: Another Art Must by Bank Audi “Lifeline”, reachable at 1564, is set to provide support to mental patients and its risks, as well as on psychic disorders. To date, little knowledge is Curated by the prestigious MAXXI Museum of Modern Arts in Rome and or their support systems. Embrace, an NGO that helps prevent suicides available on the fight against the prejudices and stigmatisation of people featuring 20 of its artworks, Villa Audi hosted an important exhibition and resolve mental health issues, is proudly sponsored by Bank Audi. suffering from mental disorders to improve their integration into society. featuring 13 Italian contemporary artists under the title “CLASSIC RELOADED. MEDITERRANEA.” Organised in collaboration with the Roads for Life Calls for a Bigger Regard to Rescue Culture amid Brave Heart Italian Embassy, the Italian Cultural Centre in Beirut and the Sursock High Rates of Traffic Accidents In the last year, 200 children in need of urgent medical assistance were Museum, the exhibition aimed to consolidate ties between the classical The ceremony, held at the American University of Beirut Medical Centre offered lifesaving heart surgeries. The objective of supporting this lifesaving traditional arts of the Mediterranean shores (Greco-Roman mosaics of (AUBMC), delivered certificates to the 68 participants in the ATLS mission is to help children in need. The Brave Heart Fund has treated the Bank Audi collection) and the very contemporary Italian art scene, (Advanced Trauma Life Support) and ATCN (Advanced Trauma Care for more than 3,546 children diagnosed with Congenital Heart Disease thus showing the connections, dialogue and complementarity of these Nurses) training sessions sponsored by RFL’s strategic partners. (CHD) in the last 14 years. Every 12 hours, a baby is born with CHD cultures and civilisations. in Lebanon, the leading cause of death in the first year of life if left untreated. Brave Heart Fund’s motto is: “no child should die of heart disease because of lack of funds.” CSR REPORT 2018 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 29 Openminds Oum el Nour Chance In partnership with this NGO which deals with autism, various awareness This non-profit, non-governmental organisation is currently celebrating With CHANCE Association, children continue their fight against cancer projects were organised across the community and integrated in 10 its 30th anniversary as a pioneer organisation offering drug prevention, and look for a brighter future. schools. Additionally, 102 families in need were helped at the AUBMC education, and rehabilitation and reintegration services to persons with Special Kids Clinic. Ahlouna substance use disorder. To date, they have welcomed nearly 8,000 young women and men in their struggle with drug addiction, services provided to all free of cost and of any discrimination. “CHANCE just fills my heart with passion, it never ceases to amaze me how this small group of people Together, we have supported the education of orphans and children The success of Oum el Nour has always depended greatly on the generosity accomplishes so much and in such short time. This with special needs, as well as underprivileged elderly and families. We of its contributors, such as Bank Audi. The most recent contribution world is truly a better place just because they give were able to contribute to the tuition of a number of children and to implied the continuation of the prevention and treatment programs which cater to the needs of few disadvantaged persons. provided awareness sessions on the use of 16 substances, thus allowing an outreach to 480 youth aimed at living healthier drug-free lives. it the CHANCE to be one. CHANCE survivor ” Tamanna Al Younbouh Tamanna makes sick children’s wishes come true. Together, we were Socio-economic Development in Rural Communities – “Walk with Al Younbouh”, a race sponsored by Bank Audi since its able to turn Hadi’s (17 years old) tears into laughter by providing Jabal Moussa UNESCO Biosphere Reserve inception, was created to raise awareness on people with special needs accommodation and travel to visit Madrid to meet his favourite players In 2018, our support allowed the enhancement of Jabal Moussa’s in Lebanon. 65 students were offered a wide range of educational and from Ciudad de Real Madrid. food products, specifically the “mixed zaatar” product, from source to recreational activities. market, benefitting more than 20 local households. In addition, improved material was purchased for the packaging of the Heartbeat product, and allowed its introduction in specialised urban areas outlets, In 2018, the contribution of Bank Audi in Heartbeat concert and gala which will improve its demand and therefore secure the sustainability of dinner helped save the life of 35 children born with heart disease. Our the project for the years to come. partnership with Heartbeat dates back to 2005, since the inception of the association. “Many children of financially deprived families are born with heart disease. You can feel pity and pray for their unlikely recovery, or you can do something. Tamanna You can deal with this the easy way, or you can do Assameh Birth and Beyond it the heart way. Pr. Victor Jebara, Vice-President, Heartbeat ” 900 patients were treated at governmental hospitals with a treatment matching that of private hospitals, among whom 150 babies were admitted in premature intensive care for medium to longer treatment. “Contributions from the private sector and individual citizens have become a necessity. Our babies deserve the right to be born, Jabal Moussa to live healthily, and to enjoy life like all other young citizens.” CSR REPORT 2018 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 30 LOCAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Child’s Day World Food Day Worldwide, June 31 celebrates “International Children’s Day”. In 2018, To provide relief to households in need, the Lebanese Food Bank NATIONAL DAYS Bank Audi made sure to greet children in person: more than 3,000 stuffed (LFB) collects surplus food from partner restaurants, hotels, caterers, Celebrating Teachers toys were offered to children who walked into our branches with their supermarkets, grocery stores, and food exporters/importers, and In honour of the teachers who are a core asset in shaping a healthy society, parents, and to kindergarteners at different schools. It is never too early distributes them daily to more than 70 Lebanese NGOs supporting Bank Audi launched its annual Teachers’ Day initiative on March 9, in to establish a relationship with tomorrow’s generation. The initiative was families and individuals in need. On the occasion of World Food Day, coordination with the Bank’s branches and networks. Branch Managers highly commended by parents who appreciated the Bank’s thoughtfulness, and in collaboration with the Lebanese Food Bank, Bank Audi organised and Bank Audi representatives visited more than 8,000 teachers from 72 not only towards its customers, but also towards their children. a special workshop for Spring account holders to raise awareness on schools across the country. There, they met with the schools’ faculty and food waste and ways of reducing it. Touched and incentivised by this staff, and treated them to a special breakfast and pleasant giveaways human cause, a big number of participants volunteered to become LFB with messages such as “A teacher touches lives forever” and “Teaching ambassadors and roll out in turn to their own schools. is a work of heart”. The Bank greeted the teachers among its customers with heart-warming words on their day. TRIBUTE TO THE ARMY Similarly, trainers at the Bank Audi Training Academy received appreciation The Heart of the Nation: A Book on the Lebanese Army Worth a gifts on Teacher’s Day. Since many of our employees represent the Thousand Words teaching profession in our miniature society by being trainers in our “The Heart of the Nation” was launched on August 1, 2018 at Villa Audi, Training Academy, Bank Audi chose the date of March 9 to recognise on Army Day, in the presence of General Joseph Aoun – Commander of its trainers who contribute to improving the Bank’s human capital by the Lebanese Armed Forces, Samir Hanna – Chairman and Group CEO Celebrating International Children’s Day coaching employees who need guidance. of Bank Audi, and Marc Audi – General Manager Lebanon. A number of army officials were also present, along with members of various security services and key staff from the Bank. International Nurses’ Day In celebration of International Nurses Day, Bank Audi visited 7 hospitals across Lebanon to show nurses their appreciation on behalf of everyone at the Bank. 1,269 nurses were offered branded mobile cardholders as a reminder of Bank Audi’s support and gratitude for their selfless giving. 1,269 nurses were offered branded mobile cardholders as a reminder of Bank Audi’s support and gratitude for their selfless giving Tribute to the Army Celebrating Teachers’ Day CSR REPORT 2018 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 31 “We anchor fundamental values such as human capital, civic role and heritage. This helps us map a Inauguration of the Army College Auditorium Widely known for its constant support of the Lebanese Army, Bank Audi inaugurated, on December 6, 2018, the Fouad Chehab – Army College In turn, Mrs. Claudine Roukoz, President of the National Commission for Lebanese Women, called on the Lebanese “to focus on the magnificence of their country and its human course of action for every individual to follow and Auditorium, a project the Bank has sponsored from the very beginning. resources, to join efforts to preserve Lebanese rights and equality, The inauguration took place in the presence of the Army Commander, to promote a culture of respect, and to face the challenges that reach his ends. Of course, this requires positivism General Joseph Aoun, and Samir Hanna, Chairman and Group Chief have continued from the independence to date.” and countless victories, but above all, it takes brave Executive Officer of the Bank, as well as the military council, a number She added: “The competition aims to enhance the spirit of of officers, and Board members of the Bank. men and women to win them, as they represent the belonging among Lebanese students, and to highlight the cultural and artistic creativity of young Lebanese.” true character and genuine essence of our nation 75 Years of Independence in its most powerful way, through honour, sacrifice Under the patronage of Mrs. Nadia Aoun, the First Lady of Lebanon, The top three students were granted prizes courtesy of Bank Audi. the Rachaya Municipality and the Rachaya Festival Committee, a special and loyalty. It is through the modern art that is Mrs. Christiane Audi, President of Fondation Audi, underlined that press conference was held to announce the Poster and Logo Design supporting such national activities aims at promoting Lebanon’s image photography, which pays tribute to moments in time Competition targeting university students and consisting in designing as a country marked by human heritage and creative wealth. The the best visual poster celebrating the 75th commemoration of Lebanon’s and in history, that I salute the Lebanese soldier of winners, Christelle Khoury (1st), Georgia Labaki and Mira Khoury (2nd), independence. The launch was held at Villa Audi. and Ahmad Mazloum (3rd), explained the expressive dimensions of their yesterday, today and tomorrow. Samir Hanna, Chairman and Group CEO ” Following a difficult jury selection, the award ceremony and closing exhibition were held at the old citadel in Rashaya. The First Lady drawings which focused on Lebanon’s independence in a distinctive artistic style. praised the organisers for this national initiative commemorating our independence, the Lebanese people’s pride and joy. The book, is a joint initiative by Bank Audi, the Lebanese Army, and professional photographer Jeremy Chivers, pays tribute to the outstanding efforts, sacrifices, activities and victories of our soldiers. “Most Lebanese aren’t as lucky as I was,” said Chivers, “to be able to get out into the field, to see what the LAF actually did day by day, month on month, year on year, to safeguard the republic and the constitution.” His thoughts went out to the veterans and martyrs of the Army and to their families who will benefit from the profits of the book’s sale. General Joseph Aoun seized the occasion to thank Bank Audi for making this initiative possible, and for its continuous support to the Lebanese Armed Forces. He underlined that “The Heart of the Nation” relates, through brilliantly taken photos, the daily lives of Lebanese soldiers, as well as their competencies, their extensive training, and their ability to complete their missions as professionally as possible.” The related photo exhibition was hosted at Villa Audi – SOFIL. 75 years Independance competition CSR REPORT 2018 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 32 HEALTH MATTERS… Nurses Leading the Vision for Global Health SPORTS ACHIEVEMENTS The second International Nursing conference, “Nurses Leading the Vision A Medical Congress for Global Health”, organised by the Order of Nurses in Lebanon, was Bank Audi sponsored the 23rd congress of the Saint George Hospital University Medical Centre in Beirut. The congress, which addressed a vast variety of topics including neurology, paediatrics, oncology, and many more, supported by Bank Audi in collaboration with the International Council of Nurses and national nursing associations. 1 st place Football Co-League Mini Tournament gathered distinguished regional and international speakers. A scientific The main objectives of the conference were to empower and engage exhibition was held in parallel, providing companies with an opportunity nurses to be stronger patient advocates at global and national levels, and 2 to interact with international experts, industry leaders and a diverse group to improve evidence-based care of patient populations by elevating the nd Football BDL League of participants from physicians and other health care professionals. voice and influence of nursing on health policy and outcomes. Football Inc. place This international conference targeted nurses practicing in different settings such as hospitals, primary health care centres and schools, in addition to educators in the health professions (nursing faculty members, clinical educators and nurse researchers), hospital management, and quality improvement and patient safety professionals. 3 rd place Football Lebanese Syndicate of Bank Employees The conference, which included plenaries, breakout sessions and workshops, hosted 7 prominent international speakers from Geneva, Canada, the USA, South Africa and other countries, and gathered more than 300 delegates and 1000 participants from around the region. 23rd congress of the Saint George Hospital University Medical Centre Physio Beirut Event Bank Audi’s support also went to the congress of the Order of Physiotherapists, Physio Beirut 2018, where keynote speakers and panel discussions led to optimising the practice of physiotherapy in the country, in line with international standards. Football BDL League Physio Beirut 2018 CSR REPORT 2018 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 33 Bank Audi Runs for The Human Rights Watch On the morning of November 11, the Beirut International Marathon 652 57 took place in the Lebanese capital. 400 Bank Audi employees, alongside UNITS OF their friends and families, chose to run for The Human Rights Watch, BOOKS BLOOD in defence of the right of people worldwide. The marathon attracted around 43,000 runners from different backgrounds and age groups, bringing fun and joy to the city all while running for a good cause. 2,192 300 During this year’s edition, athletes from 99 countries challenged KG OF IT KG OF themselves to get to the finish line and be acclaimed winners. The OBJECTS CLOTHES marathon inspires unity and positive change, promotes wellness, and My School Pulse Marathon provides an experience of challenge. DONATIONS There is no limit to what you can give back to the community. That’s what Bank Audi believes, and that’s why it has been organising several donation campaigns for several years in a row now. In 2018, Bank Audi employees donated a total of 652 books, spanning school and university books, textbooks and stories. They were all Donating blood to save lives donated to St. Vincent de Paul which displayed them for free at its annual book fair, offering the poor a sustainable access to books and self-education. VOLUNTEER PROGRAM Bank Audi Runs for The Human Rights Watch In partnership with “arcenciel”, Bank Audi organised a two-day initiative Continuing to match our corporate charitable donations with a direct for the donation of clothes, shoes and accessories for all ages. Almost human involvement through its corporate “Be a Hero for a Day” Program, 300 Kg of clean and decent clothes and accessories were gathered and the Volunteer Program was further developed by organising departmental My School Pulse: a Cause Close to the Heart donated through the NGO to people in need. and team building activities. The program encouraged employees to For the 9th year in a row, Bank Audi sponsored the MySchoolPulse engage and give back to the neediest, and raised their awareness on This year, two blood drives were conducted in collaboration with the marathon, the main fundraising event for the MySchoolPulse Lebanese important social, educational and environmental issues. In 2018, the “Be Lebanese Red Cross and Donner Sang Compter (DSC), during which 35 NGO which provides children undergoing treatment for life-threatening a Hero for a Day” Program and its volunteers genuinely demonstrated blood units were donated, saving 105 lives during the first round, and illnesses with the chance to continue their education through tailored how we embrace a culture of high engagement and responsibility. 22 blood units were donated in the second one, saving 66 lives. lessons adapted to their needs. Such social investment programs have a significant impact on employees’ On Earth Day, employees were invited to give away their unwanted The marathon, which took place at Faqra Club, saw runners, joggers performance at work, and increase the feeling of fulfilment by committing electronics, such as TVs, tablets, phones, music players, keyboards, and walkers of all ages participating enthusiastically. 117 Bank Audi to these community outreach and volunteerism initiatives. hard disks, CD-ROMs, cables, and monitors. Additionally, the Bank’s I.T. employees and their families took part in a day spent in a wonderful outdoor setting featuring numerous activities and events. Above all, and thanks to 2,144 participants, the marathon raised enough funds to Department offered its own e-waste for recycling. A total of 2,192 Kg of E-waste were collected to the benefit of Beeatouna and Association 16 359 de L’Écoute for refurbishing and recycling purposes. NGO partners Volunteers provide schooling for 100 hospitalised children. 4,362 1,575 Beneficiaries Hours Partner NGOs Mission Activities Amour et Provides underprivileged elderly Training around 200 Springers to raise awareness Spending an evening with 23 elderlies. Fights and overcomes hunger Partage with a dignified life. on food waste in their old schools, and to support by developing effective feeding this initiative. Overall, 10 sessions were rolled out Lebanese Food programs, in parallel with Ayadina Helps underprivileged children across Lebanon. Serving lunch to 40 elderlies. Bank development and awareness Association and elderly. programs aimed at Preparing and distributing 54 ready-made food packages of beans, rice, flour, tuna, cereals, etc. Beit El Yateem eliminating hunger. Supports orphans. Assisting 35 orphans in an extreme sports competition. to needy families by the Retail Department. El Derzi Saint Vincent de Serves the poor with love, respect, Provides all children with cancer in Serving lunch to the elderly. Assisted in the “Home Sweet Hope” campaign Paul justice and joy. Lebanon and the region, without CCCL any discrimination, with access to and received more than 700 phone calls during Orphan Welfare a telethon with Marcel Ghanem. Inviting and accompanying underprivileged children free treatment. Society Saida Cares for orphans. to KidzMondo. Eradicates poverty and seeks to (OWSS) protect, analyse, and monitor the Inviting and accompanying underprivileged Cedars for Care coastal and marine environment Cleaning Ramlet al Bayda beach in collaboration children to KidzMondo. (OBBA) against misuse or degradation, with 42 interns. Villages Provides a home for orphans. Delivering a capacity building workshop. and actively works on resolving d’Enfants S.O.S. Hot chocolate afternoon with 38 children, playing such issues. board games. Cleaning the hunting fields of Deir al Qamar by Improves students’ life through Clean the Deir al Qamar forest. the Retail Department as part of a teambuilding Step Together individualised tuition and therapy. Interacting with 24 children with learning difficulties. and environmental volunteer project. Participating in the cleaning of Ramlet Empowerment Creates integrated, supportive al Bayda beach. spaces that empower participants Through to break down social stigmas and Guiding visually impaired persons during the ETI Integration (ETI) Life Skills program at AUB, in collaboration with create positive social change. 12 interns. Houlmouna Cares for the elderly. Celebrating Mother’s Day with 35 elderlies. Assists socially and economically vulnerable communities with the aim of easing their suffering, Howard Assisting and entertaining 100 underprivileged enabling them to lead healthy, Karagheusian productive lives, and empowers children, in collaboration with 24 interns. them to achieve economic self-sufficiency. Equips youth with the needed skills and mind-set to become Delivering “More than Money” sessions for the entrepreneurs, business leaders benefit of 450 students from public schools. Injaz and sought after employees, Delivering the Innovation Camp for Springers on stimulating their communities financial literacy. and contributing to Volunteer Program economic development. Interns’ volunteer day: entertaining 35 elderlies at the yearly camp. Kibarouna Cares for the elderly. Celebrating Christmas with 100 elderlies. Hosting grandparents’ day with 1000 seniors at the Palais des Congrès. Recognising our Volunteers SOCIAL MEDIA CSR posts showcase Bank Audi employees engaging with the community, include images from events, or feature a clear call to action, in addition to updating our community on recent upgrades and relevant interventions. Below a sample of some of our posts on various sites and their engagements. RECYCLING PROGRAM Facebook December 27, 2018 WOMEN’S EQUALITY DAY LinkedIn August 24, 2018 Reach Impressions 294,200 35,216 Reactions Clicks 1,731 1,333 Views Interactions 172,000 363 KIBAROUNA’S FEATURE Instagram November 26, 2018 MY SCHOOL PULSE Instagram August 7, 2018 Reach Reach 90,414 226,081 Social actions Social actions 792 189 36 CSR REPORT 2018 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 37 Cultivating human talent is one of our top priorities at Bank Audi. Being one of the largest private sector employers in Lebanon, we value the importance of nurturing human talent in all its guises, whether inside the Bank by investing in our own employees, or outside it by investing in the development of external nation-wide human talent. TRAINING, EDUCATION AND TALENT DIVERSITY, INCLUSION AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY DEVELOPMENT USD USD 47% 53% 721 K 360,788 Invested in employee training Invested in support of our 1.48% 4.25% and development employees’ development RATIO OF STANDARD HUMAN CAPITAL ENTRY-LEVEL WAGE BY TURNOVER – BROKEN 120 K 2,187 GENDER COMPARED TO LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE DOWN BY GENDER: 4.84% MALE VS. 3.66% FEMALE Silver Jubilee Training hours deployed Training academy participants EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY LABOUR PRACTICES Evaluating the level of “happiness” at Bank Audi based on the Employee Engagement Survey of 2017, we noted that: 25 YEARS OF LOYALTY – CELEBRATING THE SILVER JUBILEE OF 1. 61% expressed employee job satisfaction (same score as global 69% BANK AUDI EMPLOYEES Another year goes by with yet another crowd of Bank Audi’s loyal banks, with Middle East banks scoring 49%). 2,231 EMPLOYEES SUCCESSFULLY TRAINED Equally split in terms of gender employees recognised for their efforts. 30 Bank Audi employees were 2. 47% perceived fairness of opportunities (3 points lower than global banks and 2 points higher than Middle East banks). representation, covering all levels honoured for their loyalty at Bank Audi Plaza in Downtown Beirut. 4. Average Longevity on the Job (tenure) – Average of 11.10 years to date. of employment Bank Audi’s Lebanon Country Manager, Marc Audi, who warmly thanked 5. 82% acknowledged implemented innovations (34 points higher the attendees and praised them for their hard work, inaugurated than global banks; no benchmark with Middle East banks). the event; he went on to say that Bank Audi regards their lifetime of service as a true testimony of their dedication and loyalty to the Bank. As part of our determination to retain our employees, we make sure that He continued: “The year you joined the Bank was the year that they take the time needed to nurture their new-borns and cater to their the world wide web was booming. And together, we graduated needs. We also provide space for them to resume their work and fulfil to being experts in the field.” Following the speeches, the jubilees their career aspirations. took the floor to receive their elaborately engraved silver awards, and proceeded to take the ceremonial group picture with Mr. Audi. Everyone then made it to the “I Love BA” photo booth which was set up for the occasion, before honouring the cocktail reception. 1751 3018 The number of beneficiaries from Total number of visitors to the the influenza vaccine in 2018 infirmary in 2018 CSR REPORT 2018 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 38 BENEFITS EXTERNAL HUMAN DEVELOPMENT BANK AUDI HONOURS TOP STUDENTS AT LA SAGESSE SCHOOLS USD Under the title “L’innovation au Coeur des Générations”, the annual 101,725 “Blé Vert” event took place at La Sagesse Brasilia to honour academic excellence and innovation. This yearly event, was held under the Wellness programs patronage of H.E. Boulos Matar, Archbishop of the Maronite Church in Beirut, and Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon, recognised 158 students for their distinguished performance. USD USD 200.9 MILLION 704,314 5G GOLD UNITS “Culture is education, a vision, and openness. It is broadening one’s horizons to various sectors: new Blé Vert cultures and arts, new educations and technologies. Salaries and benefits Traditional annual end-of-year gifts to It is a type of upbringing and the ability to accept “MUSIC TO THE EARS” WORKSHOP our employees During the month of October, the Spring Account gave way to a different all others. Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon ” path of workshops. Two unique music workshops were organised to help the youth boost their skills. Bank Audi, in collaboration with Isar Music EMPLOYEE WELLNESS Atelier, welcomed Springers who are passionate about music, who got to learn about musical theory, harmony, solfege, music composition, Total USJ STUDENTS REWARDED production and singing. This variety of educational and fun workshops Activity CLUB Description Beneficiaries In line with the Bank’s constant mission to support students in their helps the youth acquire new skills, promote innovation, strengthen their Participation of Band academic path, Bank Audi once more sponsored the scholarship interpersonal connections, and create lifelong memories! Beirut Jazz ceremony of Université Saint-Joseph (USJ) at Bank Audi Plaza, during 200 Music Club Audi in the Beirut Day which 7 students were granted scholarships for their academic Jazz Day. Participation in the achievement, under the theme “A Common Mission – Creating Leaders Beirut Corporate of the Future”. Academics are a key factor in building an intellectually Games organised by aware society. Through the solid partnership with USJ, which celebrates Sport Evasion. This education and rewards students for their hard work, Bank Audi aims to Beirut sport festival aims to encourage students to seek academic excellence. The event consisted Corporate 150 Sports Club encourage companies in a round table discussion with Marc Audi in the presence of Reverend Games to support their Father Salim Daccache, Dean of the University, alongside members of employees' pursuit of Bank Audi’s Management. Certificates were then distributed to the a healthier and more scholarship winners. active life style. “ Scholarship ceremony of Université Saint-Joseph (USJ) Outing to 201 Community Visit of Arnaoun. It is specifically in this context that the partnership Arnaoun Club between Bank Audi and USJ is enriched and Outing to Community Cultural visit to 123 Becheleh Club Becheleh. strengthened. We both share the same objective: Children to invest our power in top students and give them Community Activity for Empowerment 58 ” Club employees' children. Day the necessary means to start a solid career. Marc Audi, Country Manager Lebanon CSR REPORT 2018 HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 39 “THROUGH THE LENS” WORKSHOP PROFAMILY EXCELLENCE REWARDED As part of its career and networking pillar, and in order to partake in Academics are a key factor in building an intellectually aware society the youth’s lifestyle, the Spring Account is always looking for fun and that thrives to develop towards the best. In this perspective, Bank Audi unique ways to strengthen Springers’ skills. Hence the collaboration held its annual Profamily celebration for the 11th consecutive year, with leading photographer Sayde Jabra to offer the youth an artistic during which 15 children of fellow colleagues were rewarded for their workshop and enhance their creative thinking. Attendees were given exceptional results in the Baccalaureate – Part II. This comes as a step tips and tricks on how to use photographic tools, learning how to take a to encourage teenagers to seek education and academic excellence, for good picture and setting up for a photoshoot. Jabra focused on each and ambitious careers and a brighter future. every participant, helping them improve their capabilities. Springers left • 1st prize received USD 20,000 for achieving an overall average of 18.25. the workshop inspired and enriched with new tactics of photography. • 2nd prize received USD 15,000 for achieving an overall average of 18.11. This created an interactive community where lucky participants network, • 3rd and 4th prizes received USD 5,000 each for achieving an overall “Through the Lens” Workshop meet and engage with new people, all while strengthening their skills. average of 17.84 and 17.44 respectively. • 11 students received USD 1,000 each for achieving overall averages ranging between 14.23 and16.63. A TASTY LEARNING EXPERIENCE A special session for 18 gourmet Springers was organised at KitchenLab Each year, the Bank celebrates education by rewarding and motivating Beirut to prepare a brunch like no other. As an entertaining activity to our colleagues’ children, allowing them to study hard and shine. develop their time management, creative thinking and soft skills, they The program aims at shoring up their future careers and opening were required to prepare poached eggs with sausages, English muffins opportunities for success. and pancakes in only 30 minutes! The winners were invited to attend sessions on how the Bank operates within its different departments, and received important information on personal finance and on customers’ rights. During the program, they were also coached on important skills in terms of professional conduct, such as how to deliver a presentation or how to perform during a job interview. So far, Bank Audi has rewarded more than 100 qualified students in the context of the Profamily Program. Special session at KitchenLab Profamily awardees CSR SPREADS THE WORD We continue to be involved, spread the word, and share best CSR Razan Zaidan was the 1st place winner for her project “Amali” which consisted in creating a new account for unemployed women, free of fees for the first 2 years, to empower them, enhance their potential and practices through our involvement with various efforts and key activities give them a chance to get financially involved. The project also recommended organising a yearly event across Lebanon. where these women can sell their homemade products and generate revenue. Magaly Abboud was the 2nd place winner for her proposed financial literacy game, an interactive app Date Conference Topic Presented by Venue allowing children and youth to play a virtual reality game and handle real life banking activities such as CSR, Human Resources training Hasmig Khoury saving, having a loan and spending money. AUL January and development, and CSR, HR and SME Naimee Louis Campus Entrepreneurship Joyce Abou-Rizk Fayez Maddah was the 3rd place winner for his financial literacy board game which includes puzzles, GCNL and UNDP: Anti-corruption questions and tests. The game can be played with family and friends: players are required to answer each February Anti-corruption intoductory notes Hasmig Khoury AUB others’ questions on financial knowledge, and gain points when the answer is correct. GCNL: SDG 8 Decent Work and SDG 8 Focus Group as Goal All three winners won cash prizes, and the first place winner was offered an internship opportunity at Marc Audi AUB Economic Growth focus group Leader in Lebanon September Bank Audi, as well as the chance to implement her project. GCNL: Sustainability workshop Start Up Your Berytech Hasmig Khoury with Berytech and BDD Sustainability Impact BDD GCNL: Multistakeholder SDG Grand Forum Panelist for SDG 8 Marc Audi Serail Social Impact Award October The eighth edition of the Social Economic Award (SEA) saw Bank Audi receive the “Social Impact Award” Statement focusing on PM during the ceremony that was held at Casino du Liban. Hasmig Khoury, Head of CSR Unit, accepted this CEO roundtable SDG 8; achievements Marc Audi Residence and challenges recognition on behalf of the Bank. “Awards challenge businesses in continuous contributions made 11th Annual Conference of the towards the community. This builds a stable economy and furthers humanity.” Arab Forum for Environment The Business Case for Bristol and Development (AFED): Financing Sustainable Jean Traboulsi This comes to crown the tremendous efforts deployed by the Bank to promote and support Financial Hotel Financing Sustainable Development Inclusion in the community. The event was held to celebrate public and private sector institutions for their November Development in Arab Countries CSR initiatives, SEA awards gaining increasing regional credibility year-on-year. Pillar 7 Economic National Consultation on Development and Job Grand Preventing Violent Extremism Hasmig Khoury Creation (workshop Serail (PVE) participation) Responsible Millennials The “Responsible Millennials” competition was launched during RAZAN ZAIDAN a CSR university awareness session, to encourage youth to think responsibly and come up with a feasible and innovative project on financial inclusion, which needs to be aligned with Bank Audi’s CSR strategy. MAGALY ABBOUD Out of 12 submitted proposals, 4 were shortlisted by an external jury and finalists presented their projects to the Bank’s CSR Committee. FAYEZ MADDAH University students competition 41 CSR REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 42 MAKE A GREEN STATEMENT BANK AUDI GETS IT SORTED AT FAQRA CLUB MEA CAMPAIGN In addition to the above locations, Bank Audi dedicated its space at Furthering our pledge towards SDG 13 – Climate Action, Bank Audi Considering climate change impacts, Bank Audi launched the “Make a Faqra Club last summer to raising awareness about the importance of supported MEA’s campaign which consisted in displaying a 30-second Green Statement” initiative in July 2018 by inviting all Bank Audi credit waste sorting at the source. The initiative was also highlighted in a social ad on MEA flight screens during peak seasons. The promotion cardholders to switch their credit card statement from paper version to media campaign to further engage the citizens of an elite community. aimed at encouraging people to visit a user friendly navigation site, electronic version. The space was divided into a 3-sectional wall, with a green wall on www.greenerlebanon.org, and to locate recycling and upcycling “ the left, a branded wall in the middle, and an informative wall on the solutions points in their area. It also showcased many NGOs and E-statements are provided to our customers for free, right featuring what happens to each item when recycled. To further this community projects dedicated to these causes. to save trees and be kinder to the environment. We cause, four sorting bins were made available in two different locations The objective was to raise awareness and simplify the recycling process invite all our customers to support this initiative to at the Club, with one dedicated to glass, and the three others to metal, by providing an interactive map allowing people to search and find all paper and plastic. ensure that we leave a greener and better world for the available recycling solution points in their region, as well as their contact details. our future generations. Grace Eid, Head of Retail Banking ” RECYCLING CAMPAIGN OUTREACH Continuing to raise awareness on sorting and recycling for a greener High interaction was tracked on the website, with thousands of visitors accessing the platform. future, a campaign was launched on social media. Including 15 different posts, it aimed at introducing our different environmental initiatives, as AWARENESS ON RESOURCES USAGE well as inviting people to sort their waste and send them for recycling ARAB FORUM FOR ENVIRONMENT AND DEVELOPMENT (AFED) PAPER RECYCLING ACROSS THE CITY and upcycling using the recycling bins placed in 9 different locations. Since 2008, AFED annually reports on the state of Arab environment, In collaboration with Cedar Environmental, Bank Audi deployed We reached more than: highlighting environmental challenges and recommended solutions. 9 locations in and around Beirut which resulted in 11,218 Kg of paper Bank Audi sponsored AFED’s 11th annual conference which featured and carton collected by the various neighbourhoods leading to the various panel discussions. Jean Traboulsi, Head of Marketing and 300,000 1,731 saving of 190 trees. Communications at Bank Audi, took part in a panel on “The Business Case for Financing Sustainable Development”. The conference aimed at providing an update on the status and potential of sustainable users reactions development finance in Arab countries, and setting forth guidelines for public and private sectors on future financing of SDGs. 172,000 video views Paper recycling across the city CSR REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 43 URB-HACKATHON MY CARBON FOOTPRINT ENVIRONMENTAL LOANS For the first time in Lebanon and under the patronage of the President Mobilising the Youth for a Better Environment EBRD and Bank Audi Partner for First Green Finance Project of the Council of Ministers, His Excellency Mr. Saad Hariri, the This initiative was undertaken by Bank Audi in collaboration with in Lebanon. Urb-Hackathon, organised by e-EcoSolutions in partnership with the Ministry of Environment and the United Nations Development With a view to strengthening sustainable energy in Lebanon, the EBRD IPT Energy Center, was held in March at Berytech, USJ Science and Programme (UNDP) to address climate change, while raising and Bank Audi joined forces by providing USD 100 million each for green Technology Campus, under our sponsorship. awareness among the youth on the use of resources and its impact projects. This includes the first loan under the EBRD Green Economy The Hackathon, which was led by experts from la Cité des Sciences et on the environment. Financing Facility (GEFF) for the country. de l’Industrie in Paris and included professionals and university students my-cfp.com is an informative and fun microsite developed by Bank Audi The programme addresses critical issues for Lebanon’s sustainable from Lebanon, aimed at bringing life to innovative projects under the and specifically addressed to children aged 12 to 15 and living in Lebanon. development, such as diversifying energy supply, reducing the use theme “Data-Urbanism: Reducing City Air Pollution from Transport”. The platform allows participants to monitor and reduce their household of limited natural resources such as energy and water, and improving The Urb-Hackathon drove participants to form working teams, energy expenses and their impact on the environment, by keeping track energy efficiency, thus decreasing pollution levels, conserving resources brainstorm, design, and present solutions that allow cities to function of their homes’ electricity, paper, gas and fuel consumption. and contributing to a better environment. more efficiently, be more responsive to community members, and Try it out here Under the GEFF agreement with Bank Audi, the EBRD is providing a ultimately create better, more equitable and sustainable urban environments for people to live in. my-cfp.com USD 90 million loan, to be complemented by USD 10 million in concessional funding from the TaiwanICDF, for on-lending to private Participants used the machines at the unique Berytech FabLab to borrowers. The funds will be used for climate change mitigation and build prototypes, and each team submitted one project idea to an The aim of this microsite is to engage the Lebanese youth in reducing adaptation investments, in line with the EBRD’s Green Economy Transition international jury panel. their household’s impact on the environment, in recognising the approach, a comprehensive strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions importance of resources, and in acknowledging the carbon footprint we and improve energy efficiency. leave on Mother Earth. GEFF Lebanon will be supported by a team of specialised consultants Today’s youth have an eagerness to learn and adopt environment-friendly including engineering, environmental, financial and marketing experts, and ethical resource consumption practices having positive effects on who will offer Bank Audi and its clients direct support and advice the global climate. This motivates children and teenagers to reduce their throughout the green project lifecycle using best-in-class technologies. carbon footprint, thus contributing to building a generation of civically The technical assistance package is supported by the EBRD Shareholder engaged citizens. Special Fund. ECO-FRIENDLY AND POWER-FREE USD financing 200 Together with 200 countries, Lebanon celebrated Earth Hour for the 11th package year in a row. By suspending the use of energy for 60 minutes, Earth Hour for green aims at raising awareness on the pressing need of saving the earth by finance starting with small behavioural changes. At the Bank’s Naccash-Dbayeh MILLION branch, a large message was displayed on the branch’s LED screen hours prior to Earth Hour to highlight this global initiative, encouraging people to become more conscious about the environment. During Earth Hour, the mentioned LED screen was switched off, as were the lights at Bank Audi Plaza, Bank Audi Palladium, and parts of M1 building. Urb-Hackathon CSR REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 44 “ This GEFF facility to Bank Audi is the first offered to a commercial bank in Lebanon and the largest ever These loans cover a spectrum of environment-friendly modifications ranging from financing a construction certified Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED), to purchasing absorption chiller solutions, THIS INITIATIVE AIMED AT HELPING: Reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills granted to a single bank in the region. The project financing energy efficient components and zero waste solutions, planting trees, renovated lighting systems, acquisition of photovoltaic Preserve natural resources such as wood, water and minerals demonstrates the EBRD’s commitment to creating panels, and landscaping implementations applied in private, residential Prevent pollution opportunities in the green economy in Lebanon, or commercial buildings. and deepens our partnership with Bank Audi. Gretchen Biery, EBRD Head of Lebanon ” Save energy Reduce greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming “ Our partnership with the EBRD in the GEFF facility demonstrates the commitment of both institutions EFFLUENTS AND WASTE We sustained our “Grow Green” program which encourages employees Help sustain the environment for future generations to recycle solid waste in their workplace and at home, and to dispose of it to unlocking the Lebanese private sector’s access at the Bank’s three special hubs. EMISSIONS to green finance. The funding will allow businesses Collected plastic bottle caps and plastic bottles are donated to In partnership with a certified expert, we conducted a comprehensive and individuals to invest in commercially viable Association de l’Ecoute. In 2018, we continued to track the impact of our audit of our carbon footprint by monitoring all our premises. This process “Grow Green” program since its inception in 2012. and environmentally sustainable projects, thereby was launched in 2012, hereafter considered as base year, with a view to comply with the GRI Standards on environmental impact. As per supporting Lebanon’s overall transition to a green our GHG inventory based on the GHG-Protocol Corporate Standard, economy. To that end, Bank Audi will match the GEFF Total Weight of Waste in Kg we have reported on the following seven greenhouse gases: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons facility with an additional USD 100 million in financing 2,192 1,407 (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen to support green investments, bringing the total green trifluoride (NF3). financing package to USD 200 million. Samir Hanna, Chairman and Group CEO ” e-waste PET bottles The GHG calculations were performed using well-established tools and methodologies following the GHG Protocol developed by the World Resource Institute (WRI, 2006b, c). Using an internationally recognised tool allows a standardisation of procedures and calculations, which is key Since 2006, through GEFF, the EBRD has provided almost € 4 billion in green financing to more than 130 financial institutions, reaching 120,000 clients in 25 countries. These projects have led to annual 67 Plastic 70,328 Paper in order to quantify and compare emissions accurately. The calculation of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used are based on GHG-Protocol which uses the IPCC reductions in CO2 emissions of almost 7 million tonnes. emission factors provided in the IPCC guidelines of 2006, the IPCC Second Assessment Report (1995), and the local emission factor for USD Environmental loans 3,882* 1,196 electricity communicated by the Lebanese Ministry of the Environment. 20.2 MILLION subsidised by the Central Bank of Lebanon at preferential interest rates Metals Trees * Includes non-recurrent disposing of old ATMs. ENERGY AMBASSADOR OF THE YEAR 2018 AWARD At the opening of the 9th edition of the International Beirut Energy Forum which was organised by MCE Group, Bank Audi was awarded Energy Ambassador of the Year 2018 – Lebanese Institution. The event gathered Lebanese and Arab officials, VIPs, professionals and experts in the field. On the reasons behind Bank Audi’s win, This new achievement highlights Bank Audi’s leading positioning as the main financial contributor to energy-related projects benefitting to the society as “ This GEFF facility to Bank Audi is the first offered to a commercial bank in Lebanon and the largest a whole, and its strong belief that such projects generate spillover effects which can stimulate the economy and attract much needed foreign funding ever granted to a single bank in the region. The to the country. In turn, this would lead to job creation, increase productivity, project demonstrates the EBRD’s commitment to enhance national competitiveness and revitalise trade routes. creating opportunities in the green economy in Lebanon, and deepens our partnership with Bank Audi. The Bank is actively working on arranging other energy transactions in the renewable and conventional energy sectors, the aim being to structure bankable transactions within an optimal risk-sharing protocol, to attract the required debt and equity financing while preserving the public sector’s interest. Khalil Debs, Group Head of Corporate Banking ” Energy Ambassador award CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 46 EXPERTS’ CORNER AWARDS AND RECOGNITION we recommend sending the concerned departments, along with the Cards draft CSR report, a disclaimer stating that these departments are fully • Debit Card The Banker responsible about the accuracy of the information they have provided. • Credit Card Bank of the Year – Middle East • Further reinforce the positioning of the CSR function to become • Installment Card Best Private Bank in Lebanon – Best Private Bank for Customer Service integrated across all levels of the Bank as part of its overall strategy, • Charge Card (Middle East) decision making and business processes. • Corporate Card • Continue to raise awareness and build competencies and capabilities • Co-branded Card Global Finance for social responsibility, to engage the Bank employees at various levels • Prepaid Card Safest Bank in Lebanon towards applying and promoting the Bank CSR principles. Best Bank in Lebanon • Consider reporting the CSR activity across the whole group by Bancassurance Best Private Bank in Lebanon including all Group Audi entities figures in the reporting and not only • Aman Al Elm Lebanese ones. • Aman Al Ghad MCE Group • Ensure that all CSR activities and events are pre-approved by the CSR • Aman Al Darb Energy Ambassador of the Year committee, even those not initiated by the CSR unit or where the • Aman Al Madkhoul ownership is not under the CSR Unit. • Aman Al Hayat Global Investor Magazine • Aman Al Dirassa Best Asset Manager in Lebanon Rana Nassif Sassine • Aman Al Dar Head of Internal Audit • Hizam Al Aman SEA Award – Social Impact • Hizam Obligatory Accounts INTERNAL AUDIT REPORT • Sight Deposit Account • Payroll Account Objective: review and evaluate the report of the Corporate Social SAMPLING OF BANK AUDI’S BRANDS, PRODUCTS • Spring Account Responsibility activities. AND SERVICES • Wedding Account • Current Account for Individuals and Businesses Business Lines • Deposit Account The Internal Audit Department conducted a review over the 2018 • Personal Banking Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report of Bank Audi based on the • Business Banking Loans objective and scope outlined above. • Private Banking • Business Loan • SME • Premises Loan Our audit revealed that the Bank is continuously exerting efforts to improve its CSR reporting. The review was based on interviews and • Kafalat Loan Loyalty Program • Home Loan testing on sample basis. In conclusion, no major discrepancies have come • Audi Rewards • Car Loan to our attention to make us believe that the information contained in • Travel Rewards • Personal Loan this report has not been fairly presented in all material respect. However, • Kids Rewards • University loan we identified areas for potential improvement that Management should • Cedar Miles • Loans for Public Sector consider. These are as follows: • Air Time • Cashback • Due to the lack of resources and tools, the CSR unit is not capable • Gift Voucher of exhaustively ensuring that the reported and calculated figures are accurate and in harmony with published information. As such, CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 47 Services Empowerment Through Integration (ETI): creates integrated, supportive spaces S.O.S.: children’s orphan village • Bank Audi Mobile App that empower their program participants to break down social stigmas and • PinPay create positive social change Sesobel: assists children with disabilities • ADSL Service • Calculator Skoun: supports people with addiction problems Heartbeat: provides advanced surgical technology to treat children with • Bill Domiciliation heart diseases • Audi Online Step Together: improves students’ life through individualised tuition and therapy • Safe Deposit Box Houlmouna: cares for the elderly • Car Tax Payment Tamanna: grants the wishes of children with critical illnesses • Chatbox Howard Karagheusian: assists socially and economically vulnerable Armenian SMS Service communities with the aim of easing their suffering, enabling them to lead healthy, E-statement productive lives, and empowering them to achieve economic self-sufficiency INITIATIVES ENDORSED BY BANK AUDI Human Rights Watch: defends the rights of people worldwide Cultural festivals as detailed in the Report (Community Development) Injaz: equips youth with the skills and mindset needed to become entrepreneurs, business leaders and sought after employees stimulating their Various business forums as detailed in the Report (Economic Development) communities and contributing to the economic development Multitude of educational institutions as detailed in the report (Human Development) Jabal Moussa: conserves the natural heritage Ahlouna: contributes to the development of citizens on a social level Kibarouna: cares for the elderly Al Younbouh: improves the quality of life of students with special needs Lebanese Food Bank: fights and overcomes hunger by developing effective feeding programs in parallel with development and awareness programs to eliminate hunger Amour et Partage: provides the poor with a dignified life Lebanese Red Cross: promotes peace, serves the society, and alleviates ASSAMEH Birth & Beyond: provides first class medical services to premature human suffering babies and children Maison St. Vincent De Paul: serves the poor with love, respect, joy and justice Ayadina Association: helps underprivileged children and the elderly May Chidiac Foundation: trains and researches media issues Biet El Yateem El Derzi : gives support to all Druze orphans MySchoolPulse: provides children undergoing treatment for life-threatening Braveheart: helps children with congenital heart diseases illnesses with the opportunity to continue their education CCCL: provides access to free treatment and cares for all children with cancer in OpenMind Fund: assists individuals with special needs through advocacy Lebanon and the region, without any discrimination. Orphanage Welfare Society of Saida: cares for orphans Cedars for Care: eradicates poverty Oum El Nour: helps individuals overcome their addiction Chance: helps children with cancer and blood disorders Roads For Life: provides post-accident care Embrace: helps people with mental illness CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 48 INITIATIVES TO ENHANCE FINANCIAL LITERACY Initiative Target group Category Goal Subject Area Activities-related Beneficiary Language Information Material Youth Spring Account All youth Practical access to money and special services Promotion Campaign, sponsorships Youth Arabic/English Online and brochure (18-23 year-olds) Sight Deposit Account All Low-income individuals Saving Account and additional benefits Promotion All Arabic/English Online and brochure Each age group has its Schooling Insurance Account Parents Helps parents ensure their children's' schooling fees Promotion Parents and youth Arabic Brochures own formula Housing Insurance Account All All Insures house against accidents Promotion All Arabic Brochures Life Insurance All All Insures individuals against accidents Promotion All Arabic Brochures University Studies Insurance Parents Youth Ensures university fees Promotion Youth Arabic Brochures Personal Loan All Low-income individuals Assists in personal spendings Promotion All Arabic/English Online and brochure Wedding Account All Newlyweds Helps newlyweds guarantee their future Promotion Newly Weds English Online and brochure Housing Loan All Low-income individuals Helps needy individuals buy houses Promotion All Arabic Online and brochure Visa Business Debit Card All Businessmen Helps businessmen control their business spendings Promotion Businessmen Arabic/English Online and brochure Educates cardholders on the evolving “chip” technology All You Need to know about “Chip Cards” All cardholders All Informative All English Online and brochure which was introduced to combat growing levels of fraud Educates cardholders on the latest PayPass contactless payment technology, a new feature that makes their All You Need to know about “PayPass” All cardholders All Informative All English Online and brochure purchases easier since they simply have to tap their card on a secure reader to pay Summarises Bank Audi cards split by chip type: “Chip & Employee’s Guide to “Chip Cards” Employees All Comprehensive All English Brochures PIN” or “Chip & Signature” Common Reporting Standard All All Helps fight tax evasion Informative All Arabic/English Brochures Transparency First Allow SMEs to manage their banking transactions and SME Products and Services Panoply SME clients SME clients meet their business needs through flexible financial Promotion Campaign SME clients Arabic/English Online and brochure solutions CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 49 EXAMPLES OF BANK AUDI’S MEMBERSHIP OUR MATERIALITY PROCESS IN INDUSTRY ASSOCIATIONS: Association des Banques du Liban (ABL) Our materiality process helps us identify the most relevant sustainability The entire process and the content of the Report is duly validated Positions held: issues and prioritise these for strategic implementation within our by all key stakeholders where external partners and all Bank Audi 1. Board of Directors: Dr. Freddie Baz organisation’s processes. Similar to previous years, we have engaged a departments, including the Executive Committee and the Disclosure 2. Committee for Compliance and Fighting Money Laundering: chaired range of internal and external stakeholders in our materiality process for Committee, are implicated. by Mr. Chahdan Jebeyli, Esq. 2018, capitalising on different tools and communication processes. Both 3. Legal Committee: chaired by Dr. Georges Achi sets of stakeholders are important from the Bank’s perspective, and this We acknowledge that the sustainability platform is an interactive stage 4. Research Studies Committee: Dr. Marwan Barakat (rapporteur) feedback has been instrumental in helping us further enhance our CSR and are cognisant to the changes needed. Hence we adapt through 5. Investment Banks and Capital Markets Committee strategy and continuously quantify the most impactful issues for 2018 regular reviews of our material issues. 6. Committee for Organisation, Standardisation and Information Technology and their relevant aspect boundaries. In fact, we take pride to be an 7. Communication Committee organisation that engages in open and constructive dialogue with our However, the changes to our materiality issues and aspect boundaries 8. Corporate Governance Committee: Mr. Farid Lahoud (rapporteur) stakeholders and gives this feedback systematic attention in refining its from last year were minimal, which allowed us to retain the materiality 9. Human Resources and Social Affairs Committee CSR strategy. This meticulous materiality exercise formed the basis for issues that were considered of medium to high influence on our 10. Banking Terms and Conditions Committee defining our report’s content for 2018. stakeholders’ assessments and medium to high in significance to Bank 11. Islamic Banking Committee Audi’s economic, environmental and social impacts. We continue 12. Banking Risk Committee As a result of identifying the most important aspects of our sustainability, to exclude from the Report those aspects that were considered we have allocated resources for sustainability impact in key projects such non-material, given their lower importance and/or their inapplicability to World Union of Arab Bankers as furthering our financial inclusion – financial literacy and SME business Bank Audi’s operating context. Union of Arab Banks outreach where value is created and shared coupled with a greater Chamber of Commerce, Industry & Agriculture “CCIA” interest in environmental protection where our business strategy is Considering that this reporting is restricted to Bank Audi Lebanon, the International Chamber of Commerce – Lebanon “ICC” currently focused on green financing facilities. materiality process is relevant for all Lebanese subsidiaries, and the Swiss Business Council – Leb scope of the material aspects and their boundaries are focused on Bank Arab Federation of Exchanges As for defining report quality, priority was given to balance the interest Audi Group – Lebanon entity (Bank Audi sal and its Lebanon-based UN Global Compact & Network Lebanon (GCNL) of all audiences and not just sustainability experts, hence the omission subsidiaries), hence excluding other entities listed in the Bank’s 2018 of detailed indicators from the main frame of the Report and their Annual Report. availability within a special file addressed to experts and facilitating OUR APPROACH TO CSR REPORTING reading to a wider audience. Reporting year is 2018. The previous report is the “CSR Report 2017: Committed” In the experts’ corner, one can compare year-to-year data since reporting published in July 2018. initiation on the various relevant indicators as per our materiality matrix The reporting cycle is: annual. in our chart generator. For information about the report, please refer to: Bank Audi’s CSR Unit Aiming for accuracy and clarity, we have provided timely and reliable CSR@bankaudi.com.lb information wherever available, with minor rounding. Bank Audi Palladium – Bab Idriss Beirut, Lebanon Bank Audi’s values are further embedded, and henceforth prioritised, due to the effect the relevant sustainability issues have on staff behaviour. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Our GHG emissions report is audited by V4 Advisors, an external expert on the topic. Our CSR report is internally audited by our certified auditors. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 50 Materiality Matrix and Main Issues of Priority Concern for 2018 Process of Defining Material Aspects and Boundaries Importance to Stakeholders IDENTIFICATION • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness External human development Environmental and Social Management System OF CRITICAL • Principle of Sustainability Context 1 Product portfolio ASPECTS Indirect economic impacts • Assessing relevant topics Anti-corruption • Identifying relevant aspects Economic contribution • Assessing internal impact Local community support of aspects Procurement practices • Assessing external Local community collaboration impact of aspects Ethical conduct Labour practices HIGH Emissions Awareness on resources usage Corporate Product responsibility Governance PRIORITISATION • Principle of Materiality Local community development OF ASPECTS • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness 2 Environmental loans Economic Financial inclusion Development • Evaluating and prioritising Training, education and talent development Infrastructure investments relevant aspects and topics Community • Assessing materiality of topics Energy consumption Development Market presence to stakeholders Compliance Human Human rights Innovation Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity Development VALIDATION OF • Principle of Completeness Effluents and waste Inclusive and Sustainable Industrialisation ASPECTS • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness 3 Environmental Protection • Validating the material Significance to Bank Audi HIGH aspects identified REVIEW • Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness • Principle of Sustainability Context 4 • Reviewing material aspects of the Report CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 51 STAKEHOLDERS’ CONSULTATIONS STAKEHOLDER BASIS CHANNELS USED ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2017 AND THEIR IMPLEMENTATION IN 2018 ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2018 (Q4) GROUPS OF SELECTION Internal The largest number of • Newsletters. • Provide a retirement plan pensions to •A  post-retirement health coverage for employees who • Launch a nationwide competition encouraging beneficiaries who uphold and • T ailored surveys: retired employees. reach the age of 60 was initiated. artists to create a masterpiece from recyclable items. convey the Bank’s image as they 11% (366 •C  SR activities coverage on social media increased and • Provide civic education for children through are the front liners in contact out of 3,253) • Create an advanced external and internal our internal e-newsletter was enhanced. games and fun sessions. with external stakeholders. of employees communication plan for CSR activities. • P roject was rolled out under research. • Clean beaches in Lebanon. They also contribute to the answered. • Implement a solar system to generate • Launch a competition across departments decision-making process by • Internal electricity in branches, which will minimise encouraging volunteering activities. being the major reporter of communication. power usage and decrease pollution and • E ngaged “Springers” in the Volunteer Program (VP), • Encourage clients to donate while applying for information. • Stakeholder electricity cost. conducted workshops for SMEs, and introduced high products/services (i.e. the customer requesting an engagement panel. • Invite clients to participate in CSR projects. level clients to the GCNL for the uptake of the SDGs. educational loan could be offered the option of •M  andated by the BDL. allocating a certain amount each month to help an underprivileged person to go to school). • Offer lower interests rates on •U  nder regular implementation with regard to employees. • Provide sponsorships for public schools renovation. environmental loans. As for Bank Audi, several NGOs benefit from donations. • Select one SDG each quarter to be the theme of • Give employees an option to give an amount •U  nder regular implementation (special section on the the quarter, and initiatives could be of their bonus to charity, which will be Financial Inclusion program under Community Development). implemented accordingly. matched by the Bank. • Subsidise loans for hybrid cars. • Establish financial education programs for •U  nder regular implementation. • Involve stakeholders in project planning, youth and entrepreneurs. implementation and evaluation for better outcomes. • Create a gamified platform for public schools, • Offer more scholarships to students with enabling students to participate in financial courses Employees outstanding performance who come from • Implemented under our SME business line. and top performers to earn monthly awards. modest backgrounds. • Conduct an internal campaign targeting bank • Grant a loan to female entrepreneurs, with • P ledged to the Lebanon Water Project (LWP) stewardship employees and aiming to raise awareness on carbon “easier” terms. with USAid. footprint reduction, that could be implemented at • Ensure water consumption management. • Laid over to 2019. individual level in their day-to-day activities. • Urge government to issue strict laws on • Integrate a pop-up notification to Bank environmental abuse in every aspect. The Bank Audi’s online application to trigger should refrain from granting loans to stakeholders’ curiosity about CSR and its non-environment-friendly companies. engagements, including a • Use solar power plants. “did you know” notification. • Being researched. • Initiate closer communication with concerned • Grant a short schedule to moms during the parties in the government to further engagethe 2 months following their maternity leave. public sector. • Mentorship program to high school or •U  nder regular implementation (internship program and • Collaborate with women’s university students offered by the Global Money Week). empowerment organisation. Bank’s employees. • Create platform to connect all stakeholders. • Distribute flyers or pamphlets to customers on the importance of climate change. • Grant loans to university students for research purposes. • Conduct more environmental activities such as hikes and plantations. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 52 STAKEHOLDER BASIS CHANNELS ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2017 AND THEIR IMPLEMENTATION IN 2018 ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2018 (Q4) GROUPS OF SELECTION USED Internal One of the Bank’s key pillars • Monthly meetings. which includes decision-makers • Workshops. who set the overall strategic • Stakeholder direction of the Bank and monitor engagement panel. Management its implementation. They are also the constituency accountable for repercussions of the Bank’s contributions. Investors who have a clear stake • Annual meetings. in the business and are important • Stakeholder strategic financial contributors, engagement panel. Shareholders with commitments that ensure • Annual reports. the financial health and viability of our business. External Providers of services and raw • Meetings. • Furthering inclusiveness for persons with •M  ade most of our branches and ATMs accessible to • Collaborate with government on the basis of materials with whom the Bank • Stakeholder special needs. disabled persons. sharing our practice of accountability; help has a mutual benefit relationship. engagement panel. •C  SR activities coverage increased on social media and improve public governance based on our We are keen on maintaining a • Furthering communication on our CSR efforts. our internal e-newsletter was enhanced. extensive internal governance experience. close working relationship with •U  nder regular implementation. • Encourage government to take mandated key suppliers across different • Perceiving and tackling human rights. reforms seriously. Suppliers industries, and we acknowledge • Promoting financial inclusion. •U  nder regular implementation (special section • Identify corporate clients for a workshop creating that our suppliers are also on the Financial Inclusion program under a thought leadership within a CSR arena. invariably affected by the Bank’s • Supporting vocational training and human Community Development). • Further CSR marketing and reporting. operations and policies, especially development in rural areas. • Implemented within the Volunteer Program. • Continue financial literacy with regards to quality and • Furthering public / private collaboration. • Support vocational training, job training and integrity standards. •C  ollaborated with the Ministry of Education and Higher career mentoring. • Promoting education for the benefit of Education for the Global Money Week Program. • Provide training programs in readiness for Critical stakeholders for the • Tailored surveys. the community. •U  nder regular implementation (special section women leadership. Bank, who sustain its continued • Meetings. on the Financial Inclusion program under • Maintain and expand renewable vibrancy and vitality. They are at • Stakeholder • Conducting trainings to raise SMEs’ Community Development). energy investments. the heart of the decision-making engagement panel. awareness of Financial Management in • Initiated several roadshows in all Lebanese areas • Support start-ups, social entrepreneurs, MMEs process in terms of operations, times of crisis. to raise awareness on SME-related issues. and SMEs. Industry products issuance and services, representatives • Financing and marketing researches and •B  eing researched. • Promote sustainable and equal economic and are the ones who benefit innovations in the university sector. development across Lebanon. most from the Bank’s services. • Conducting campaigns to decrease • Encourage more transparency and fair They contribute financially by corruption and access to information. •D  ifferent internal communications were sent to procurement in bidding process. endorsing the Bank and making employees to comply with rules set to avoid corruption. • Allocate “rewards points” to 3rd parties, like use of its services. • Setting clearer KPIs. •U  nder regular implementation. discounted interest rates which would be pooled • Promoting Corporate Governance and •C  onducted several presentations to different and allocated to the more needy with regard to The most enduring partners of • Meetings. transparency, and their spillover effect to organisations and universities mentioning our practices housing facilities. the Bank in the field of CSR, • Stakeholder other companies. in corporate governance and transparency. • Promote financial inclusion. symbolising the channels through engagement panel. •U  nder regular implementation. • Further public/private collaboration. which we contribute to the • Various events. • Supporting start-ups, social entrepreneurs, • Initiate a capacity-building program. community and sustain our scaling • Volunteer Program. MMEs and SMEs. NGOs of social impact and our spillover •C  leaned the hunting fields of Deir Al Qamar under the effect. They are chosen based on • Undertaking environmental initiatives. Volunteer Program. the congruence and compatibility of their mission and strategies with the Bank’s values and social orientation. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 53 STAKEHOLDER BASIS CHANNELS ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2017 AND THEIR IMPLEMENTATION IN 2018 ISSUES IDENTIFIED IN 2018 (Q4) GROUPS OF SELECTION USED External The official institutions that frame • Meetings. the regulatory boundaries of the • Stakeholder Bank’s legal operations. They are engagement panel. affected by the Bank’s operations • Workshops. Public sector and manifold economic contributions. They also influence the way we frame our decisionmaking in relation to key aspects of our operations, including CSR. Peer banks and financial • Meetings. institutions which are also • Stakeholder collaborators in setting the engagement panel. operational, social, environmental • Workshops. Competitors and competitive standards. We also value our competitors in terms of helping promote and enhance CSR in Lebanon. Local community stakeholders • Events. in various locations where our • Stakeholder bank operates. We identify our engagement panel. well-being as closely tied to that Community of the community around us, and Civil society we seek to improve our external environment through various programs, events, activities and philanthropy. Various media groups and • E-newsletters. channels that transmit • Interviews. information and with which the • Events. Bank liaises to communicate in • Newspaper. relation to various aspects of its • Social media. Media activities, including CSR. Through • Stakeholder the media, we stay in touch with engagement panel. the various external stakeholders around us, while conveying and sharing our identity, programs and activities. 4 different stakeholders were • Events. selected to choose the best 4 Jury members initiatives proposed by university students in the context of the university awareness competition. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 54 INTERNAL STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATION Employees ranked in priority the 5 Sustainable Development Goals When consulted on material issues, employees responded that the Bank This analysis illustrates the outcomes of the survey conducted internally (SDG) that Bank Audi has recently pledged to: should mostly focus on: to measure employees’ knowledge and satisfaction on a number of 1. Awareness on resources usage (103 votes). materiality issues related to Corporate Social Responsibility at Bank Audi. 2. Resilient infrastructures (64 votes). 3. Diversity, inclusion and equal opportunity (125 votes). Results showed that respondents are equally gendered within the bulk 4. Economic contribution and indirect economic impacts (59 votes). of respondees aged 32 to 45, with a majority tenure at an average of 5. Emissions, effluents, waste and energy consumption (102 votes). 5 years. 6. Employee training, education and talent development (240 votes). 7. Environmental and Social Management System (82 votes). 8. Environmental loans (102 votes). 3,253 33% 9. Ethical conduct, anti-corruption and compliance (141 votes). 10. External human development (77 votes). 11. Financial literacy for the community (77 votes). Bank Audi employees were of the respondents have been 12. Fostering innovation (79 votes). invited to participate involved in a socially responsible 13. Human rights (155 votes). component at Bank Audi 14. Infrastructure investments (71 votes). 15. Local community support, collaboration and development (56 votes). 366 31% 16. Procurement practices and product responsibility (13 votes). 17. Product portfolio and market presence (45 votes). 18. Progressive labour practices (52 votes). employees completed the survey, have volunteered in a CSR 19. Promotion of inclusive and sustainable economic growth (72 votes). representing a participation rate initiative at the Bank 20. Promotion of inclusive and sustainable industrialisation (29 votes). of 11% 21. P romotion of productive employment and decent work for all (148 votes). 22. Urgent action to combat climate change (107 votes). CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 55 Aggregating all the issues identified through the above mentioned means, we are confident that our materiality matrix organised within our pillars and aligned with the SDGs we have pledged for last year is still relevant and addresses the concerns of our stakeholders at large. We hence project these within the aspect boundaries where the impact is highest, as summarised in the below table. Material Issue Aspect Boundaries Employees Management Shareholders Suppliers Clients NGOs Regulatory Bodies Competitors Community/ Media Jury members Civil society Ethical conduct • • • • • • • • Corporate Compliance • • • • • • • Governance Environmental and Social • • • • • • Management System Anti-corruption • • • • • • • • • Human rights • • • • • • • • • Economic contribution • • • • • • • Indirect economic • • • • • • • • • impacts Market presence • • • • • • • • • • Product responsibility • • • • • • Economic Product portfolio • • • Development Infrastructure • • • • • • • • investments Inclusive and sustainable • • • • • • industrialisation Innovation • • • • • • • • • Procurement practices • • • • • • Local community • • • • • • • • • • development Community Local community support • • • • • • • • • • Development Local community • • • • • • • • • collaboration Financial literacy • • • • • • • Labour practices • • • • Diversity, inclusion and • • • • • Human equal opportunity Development Training, education and • • • • • • talent development External human • • • • • • • • development CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 56 Material Issue Aspect Boundaries Employees Management Shareholders Suppliers Clients NGOs Regulatory Bodies Competitors Community/ Media Jury members Civil society Emissions • • Effluents and waste • • Environmental Protection Energy consumption • • • • Environmental loans • • • Awareness on • • • • • • • • resources usage DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH The material topics and their boundaries presented above form the Both our DMA and our reporting are guided by the values of relevance, essence of our entire materiality process. The two key challenges accuracy, timeliness, comparability, reliability, clarity, balance and invariably encountered in relation to materiality include casting the net completeness. All these principles ensure that our approach to CSR wide enough to capture important sustainability issues and corresponding reporting is organic and advancing dynamically to meet the changing risks and opportunities, yet not exceeding a reasonably small sub-set of expectations surrounding us, and that we remain true to our most material issues that really matter to the company and can be managed in cherished guiding values pertaining to transparency and civic engagement. a consistent way. This report is thus intended to delineate the active steps we have taken to integrate sustainability in our business using our resources efficiently Defining these material issues and their boundaries is at the heart of our and responsibly, and respecting the precautionary principle in terms of Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA). We exercise a rigorous minimising risks to our stakeholders and to the environment and society and elaborate process in selecting materiality issues that matter the most at large. to our stakeholders. We also assess each of these in terms of risks and opportunities for our business, our reputation and our finances. As part of our continuous improvement journey, we revisit our DMA Each of these issues is also evaluated annually in implications towards every year, assessing its overall effectiveness, as well as potential gaps, our business, taking into consideration the legal requirements, national weaknesses or shortcomings, and decide, in light of that, on any needed priorities and international norms of behaviour within the scope of refinements or adjustments. feasibility and implementation of the CSR initiatives pertaining to these material issues. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Sustainable Finance New Loans with Environmental and/or Social Benefits Provided during 2018* Project Name/Sector Value Financed Type Of Environmental/ (USD) Social Benefit Industrial company 800,000 1 loan Wastewater treatment Industrial company 800,000 1 loan Project of electrostatic precipitators Industrial company 1,900,000 1 loan New de-dusting system Financing the environmental part of constructing Individuals 2,071,147 9 loans private residences Real estate 221,357 1 loan Led lights Non-profit organisation 100,000 1 loan Solar photovoltaic panels Real estate 134,000 1 loan Financing the energy efficiency for a residence Real estate 222,476 1 loan Solar photovoltaic panels and led lights Hotels & Commercial Centre 348,731 2 loans Solar photovoltaic panels and nerhy system Solar photovoltaic panels and diesel hybrid solar Industry: F & B 1,010,000 2 loans system Company: trading 100,000 1 loan Solar photovoltaic panels Ste. Renewable Energy Sal 12,480,965 1 loan Renewable energy TOTAL 20,188,676 22 loans * These financings constitute a particular financial product, namely “Green Loans” under the Pollution Abatement, NEEREA and LEA mechanism, which are subsidised by the Central Bank of Lebanon (BDL). NEEREA and LEA loans are submitted for review by the LCEC prior to their approval by BDL, in addition to Pollution Abatement loans which are approved by LEPAP also. Ethical Conduct And Compliance Risk awareness and promotion of CSR and human rights in line with the Bank’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. 88.43% of employees completed the yearly Performance Management. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 58 Anti-corruption Related Training Year on year, our employees and governance bodies attend anti-corruption related trainings. Anti-Corruption Training Total Employees Eligible Percentage For Training EMPLOYEES 297 2,354 13% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 120 868 14% 2018 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 1 31 3% TOTAL EMPLOYEES 418 3,253 13% EMPLOYEES 298 2,503 12% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 181 868 21% 2017 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 29 31 93% TOTAL EMPLOYEES 508 3,402 15% EMPLOYEES 1,133 2,603 44% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 259 680 38% 2016 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 15 40 38% TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1,407 3,323 42% EMPLOYEES 1,009 2,511 40% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 276 584 47% 2015 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 12 35 34% TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1,297 3,130 41% EMPLOYEES 1,205 2,434 49% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 214 474 45% 2014 SENIOR MANAGEMENT 31 81 38% TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1,450 2,989 49% CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 59 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT Economic Contribution* 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2,989 3,310 3,323 3,402 3,253 TOTAL NUMBER OF OPERATIONS 47,225,446 52,309,613 55,697,141 62,175,796 47,444,313 TOTAL OPERATING INCOME USD 689.6 million USD 836.1 million USD 1,159 million** USD 871.1 million USD 911.9 million TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND SUBORDINATED DEBT USD 3.64 billion USD 3.77 billion USD 4.27 billion USD 4.53 billion USD 4.32 billion 72 products 72 products 74 products 51 products 50 products TOTAL NUMBER OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 73 services 74 services 79 services 56 services** 46 services * Excluding consolidation adjustments. ** This fluctuation is due to the sale of the Card and Electronic Payment processing and acquiring activities. Direct Economic Contribution* 2014 2015 2016 2017*** 2018*** TAXES USD 52 million USD 48 million USD 63 million USD 62 million USD 104 million**** ECONOMIC SPONSORSHIPS > USD 535,000 USD 920,990 USD 825,990 USD 520,450 USD 479,450 (creating job opportunities/enhancing innovation/allowing local economies to prosper) ASSETS FOR LEBANON GROUP USD 24.5 billion USD 25.8 billion USD 29.81 billion USD 30.61 billion USD 34.74 billion ASSETS FOR LEBANON GROUP WHEN ACCOUNTING FOR FIDUCIARY DEPOSITS USD 29.4 billion USD 30.7 billion USD 35.7 billion USD 36.94 billion USD 41.56 billion TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES USD 372.6 million USD 394.5 million USD 462.5 million USD 383.46 million USD 388.78 million INCOME TAXES USD 30 million ** USD 64 million ** USD 136 million ** USD 66.85 million USD 62.57 million PERSONAL INCOME TAXES FROM EMPLOYEES’ SALARIES USD 13 million** USD 18 million** USD 18 million** USD 21.35 million USD 18.63 million EMPLOYEES’ SALARIES USD 90 million ** USD 101 million ** USD 123 million ** USD 150 million USD 147 million SOCIAL SECURITY CONTRIBUTIONS USD 14 million ** USD 14 million ** USD 16 million ** USD 18 million USD 17 million TOTAL LOANS WITH LOW INTEREST RATES USD 50.8 million USD 49.2 million USD 43.4 million USD 43.3 million USD 52.4 million TOTAL BENEFICIARIES OF KAFALAT LOANS 437 460 515 487 545 KAFALAT LOANS/YEAR N/A USD 11 million USD 11.88 million USD 9.16 million USD 9.14 million BENEFICIARIES OF KAFALAT LOANS/YEAR N/A 66 60 69 58 SANAD LOANS USD 18 million USD 15.4 million USD 17.3 million USD 16.3 million USD 14.9 million BENEFICIARIES OF SANAD LOANS 149 163 110 117 168 TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS OF LEBANON’S GDP 1.80% 1.81% 2.34% 2.20% 1.82% BDL CIRCULAR 331 COMMITTED INVESTMENTS USD 11 million USD 26 million USD 41 million USD 47.6 million USD 48.8 million SUPPORT EVENTS AND ASSOCIATIONS USD 265,431 USD 489,085 USD 548,000 USD 482,250 USD 441,265 * Excluding consolidation adjustments. ** For Bank Audi sal. *** Consolidated including Bank Audi Lebanon Group. **** The difference is related to the projected withholding tax on dividends distribution. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 60 Infrastructure Investments The following table exposes some of the internal infrastructure business investments made which will impact our support in services to the communities that are in the direct vicinity. PROJECT DESCRIPTION COST INVESTMENT Tabaris branch Relocation USD 1,325,000 Commercial Klaayat offsite ATMs Renovation USD 41,846 Commercial Baabda branch Renovation USD 380,000 Commercial Haret Sakher branch New branch USD 896,000 Commercial Abra branch Renovation USD 195,644 Commercial Jounieh branch Renovation USD 40,403 Commercial Zahle branch Renovation USD 73,170 Commercial Bhamdoun branch Renovation USD 200,000 Commercial Fanar branch Renovation USD 71,726 Commercial Bint Jbeil branch Renovation USD 56,002 Commercial Ghobeiry branch Renovation USD 79,360 Commercial Roueiss branch Renovation USD 43,746 Commercial El Horge branch Renovation USD 110,243 Commercial TOTAL USD 3,513,139 CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 61 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Local Community Support 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE COMMUNITY USD 4.7 million USD 4.6 million USD 5.1 million USD 5.1 million USD 9.6 million HEALTH USD 557,000 USD 619,000 USD 773,693 USD 792,210 USD 1.4 million HUMANITARIAN AND SOCIAL USD 2.5 million USD 2.5 million USD 2.5 million USD 2.8 million USD 7.2 million CULTURE USD 1.47 million USD 1.33 million USD 1.70 million USD 1.11 million USD 880,764 FULL COST OF TREATMENT FOR ONE SICK CHILD USD 54,000 USD 50,000 USD 53,560 USD 116,000 USD 55,645 EMPLOYEES' CONTRIBUTION 485 466 454 441 440 FACILITATED TREATMENT OF 20 CHILDREN WITH CONGENITAL HEART PROBLEMS USD 150,000 USD 150,000 USD 150,000 USD 151,000 USD 175,000 SPONSORSHIPS TO VARIOUS ORGANISATIONS USD 55,000 USD 50,000 USD 50,500 USD 49,150 USD 40,000 CALLS FOR BLOOD DONATION DRIVE 65 51 75 120 150 PURCHASE OF CORPORATE GIFTS FROM NGOs USD 340,000 USD 275,000 USD 276,365 USD 266,746 USD 240,064 EVENTS IN WHICH OUR E-PAYMENT CARD SERVICES PARTICIPATED* 15 31 10 DONATIONS RAISED VIA OUR GPRS MACHINES DEPLOYED AT THE EVENTS* USD 318,000 USD 990,000 USD 403,250 COMMITTING TO NGOS THAT SUPPORT DISADVANTAGED PEOPLE USD 74,000 USD 110,640 USD 113,217 USD 88,934 USD 38,200 COMMITTING TO NGOS THAT SUPPORT DIFFERENT SOCIAL CAUSES USD 80,000 USD 100,000 USD 90,000 USD 49,289 USD 65,000 SPORTS ACTIVITIES SPONSORSHIP USD 100,000 USD 115,000 USD 144,000 USD 270,990 USD 65,542 * Electronic Payment and Card Services (EPCS) was sold in 2017; hence these activities were ceased. Local Community Development 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 BENEFICIARIES FROM PHILANTHROPIC CONTRIBUTIONS IN THE REALM Over 900,000 1,000,000 968,000 943,000 888,425 OF CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT NUMBER OF BANK AUDI EMPLOYEES WHO PARTICIPATED IN THE BEIRUT 500 400 488 380 394 INTERNATIONAL MARATHON (BIM) NGOS SUPPORTED IN THE BIM Brave Heart Fund Kunhadi Association Donner Sang Compter himaya Human Rights Watch CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 62 Local Community Collaboration VOLUNTEER PROGRAM 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total (Cumulative) NGO PARTNERS 6 8 11 18 16 16 BENEFICIARIES 683* 1,792 * 2,040 * 2,815 * 4,362 11,976 VOLUNTEERS 150 228 306 392 359 359 HOURS 530* 580 * 1,804 * 1,873 * 1,575 6,482 * These figures are year-to-year and non-cumulative. 359 employees and an additional 91 interns volunteered in 2018. HUMAN DEVELOPMENT Training, Education and Talent Development 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 EMPLOYEE 29.73 36.18 33.59 34.19 37.02 MALE 25.12 32.13 27.14 29.17 33.34 FEMALE 35.24 41.03 41.14 40.03 41.24 AVERAGE EMPLOYEE TRAINING HOURS FRONTLINE EMPLOYEE 27.04 36.09 32.37 34.06 42.39 MIDDLE MANAGER 44.89 36.68 38.16 34.58 23.18 SENIOR MANAGER 22.05 34.43 35.33 34.03 17.26 CAREER ADVANCEMENT PROGRAMS • 14 – Branch Management Program (BMP): provides qualified employees with an equal opportunity to assume first line supervisory positions. It is designed to identify, train and develop the Bank’s future Branch Managers and Assistant Managers through a one to three-year program exposing them to an intensive and learning environment. • 283 – Certified in miscellaneous BDL modules. • 23 employees benefited from the Bank’s sponsorship grants as follows: 7 professional certifications; banking studies. • 90% received career development reviews: 49.57% male employees 50.43% female employees • 22% Managers received career development reviews. • 78% staff received career development reviews. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 63 Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity Employee Composition by Gender and Employee Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon % Of Staff % Of Middle Managers % Of Top Managers (Below Grade 17) (Grade 17 to Grade 21 Inclusive) (Grade 22 and Above) F M F M F M BANK AUDI sal 37.31% 33.83% 12.67% 15.15% 0.11% 0.93% 2018 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 20.58% 57.76% 9.39% 11.73% 0% 0.54% BANK AUDI sal 37.76% 34.73% 11.81% 14.60% 0.14% 0.96% 2017 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 21% 57.67% 9.17% 11.33% 0% 0.83% BANK AUDI sal 38.21% 37.23% 10.49% 12.77% 0.36% 0.94% 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 28.60% 46.32% 5.78% 14.45% 0% 4.85% BANK AUDI sal 38.98% 38.63% 9.35% 11.66% 0.38% 1% 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 30.34% 49.08% 4.44% 11.33% 0% 4.80% BANK AUDI sal 39.80% 39.60% 8.60% 11.30% 0% 0.60% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 31.50% 50.40% 3.90% 11.30% 0% 3% Employee Composition by Age Group and Employee Category at Bank Audi Group Lebanon % Of Staff % Of Middle Managers % Of Top Managers (Below Grade 17) (Grade 17 to Grade 21 Inclusive) (Grade 22 and Above) <30 BETWEEN >50 <30 BETWEEN >50 <30 BETWEEN >50 30-50 30-50 30-50 BANK AUDI sal 19.34% 40.35% 11.45% 0.07% 19.82% 7.93% 0.00% 0.26% 0.78% 2018 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 16.61% 40.25% 21.48% 3.97% 7.22% 9.93% 0.00% 0.18% 0.36% BANK AUDI sal 23.91% 37.44% 11.13% 0.21% 19.09% 7.10% 0% 0.39% 0.71% 2017 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 19% 38.83% 20.83% 4.83% 7% 8.67% 0% 0.33% 0.50% BANK AUDI sal 21.63% 40.23% 13.57% 0.14% 17.80% 5.31% 0% 0.47% 0.83% 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 13.16% 40.70% 21.07% 0% 13.39% 6.84% 0% 2.42% 2.42% BANK AUDI sal 20.89% 41.71% 15.01% 0.08% 15.78% 5.16% 0% 0.50% 0.88% 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 16.89% 39.51% 23.02% 0% 11.96% 3.81% 0% 2.08% 2.71% BANK AUDI sal 22% 42% 15% 0% 15% 5% 0% 0% 1% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 17% 42% 23% 2% 9% 4% 0% 3% 0% CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 64 Composition of Governance Body Committees by Gender and Age Group at Bank Audi as of April 2018 Board and Committees Gender (%) Age (%) Males Females <30 30-50 >50 Board of Directors 82 18 9 91 NB: Senior Management positions are mostly occupied by employees who are older, and hence have more seniority, experience and tenure within the Bank. Employee Distribution by Contract Type and Gender at Bank Audi Group Lebanon CONTRACT Total Number Of Gender Limited Employment Contract Unlimited Employment Contract Collective Agreement Employees F M F M F M % Covered % Not Covered BANK AUDI sal 2,699 1,352 1,347 40 47 1,312 1,300 99.33% 0.67% 2018 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 554 166 388 27 47 139 341 22.92% 77.08% TOTAL 3,253 1,518 1,735 67 94 1,451 1,641 86.32% 13.68% BANK AUDI sal 2,802 1,393 1,409 39 52 1,354 1,357 99.39% 0.61% 2017 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 600 181 419 29 50 152 369 19.83% 80.17% TOTAL 3,402 1,574 1,828 68 102 1,506 1,726 85.36% 14.64% BANK AUDI sal 2,764 1,372 1,392 66 67 1,306 1,325 100% 0% 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 559 158 401 23 46 135 355 33.33% 66.66% TOTAL 3,323 1,530 1,793 89 113 1,441 1,680 88.78% 11.21% BANK AUDI sal 2,599 1,266 1,333 39 45 1,227 1,288 100% 0% 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 531 158 373 24 36 134 337 32.11% 67.89% TOTAL 3,130 1,424 1,706 63 81 1,361 1,625 88.48% 11.52% BANK AUDI sal 2,511 1,217 1,294 33 36 1,184 1,258 97.3% 2.7% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 478 143 335 13 22 130 313 36.3% 63.7% TOTAL 2,989 1,360 1,629 46 58 1,314 1,571 88.48% 12.46% * This table was updated from previously published due to calculation flaws. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 65 LABOUR PRACTICES New Employee Hires in Bank Audi Group Lebanon Total Number Of New Hires Total Number Of New Hires By Gender Total Number Of New Hires By Age F M <30 BETWEEN 30-50 >50 BANK AUDI sal 12 5 7 4 8 0 2018 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 2 1 1 1 0 1 TOTAL 14 6 8 5 8 1 BANK AUDI sal 210 118 92 144 66 0 2017 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 71 19 52 47 24 0 TOTAL 281 137 144 191 90 0 BANK AUDI sal 272 149 123 187 85 0 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 74 10 64 42 29 3 TOTAL 346 159 187 229 114 3 BANK AUDI sal 223 109 114 131 89 3 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 97 24 73 48 38 11 TOTAL 320 133 187 179 127 14 BANK AUDI sal 186 97 89 136 48 2 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 48 11 37 25 19 4 TOTAL 234 108 126 161 67 6 CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 66 Return to Work and Retention Rates after Parental Leave, by Gender Total Number Of Total Number Of Employees Total Number Of Employees Who Returned To Work After Return To Work Retention Rate Employees Who Who Returned To Work After Parental Leave Ended And Are Still Employed 12 Months Rate Took Parental Leave Parental Leave After Their Return F M F M F M F M F M BANK AUDI sal 63 57 61 57 61 57 97% 100% 97% 100% 2018 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 4 14 4 14 4 14 100% 100% 100% 100% BANK AUDI sal 48 45 48 45 48 45 100% 100% 100% 100% 2017 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 3 12 3 12 3 12 100% 100% 100% 100% BANK AUDI sal 56 55 56 55 54 54 100% 100% 96.43% 98.18% 2016 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 4 14 4 14 4 14 100% 100% 100% 100% BANK AUDI sal 79 61 76 56 76 56 96.2% 91.8% 96.2% 91.8% 2015 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 1 8 1 8 1 8 100% 100% 100% 100% BANK AUDI sal 81 51 75 51 72 47 96.5% 100% 96% 92% 2014 OTHER LEBANESE ENTITIES 6 10 5 10 5 10 89% 100% 100% 100% Cost of Benefits to Employees 2014* 2015* 2016* 2017 2018 Salaries and benefits USD 165 million USD 170 million USD 199 million USD 198 million USD 201 million Number of employees supported 888 940 970 1,219 1,258 * Previous years calculated for Bank Audi sal only. As of 2017, for Bank Audi Group Lebanon. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 67 EXTERNAL HUMAN DEVELOPMENT 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Loans at preferential interest rates to university students USD 3.9 million USD 6.4 million USD 6.5 million USD 6.75 million USD 7.84 million Number of beneficiaries from the university loans granted 238 373 371 413 461 Number of internships to university students 432 423 510 497 513 Cost of internships USD 80,000 USD 163,000 USD 198,000 USD 148,000 USD 182,000 Children’s tuition fees USD 4 million USD 5.3 million USD 5.4 million USD 6.6 million USD 7.7 million Support of key educational institutions through scholarships USD 640,000 USD 746,349 USD 961,045 USD 943,038 USD 991,501 and donations ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Total Weight of Waste in Kg Year E-Waste* Plastic Metals Pet Bottles* Paper Trees 2012 – 30 4,740 – 51,770 1,102 2013 – 130 690 – 83,192 1,414 2014 – 157 – – 103,722 1,763 2015 403 150 – 33 146,769 ** 2,495 2016 2,124 196 54 1,518 111,080 1,888 2017 4,000 129 20,640 *** 1,005 92,600 1,574 2018 2,192 67 ***3,882 1,407 70,328 1,196 TOTAL 8,719 859 30,007 3,964 659,461 11,432 * Initiated in 2015. ** Includes disposing of non-recurrent archives. *** Includes disposing of non-recurrent old ATMs. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 68 EMISSIONS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total GHG emissions 21,309.8 tCO2e 21,065.6 tCO2e 21,738.2 tCO2e 19,976.2 tCO2e* 23,292.7 tCO2e 22,515.0 tCO2e GHG emissions per employee 7.68 tCO2e 7.0 tCO2e 6.9 tCO2e 6.01 tCO2e 6.88 tCO2e 6.51 tCO2e GHG emissions per m2 0.220 tCO2e 0.218 tCO2e 0.225 tCO2e 0.200 tCO2e 0.205 tCO2e 0.198 tCO2e Total GHG emissions % from Scope 1 19.2% 21.3% 20.5% 38% 22% 15% Total GHG emissions from Scope 1 4,101.7 tCO2e 4,486.2 tCO2e 4,448.1 tCO2e 7,668.2 tCO2e 5,054.3 tCO2e 3,412.9 tCO2e Total GHG emissions % from Scope 2 75.1% 72.8% 72.1% 53% 73% 80% Total GHG emissions from Scope 2 16,003.9 tCO2e 15,338.3 tCO2e 15,672.4 tCO2e 10,506.1 tCO2e 16,993.7 tCO2e 17,799.9 tCO2e Total GHG emissions % from Scope 3 5.7% 5.9% 7.4% 9% 5% 0% Total GHG emissions from Scope 3 1,204.2 tCO2e 1,241.0 tCO2e 1,617.7 tCO2e 1,801.8 tCO2e 1,244.7 tCO2e 913.9 tCO2e Flight trips % of Scope 3 74.3% 68.4% 63.3% 66% 54% 44% Flight trips 894.9 tCO2e 849.5 tCO2e 1,024.5 tCO2e 1,193.9 tCO2e 670.5 tCO2e 406.6 tCO2e Courier services % of Scope 3 8.4% 8.2% 23.1% 21% 30% 41% Courier services 101.4 tCO2e 101.4 tCO2e 373.8 tCO2e 373.8 tCO2e 373.8 tCO2e 373.1 tCO2e Paper consumption % of Scope 3 17.20% 23.4% 13.6% 13% 16% 15% Paper consumption 209.7 tCO2e 290.1 tCO2e 219.4 tCO2e 234.1 tCO2e 200.3 tCO2e 134.2 tCO2e * it is worth noting that at reporting time, given the lack of official data, some estimations were made on our electricity consumption. Bank Audi's Greenhouse Gas Emission Sources ENERGY CONSUMPTION 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 From diesel From liquefied petroleum gas From Scope consumption Total fuel consumption 1,439,665.8 litres 1,402,789.8 litres 2,608,853.4 litres 1,477,862 litres 988,057 litres (LPG) used for refrigerants in owned 1 cooking in used generators cafeterias Total electricity consumption 23,922 MWH 23,745.1MWH 17,489.4 MWH 24,176.3 MWH 23,893.53 MWH % of electricity purchased from EDL 75.9% 73.4% 44.4% 66% 65.4% % of electricity produced by 12.7% 12.5% 31.6% 12.90% 25.9% owned generators From electricity From electricity Scope purchased from purchased % of electricity purchased from 11.4% 14.1% 24% 21.10% 8.8% 2 shared shared generators from EDL generators Sources of conversion factors used are the same as those used in 2013*. * 2013 CSR Report, Figure 20. From air flights Scope taken by From paper From courier 3 employees for consumption services work reasons CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 69 EMISSIONS 24,000 23,292.7 Emissions per Sources 23,000 Sources % 22,199.8 22,515.0 EDL 44% 22,000 21,738.2 Shared generator 36% 21,309.9 21,065.6 Diesel consumption 12% 21,000 Refrigerant 3% Flights 2% 19,976.2 Courier services 2% 20,000 Paper 1% -4% -5% -2% -10% +5% -1.4% 19,000 tCO2e year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Percentages comapred to baseline year, 2012. Our Contribution to Reducing the Nation’s Carbon Footprint 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total tCO2 saved due 158 tCO2 2,533 tCO2 12,771 tCO2 10,828 tCO2 23,023 tCO2 36,977 tCO2 to environmental loans Bank Audi contributed to reducing the nation’s carbon footprint through facilitating environmental loans granted by the Central Bank (Circular 236), in coordination with the Lebanese Centre for Energy Conservation (LCEC), as observed since 2013. These loans helped various residential, commercial and industrial projects emerge with reduced carbon emissions. Hence an overall saving of 36,977 tCO2 in carbon footprint using efficient energy efficient and solar or photovoltaic solutions. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 70 CONCORDANCE TABLE GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 102 General Disclosures Organisational Profile 102-1 Report the name of the organisation. 6.3.10. P. 7 6.4.16.4.5. 102-2 Report the primary brands, products and services. 6.8.5. P. 9, 46, 59 7.8. 102-3 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. P. 7 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where it has significant operations or that are specifically P. 7 102-4 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the Report. 102-5 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. P. 7 102-6 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). P. 7 Report the scale of the organisation, including: SDG 8 P. 9, 14, 59 Total number of employees. Total number of operations. 102-7 Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector organisations). Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations). Quantity of products or services provided. a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. Principle 6 SDG 5 P. 64 b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. SDG 8 c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. SDG 10 d. Whether a significant portion of the organisation’s activities are performed by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description of SDG 16 102-8 the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). f. An explanation of how the data was compiled, including any assumptions made. A description of the organisation’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the organisation’s activities, primary brands, products, SDG 8 P. 21 102-9 and services. Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain P. 7 Changes in the location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions. 102-10 Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations). Changes in the location of suppliers and the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. SDG 8 P. 11, 58 102-11 Report whether and how the organisation applies the Precautionary Principle or approach. SDG 9 SDG 13 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or SDG 8 P. 2, 4, 6, 8, 49 102-12 which it endorses.. 102-13 A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and national or international advocacy organisations. Principle 3 P. 49 CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 71 GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE Strategy 4.7. P. 3 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy for 6.2. 102-14 addressing sustainability. 7.2. 7.4.2. 6.3.5. Principle 1 SDG 8 P. 57 Principle 2 102-15 A description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Principle 4 Principle 6 Principle 10 Ethics and Integrity 4.4. Principle 10 SDG 8 P. 11 102-16 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour. 6.6.3. SDG 16 Governance The reporting organisation shall report the following information: 6.2. P. 7 102-18 a. Governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance body. 7.4.3. Annual Report 2018, b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics. 7.7.5. p.18, refer to the website Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 5.3. P. 51 6.3.10. Principle 3 SDG 8 P. 64 6.4.16.4.5. SDG 10 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 6.8.5. SDG 16 7.8. 102-42 Report the basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage. 5.3. P. 51 6.7.1 6.7.2. Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an 6.7.6. P. 51 102-43 indication of whether any of the engagements was undertaken specifically as part of the Report’s preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that were raised through stakeholder engagement, including: P. 8, 51 102-44 i. How the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ii. The stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Reporting Practice Report the following information: 5.2. P. 49 102-45 a. List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. 7.3.2. 7.3.4. b. Whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the Report. a. Explain the process for defining the Report’s content and the aspect boundaries. P. 49, 50 102-46 b. Explain how the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for defining the Report’s content. 102-47 List all the material topics identified in the process for defining the Report’s content. P. 49, 50 102-48 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. P. 49 102-49 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topic and topic boundaries. P. 49 CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 72 GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE 102-50 Reporting period for the information provided. 7.5.3. P. 49 7.6.2. 102-51 Date of most recent previous report (if applicable). P. 49 102-52 Reporting cycle (such as annual or biennial). P. 49 102-53 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the Report or its content. P. 49 The reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 49 a. The claim made by the organisation, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards. Either: 102-54 i. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option; or ii. This report was prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option. The reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 70 a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the Report. b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: 102-55 i. The number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards). ii. The page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the Report or in other published materials. iii. If applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot be made. The reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 49 a. A description of the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the Report. b. If the Report has been externally assured: i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability 102-56 report, a description of what has and what has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process. ii. The relationship between the organisation and the assurance provider. iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or Senior Executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. 103 Management Approach For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report the following information: 5.2. P. 55, 56 a. An explanation of why the topic is material. 6. b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: 6.3.6. 103-1 i. Where the impacts occur. 7.3.1. 7.3.4. ii. The organisation’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organisation has caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly 7.4.3. linked to the impacts through its business relationships. 7.7.3. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. 7.7.5. For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 56 a. An explanation of how the organisation manages the topic. b. A statement of the purpose of Management’s approach. c. A description of the following, if Management’s approach includes that component: i. Policies. 103-2 ii. Commitments. iii. Goals and targets. iv. Responsibilities. v. Resources. vi. Grievance mechanisms. vii. Specific actions such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives. For each material topic, the reporting organisation shall report the following information: P. 56 a. An explanation of how the organisation evaluates Management’s approach, including: 103-3 i. The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of Management’s approach. ii. The results of the evaluation of Management’s approach. iii. Any related adjustments to Management’s approach. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 73 GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS 200 Economic Standards Economic Performance 6.8.1 6.8.3. SDG 5 P. 9, 14, 27, 44, 59, 61 6.8.7. SDG 7 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 6.8.9. SDG 8 SDG 9 SDG 13 Market Presence 6.3.7. Principle 6 SDG 5 P. 37 6.3.10. SDG 8 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage. 6.4.3. SDG 10 6.4.4. SDG 16 6.8.1 6.8.2. Indirect Economic Impact 6.3.9. SDG 4 P. 18, 20, 27, 31, 39, Report the following information: 6.8.1 6.8.2. SDG 5 60, 61, 62, 67 a. Extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. 203-1 6.8.5. SDG 8 b. Current or expected impacts on communities and local economies, including positive and negative impacts where relevant. 6.8.7. SDG 9 c. Whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. 6.8.9. Procurement Practices 6.4.3. P. 21 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers. 6.8.1 6.8.2. 6.8.7. Anti-corruption 6.6.1 6.6.3. Principle 10 P. 11, 58 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures. 6.6.6. Principle 2 300 Environmental Standards Energy Principle 7 SDG 7 P. 44, 68 Principle 8 SDG 9 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation. Principle 9 SDG 12 SDG 13 SDG 15 Emissions 6.5.5. SDG 12 P. 44, 68, 69 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). SDG 13 SDG 12 P. 44, 68, 69 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). SDG 13 SDG 12 P. 44, 68, 69 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). SDG 13 SDG 12 P. 44, 68, 69 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. SDG 13 Effluents and Waste 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 6.5.3. SDG 12 P. 44, 67 CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 74 GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE 400 Social Standards Employment 6.4.3. Principle 6 SDG 4 P. 37, 65 SDG 5 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. SDG 8 SDG 10 SDG 16 6.4.4. SDG 8 P. 38 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. 6.8.7. Report the following information: 6.4.4. SDG 4 P. 37, 66 a. Total number of employees that were entitled to parental leave, by gender. SDG 5 b. Total number of employees that took parental leave, by gender. SDG 8 401-3 c. Total number of employees that returned to work in the reporting period after parental leave ended, by gender. d. Total number of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months after their return to work, by gender. e. Return to work and retention rates of employees that took parental leave, by gender. Training and Education Average hours of training that the organisation’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by: 6.4.7. SDG 4 P. 37, 62 404-1 i. Gender. SDG 5 ii. Employee category. SDG 8 Report the following information: 6.4.7. SDG 4 P. 62 a. Type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. 6.8.5. SDG 8 404-2 b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. 6.4.7. SDG 5 P. 62 Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received a regular performance and career development review 404-3 6.8.5. during the reporting period. 6.4.3. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Report the following information: 6.2.3. SDG 4 P. 64 a. Percentage of individuals within the organisation’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: 6.3.7. SDG 5 i. Gender. 6.3.10. SDG 10 ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old. 6.4.3. SDG 16 405-1 iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). b. Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: i. Gender. ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old. iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). 6.3.7. SDG 5 P. 37 6.3.10. SDG 8 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, by significant locations of operation. 6.4.3. SDG 10 6.4.4. SDG 16 Human Rights Assessment 412-1 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or human rights impact assessments, by country. 6.3.5. Principle 1 SDG 16 P. 57 Principle 2 Report the following information: Principle 4 P. 11 a. Total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human Principle 6 412-2 rights that are relevant to operations. b. Percentage of employees trained during the reporting period in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. CSR REPORT 2018 EXPERTS’ CORNER 75 GRI STANDARDS ISO 26000 UN GLOBAL COMPACT SDG REFERENCE Local Communities 6.8.1. SDG 4 P. 26, 28, 30 Report the percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and/or 6.8.2. SDG 8 413-1 development programs. 6.8.3. 6.8.9. Whether each of the following types of information is required by the organization’s procedures for product and service Principle 7 P. 57 information and labeling: Principle 9 i. The sourcing of components of the product or service; 417-1 ii. Content, particularly with regard to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact; iii. Safe use of the product or service; iv. Disposal of the product and environmental or social impacts Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in the social and economic area. 4.6. SDG 16 P. 11 SECTOR SPECIFIC INDICATORS Product Portfolio SDG 4 P. 20, 27 SDG 5 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by SDG 8 G4-FS7 purpose. SDG 9 SDG 11 SDG 13 SDG 7 P. 44 SDG 8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken G4-FS8 SDG 9 down by purpose. SDG 13 SDG 15 Local Communities SDG 8 P. 20 G4-FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. SDG 16 SDG 8 P. 20, 26 SDG 9 G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. SDG 11 SDG 16 * Principle 5: Child Labour, N/A. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS We would like to thank all the departments, branches and individuals who have made a significant contribution in this report, as well as employees and stakeholders who have participated in the assessment process, providing feedback and helping us improve and move forward. We would also like to thank our consultants for their comments and suggestions which have contributed to our efforts to integrate best practices in this report. To further protect the environment, we have opted for a soft version only of our full-fledged 2018 CSR Report, with an executive summary in print.
