Global Compact Communication on Progress Raya Holding 2018 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 1 CHAIRMAN STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 2018 It is our great pleasure to re-affirm our continuous support to the UN Global Compact and its principles for the 13th year. At Raya, we are committed in doing business in a financially, environmentally and socially responsible way. Having a dynamic and diversified portfolio of business lines, we are constantly anticipating, adapting and creating new business opportunities regardless of the challenges we face in our business environment. Our sustained growth and success lies in our ability to create long-term value to our key stakeholders; our employees, customers, investors, business partners and the community in which we operate. Indeed, we are well aware of the footprint and socio-economic impacts we have over the years on local market by introducing and developing products and services and by providing decent jobs opportunities. It becomes critical to get things right. For that reason, we abide by our core corporate values “Respect for People, Customer Focus, Teamwork and Excellence” in setting our ambitious targets and evaluating our performance. To constantly do better, we place a great deal in enabling our people to do their job and furfill their potential in a healthy and safe working environment. We are currently working towards removing any barriers and making Raya a more diverse and inclusive organization where all employees would equally strive and feel aspired and engaged. In 2018, we sustained our commitment to social development addressing pressing challenges in our communities of education and poverty alleviation. We have collaborated with non-governmental agencies specialized in improving the quality of education in underserved areas and addressing chronic societal issues related to poverty. Believing in the value of civic engagement for our organization and the well-being it brings to our employees, we have institutionalized corporate volunteering activities within our organization as part of our social responsibility mandate. We do realize that as businesses we play a pivotal in promoting Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) and Raya as UN Global Compact active participant is committed to contribute these goals, striving to become a local SDGs pioneer through constant improvement of our economic, social, environmental and governance performance. Medhat Khalil Chairman & CEO Raya Holding 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Chairman Statement of Continued Support in 2018 .................................................................... 2 Introduction ................................................................................................................................... 4 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principles .......................................................... 5 United Nations Global Compact Labor Standards Principles ...................................................... 9 United Nations Global Compact Environment Principles .......................................................... 14 United Nations Global Compact Anticorruption Principles ........................................................ 18 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 3 INTRODUCTION Reporting to the UN Global Compact This Communication on Progress accounts for Raya Holding activities during 2018 and its intended plans to be a sustainable business, having a proactive approach to change and ensuring long-term profitability . The Communication on Progress captures our contribution as a committed signatory to the UN Global Compact and its 10 universally accepted 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and its approach to corporate sustainability. We are constantly making efforts in doing business responsibly and profitably creating value to our key stakeholders, shareholders, employees, customers and business partners and society in a sustainable manner. Raya Holding is an active participant in the UN Global Compact since 2005 and is constantly providing support to the local UN Global Compact Network Egypt. 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 4 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our “Respect for People”and safety laws, regulations, statuary obligations, client and industry regulations. Raya Holding is committed to protecting human rights; which is reflected in how we As part of our commitment to health and treat our employees, deal with our safety, we have developed and suppliers and how we strive to make implemented an Occupational, Health and sustainable impact in the communities we Safety Policy. The goal of this policy is operate in. “Respect for People” is one provide safe and healthy work place and Raya’s core values; being a vital principle working environment to employees, we adhere to as a company. This contractors, customers and visitors; having commitment is embedded in our Code of a proactive management approach to issues Business Conduct (COBC). related to health and safety. Additionally, there is a Committee for Health and Safety Protecting Our People and Other chaired by the Company’s Chairman formed Stakeholders by members representing different business lines and departments who is responsible Health and Safety for overseeing health and safety issues and At Raya Holding, we are committed to demands. protect the health and safety of our In line with the efforts to promote a employees, guests and neighbors, as part of corporate culture where health and safety our support to human rights. We considered in daily business operations, continuously develop and improve our awareness and training sessions are internal standards for safety and security periodically conducted to employees from systems. Since 2012, Raya holding have firefighting, first aid training to more achieved OHSAS 18001:2007 certification, technical trainings given to employees which relates to occupational health and across business lines. In 2018, 67 safety. In 2018, Raya Holding has worked to employees received these trainings and acquire and is currently certified with the awareness sessions. recent OH&S standards, ISO 45001:2018 complying with related occupational health 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 5 Data Privacy and Information Security As part our risk management efforts, at In 2018, we sustained our support to social Raya we recognize the significance of initiatives tackling issues in the educational protecting the privacy and security of sector; focusing on skills development and personal and business data for our creating sustained social impact. customers and employees. Education being the cornerstone of We have in place an Information Security sustainable development, Raya Holding’s Policy committing employees to protect the CSR focuses on promoting quality confidentiality, integrity and availability of education. For that purpose, we have been all the physical and electronic information collaborating and supporting Educate Me assets. In line with this policy, Raya Holding foundation projects since 2015. Educate Me is ISO 27001 certified since 2009 and we is an innovative and promising NGO whose have established an Information Security mission is to develop educational solutions Management System (ISMS) which is for children and teachers, with selfintended to be an enabling mechanism for actualization at the center of their information sharing, for electronic educational model. Their model aims to operations, and for reducing informationcreate a generation of cultivated individuals related risks to acceptable levels. who are aware of their identities and conscious of their potentials, can make Moreover, there is an Acceptable Use Policy choices and take actions that maximize (AUP) which ensures that all employees their potentials. know how to deal appropriately and responsibly with information considering Recognizing the potential for impactful the level of sensitivity of data; preventing change for Educate Me’s work, we have breach of confidentiality of personal and supported Educate Me in their community business information and preventing school in Talbeya, their Teacher Training compromising the network systems. Program and School Transformation Program. We are currently partnering with them in their School Transformation Taking Action in Support of Broader Program in three public schools in El Fayoum. Throughout this school UN Goals and Issues transformation program, 109 school staff Strategic Social Investments; Supporting have been trained about the 21st century Education and Promoting Corporate skills, how to deal with students using a Volunteering humanistic approach and to develop their own self-development program and seek excellence. 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 6 Student Camps “Building Pioneers” Leveraging on our School Transformation Program implemented in the above mentioned three public schools targeting all staff members in these schools, Raya Holding for Financial Investments has sponsored three students camps “Building Pioneers” in these schools in El Fayoum. 368 students have attended these camps. The objective of these camps is to enable children through activities-based learning Sustainability and Entrepreneurship Youth and fun-led activities to understand and ProgramPromoting Circular Economy and grasp the significance of values such as Waste Management creativity, collaboration, respect, creativity and responsibility. Raya Holding in collaboration with BariQ, factory has partnered in 2018 with Youthink Through this unique learning journey, Green Egypt. Youthink Green Egypt in a children were able to express themselves social enterprise that is actively working and their creativity. They were able to since 2013 in promoting sustainable discuss the challenges they face and work to development education and innovation. This solve their problems in a creative manner. In year, we have decided to support their addition, they had the chance to learn more Sustainability and Entrepreneurship Youth about the cultural heritage of El Fayoum and Program (SEYP), whose objective is to the leaders who originated from El Fayoum. educate and empower youth to innovate More importantly, they had the opportunity eco-friendly creative solutions to local to have first-hand experience and learn sustainability challenges that face Egypt. about teamwork, time management and This year programs focuses on finding on the presentation skills. These camps were a importance of the circular economy with aim unique learning experience for these boys to find innovative solutions related to waste and girls. management. This program is aligned with Raya’s CSR objective in promoting awareness about the importance of recycling and nurturing youth with sustainability knowledge and developing their entrepreneurial skills. This program targeted around 254 youth in different governorates in Cairo, Alexandria, Assuit, Ismailia and Mansoura Corporate Volunteering & Civic Engagement Activities The real impact lies in being connected and engaged in the community. For that reason, 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 7 The real impact lies in being connected and engaged in the community. For that reason, Raya’s CSR department is focusing on corporate volunteering and engaging employees in the company’s CSR initiatives. Believing in the potential of community volunteering to bring about wellness for our employees and positive societal impact, we have organized several volunteering activities over the year. In 2018, over 116 employees across Raya Lines of Business invested over 1280 hours in community engagement activities. 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 8 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment demonstrate these values in our work. This is well articulated in our Code of Business Raya’s has ongoing commitment to Conduct (COBC), to emphasize respect, upholding labor standards-including integrity, fairness and doing the right thing freedom of association, elimination of in everything we do. forced labor, compulsory and child labor; and elimination of discrimination. This commitment to labor standards in Promoting High Labor Standards for Our embedded in our different HR policies, People worker-manager social dialogue, training and communication tools provided to all At the core of our business are the skills and employees. the know-how of our people-Human Capital. Valuing our people, we make sure This is reflected in company’s core values, that we apply high labor standards in hiring, Respect for People, Customer Focus, promoting and implementing talent Teamwork and Excellence. These values management and leadership programs. Our have helped define Raya and they continue employees are hired, promoted and receive to shape each of us in our business training based on meritocracy. In addition, relationships with one another, our Raya has wellestablished different customers, shareholders, suppliers, recognition programs that allow competitors and the communities in which outstanding employees to be recognized for we live and operate. We expect to their achievements. Each employee is 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 9 eligible to be nominated for any of Raya’s achievement and is rewarded with a recognition programs to be filtered by an unique recreational 5 days trip, usually objective selection committee that abroad. evaluates winners based on strict pre-set criteria. Employees are recognized through the following programs: Talent & Leadership Development Programs  Wall of Fame Program: Managers who over-achieve their target for 4 Raya’s Corporate Learning & Development consecutive years and accomplish a team work on various corporate trainings across superior landmark in the history of the all levels and lines of businesses. Raya’s organization are rewarded through Foundation Programs are one of the strongest becoming candidates for Raya Wall of trainings we organize; there are four levels for these programs: The Essentials, Supervisory, Fame, which is located in the entrance Managerial and Leadership Development of the building and has one member’s Programs. Each level targets different grades at name (selected by previous program’s Raya and has a different outline to fulfill the winner) engraved for each historical needs of this level. The content is specially year of the organization. developed for Raya to have something tailormade for the needs of our employees. Each  Star of the Quarter: Each department year, we have numerous training rounds. In head nominates an employee as the 2018, 194 employees received the trainings star of the quarter based on Raya’s related to these different programs. The values (Excellence, Team Work, trainings cover modules varying from human Customer Focus, and Respect for relations, high impact presentations, leadership, People). A selection committee selects negotiations, project management, etc. The one employee to represent each line of training methodology is very interactive there is business for the quarter. Finally the little lecturing and a lot of tools and activities. committee selects one star of all lines of The Corporate Learning & Development team is business candidates. Winners of each planning to expand their training for the coming years to ensure that we are equipping all Raya value are rewarded with a recognition employees with the training and development certificate and to join Raya Achievers they need to advance in their career and grow. Club’s trip (see next point).  Raya Achievers Club: Employees who have exerted outstanding efforts in the Ongoing Communication with Employees preceding year (either quantitative or At Raya, we make sure that employees have qualitative results) are part of the a voice and are able to raise work relatedannual Raya Achievers Club. This group issues through different indirect and direct is recognized by certificates of superior communication channels. Employees are 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 10 able to communicate with management employees who are more committed to through following mechanisms: the long-term goals of the organization.  Annual Kick Off Meeting: At the beginning of the year, Raya conducts a  Speak-Up System : When an employee kick-off meeting for all employees. Each has a concern regarding their working line of business celebrates the conditions and want to raise issues accomplishments of the past year and related to fairness, Risk to health and shares the goals and strategy for the safety, or else, the “Speak-Up System’ coming one. During that meeting, provides a guideline for employees on employees are encouraged to liaise with how to raise an issue and or complaints the senior management. to management.  Raya Town Hall Meeting: A yearly  Whistleblowing System: any employee corporate event where senior who suspects wrongdoing from any of management and Raya’s achievers and the senior management team -in his/her top performers are invited to attend Line of Business or in another Line of and discuss the overall strategy for the Businessto raise his/her concern year. During this event, Raya’s directly through reporting the incident celebrates the wall of fame winner of to the Whistleblowing email known to the year and the annual stars leaders in employees. portraying Raya’s core values. Promoting the Health and WellBeing of  Bi-weekly Chairman Breakfast: Employees Randomly selected employees from all We support the advancement of health by organizational levels get face-to-face providing various types of health guidance contact with the chairman to highlight and raising health awareness. any concerns and asks questions about Raya’s vision and direction. To encourage active lifestyles, Raya helps employees make active choices. Well Rayetna: Our internal portal for equipped gym, showers, health and wellness tips, running programs, team documenting all corporate event and sports, and Healthy Corner offer healthy policies. We will be adding more options and are just some of the measures interactive features. that encourage fitness and healthy lifestyles amongst employees.  On-going Focus groups and Employee Engagement Surveys are conducted to In the effort to prevent illnesses, Raya, measure and ensure that the employees together with Raya Sports & Activities Committee, are promoting initiatives that are engaged not just satisfied, because a focus on exercise and healthy eating. Sport more engaged workforce will result in activities and competitions are organized on 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 11 regular basis ranging from activities such as Celebrating International Women’s Day football, tennis and basketball to activities such as tennis table, air hockey and chess. At Raya, we celebrate yearly International Women’s Day. This year, we organized a leadership workshop delivered by a Gender Diversity and Women’s distinguished women leadership expert and Empowerment Initiatives coach Rania Abu Rabia. This topic of the workshop was how to adopt a winning At Raya, we acknowledge the significance of mindset. a gender balanced workforce in general and across the IT sector in particular. A part of our commitment to gender diversity and women’s empowerment principle, Raya’s CEO signed this year the Statement of Support expressing Raya’s support to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) disseminated by the United Nations Entity got Gender Equality and UN Women. This year, in celebration to Women’s Committed to develop the required policies International Day, we produced a video and systems that would encourage gender celebrating and thanking all women across diversity and closing the gaps of women in, different business functions for their Raya participated and proudly won the GIZvaluable contributions at work. ECONWIN (when women work, economies win) competition for gender diversity, which is a regional program pioneered to empower women economically. This gender diversity program is currently being implemented in two major business lines at Raya; with the objective to create a more inclusive working environment that maintains the motivation and aspirations of all employees over the long-term. 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 12 Raya Community Day “Inclusion Builds At Raya, we value the importance of Community” advancing environmental sustainability and promoting environmentally friendly Working towards creating a more enabling technologies. Over the years, Raya group and inclusive working environment, we have invested in key business lines where have organized Raya Community Day in environmental stewardship is a cornerstone collaboration with Helm whose mission is to their operations. promote the full inclusion of persons with disabilities in all aspects of life. Staff members across all business lines were encouraged to attend. The purpose of this day is to raise awareness about inclusion and change our perceptions about people with special abilities through engaging and team building activities with people with disabilities. Workshop on How to Employ People with Special Abilities In collaboration with Ministry of Communication and Information and Technology, Raya Holding Human Resources and Corporate Social Responsibility department, organized a workshop for HR personal across Raya Lines of Business on how to interview and employ people with disabilities. 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 13 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Converting Raya Head Quarters into an importance of recycling. Then, we launched energy efficient building the “Recycle and Get Rewards” campaign by installing a reverse vending machine to Raya Holding is constantly looking for ways encourage employees to recycle their cans to reduce its energy consumption and using and plastic bottles in exchange of rewards. more environmentally friendly measures. Further, we conducted a recycling competition among our employees Raya started converting the lighting systems motivating and recognizing those who in the Head Office to LED technology. In participated the most in the “Recycle and 2018, Raya has fully completed its project Get Rewards” campaign. resulting in the reduction of lighting consumption by 50% in 2018 and the reduction of overall electricity consumption despite increase of our workforce capacity. Recycling Awareness CampaignChoose Green Recycling and waste management have a great impact on the natural environment. For this specific reason, Raya’s corporate social responsibility department has cooperated with one of its subsidiary BariQ Raya Smart Buildings: developing energy to raise awareness about recycling and to efficient and resource-saving commercial & conduct a recycling campaign. We placed offices complexes recycling bins in HQ premise. We conducted regular recycling awareness sessions, As part of our efforts in promoting educating our employees about the environmental friendly business models, 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 14 Raya Smart Buildings developed Galleria 40, CO2, while also saving 244,500 oil barrels; a multipurpose green commercial building following saving 106 Giga Watt Hour of constructed according to international energy. standard of green building through the Recycling PET plastics at BariQ uses twoLEED program certification, by U.S Green thirds less energy than that required from Building Council (USGBC). This complex is new (virgin) materials, and for every ton of designed to be a model of sustainability in rPET used greenhouse gas emissions are terms of energy efficiency, water, carbon reduced by over 1.5 tons of CO2. Finally, emissions and waste. rPET reduces the amount of energy needed BariQ: First manufacturer of recycled in manufacturing compared to virgin resin, polyethylene terephthalate in the MENA offering a saving in electricity costs. region Bringing state-of-the-art green technology Sustainability in Practice: School & to the region, BariQ is the first University Visits/Projects manufacturer of recycled polyethylene terephthalate (RPET) pellets in Egypt, the As part of BariQ efforts in promoting the Middle East & North Africa Region. Backed significance of recycling and raising the by world-class technology providers, awareness of students in schools and MENA’s first “bottle-to-bottle” firm, BariQ, universities, BariQ organizes school & reprocesses post-consumer plastic PET university visits. The students learn about bottles with a total annual quantity of the importance of the recycling staring from 25,000 MT (approximately 1 billion bottles), the sorting phase, then the collection of the that would otherwise likely become part of waste and delivery to the dedicated the landfill or burnt, providing top-quality recycling plants where these items are food-grade pellets to major international cleaned then transformed into new bottle and food container makers and products. Also, during these visits BariQ major recycled-material fiber producers team highlights the consequences if these throughout Europe and the United States. wastes were not recycled which would BariQ’s pellets are proudly approved by otherwise become part of the landfills or international regulators including the U.S. burnt and so pollute our environment, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the causing an imbalance to our ecosystem and European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), endanger all living beings and the human Health Canada and REACH. health. BariQ Environmental Performance BariQ also collaborates with several universities each year in the graduation By recycling 20 thousand tons of bottles in projects of their engineering departments. 2018, this resulted in saving 22500 Tons 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 15 BariQ intends to replicate such experience Recycled Polyolefin (RPO) Production Lines with many more schools & universities in BariQ team started categorizing all its waste the coming period as part of its while closely monitoring market trends and sustainability program, aiming at building expenses. These figures ultimately made new generations well aware of the the case for establishing new Recycled importance of recycling, changing their Polyolefin (RPO) production lines. The new lifestyle to be more caring about their lines enable the company to use so-called environment, and knowing tomorrow’s slow-moving waste items by converting challenges. them into non-food grade products. Lean Supply Chain Implementation Alongside BariQ’s food-grade PET products, these new items help the company As part of BariQ’s strategic objectives for penetrate new markets by offering a more the coming years, BariQ fully implemented diversified product mix. Moreover, this in 2017 the Lean Supply Chain project in production line provides two new sources partnership with one of the leading service of raw materials for the existing PET providers. production lines via reworking both The main objectives of implementing the generated waste relieving pressure. Lean Supply Chain principles are eliminating the different wastes that might occur throughout the value chain in order to improve the quality of the final product, and having fewer defects and rework. In terms of operations, improving our material handling processes to ease the transportation of raw materials and goods to utilize all of our material handling equipment and workforce; which resulted in less breakdowns, organized workplace, higher efficiencies and more output to be Energy Saving Measures achieved. Additionally, reaching lower levels of inventory and on-time delivery of BariQ awareness to energy efficiency was orders will eventually lead to greater highlighted and increased through the customer satisfaction and improved UNIDO project, after effort done during the profitability. project and being able to work on machine development to save energy; BariQ has purchased a grinder machine which uses less energy than the previous machine and 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 16 produce more output. This will help us to conserve 15% energy on the grinders. Energy Recovery Kit (ERK) In collaboration with BariQ’s business partner and top-notch Austrian machinery supplier, an Energy Recovery Kit (ERK) was installed in the SSP production line, which recovers some of the heat generated in the process and allows it to be reused in the early production stages, saving energy and money. The cooling temperature of the final product has reduced significantly from 180°C down to approximately 120°C, in addition to reducing the heating energy required for the input air by 60°C. 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 17 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. At Raya, we maintain the highest standards their roles and responsibilities in abiding of ethics and integrity in all its business and acting according to these standards; operations. We maintain honest and open and in reporting non-compliance to our relationships based on mutual trust. We Code of Conduct. honor all our commitments internal and Raya demonstrates a strong commitment to external whether verbal or written – values transparency and accountability and its and mission statement. Internally, there is Board believes that sound corporate an established internal auditing system governance practices provide an essential where all departments and expenditures foundation to assist it in fulfilling its are audited on an ad-hoc basis to ensure responsibilities in building value and trust that all the budgets are spent properly for all stakeholders (employees, partners, according to the company’s policies. customers, and shareholders). Externally, any sort of bribery and fraudulent act is not allowed, putting forward transparency as the only way forward for a better economy. Raya emphasizes anti-corruption strategies through clear financial and project reports. Our policies state clearly that employees are not allowed any form of corruption and bribery and have set clear rules to business operations and customer and supplier relationship management, governing the exchange of any sort of gifts/ giveaways. These policies are clearly and directly communicated to all employees upon their hiring in a “code of business conduct” manual. The compliance to Raya’s of Code of Conduct and its standards is regularly communicated to employees; specifying 2018 Global Compact Communication on Progress 18
