Date: 28th January, 2015 H.E. Ban Ki-­‐Moon Secretary-­‐General United Nations United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr.Secretary-­‐General, I an honored to confirm that Information Matrix has committed to fulfill our company’s strategy, culture and daily work by implementation the ten principles in the areas of human rights, Labor standards, environment and anti-­‐corruption. In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of Global Compact and its principles into our daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders and the general public. Sincerely yours, Thanung Su Nyein Managing Director Information Matrix Co.,Ltd Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Management Approach We respect not only the international human rights standards but also local laws and other applicable supplemental employment policies. The protection of Human Rights is embedded in our numerous operating processes and control mechanisms. Our company policy, operations, business relationships respect and support internationally recognized human rights. Non-­‐Discrimination We are an equal opportunity employer. We are deeply committed to providing equal employment opportunities for all of our employees and to maintaining a workplace environment that is free harassment and discrimination. We clearly mentioned that our employment process and policy in our employee hand book. There is no discrimination in Recruitment and selection process, wage policy, promotion policy, termination policy, compensation policy, admittance of training program and any other aspect of the employment relationship based on race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion, physical or mental disability, marital status. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining We strives to ensure that the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are upheld, that the company does not engage in forced and compulsory labour and child labour, and that the company works to ensure diversity and non-­‐discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Child Labor There is no recruitment of children and young person under 18 years of age. Our Polices and procedures are supporting the Local Labour law. We strongly support the effective abolition of child labour. Forced and Compulsory Labor We do not accept any form of forced and compulsory labor in the business operation of Media, IT and Services. Measurement of outcomes We carried out periodic review of results by senior management and the results show is no cases of human right violations, complaints and breaches during this report period. Labor Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Management Approach We operate very open and honest dialogue. Company employee’s handbook clearly state that it covers polices concerning our employee rights and responsibilities, and their compensations and benefits. We are continuing to refine our employee handbook yearly renewal as needed and incorporate the Global Compact. We will ensure a diverse work force working in a healthy and safe working environment. Labor/Management relations Information Matrix has fixed the norms of working hours in Heard Office and branch offices. All employees are entitled not only the same working hours but also monthly salaries, overtime allowances for extra hours if any, extra meal allowance for overtimes, travel and meal allowances, transportation provision, Social Security Insurances at Social Security Board for the employees, yearly leave entitlement; casual leave, earned leave, maternity leave, paternity leave, marriage leave, leave for Funerals and Bereavement, medical leave, fully paid extended medical leave and half paid extended medical leave. We are not forced (or) compelled to work. Occupational health and safety It is the responsibility of each employee to conduct all tasks in a health and safety manner complying with all regulations and program standards, and with any special safety concerns for use in a particular area or with a client. Training and Education We are committed to the education and development of our employees. Our Human Resources provides learning opportunities such as in-­‐house training/seminar, outside training and post-­‐graduate oversea study that respond to the needs of the organization while enhancing job performance and furthering professional growth. Diversity and equal opportunity We provide equal employment opportunities (EEO) to all employees an applicants for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, marital status, status as a covered in accordance with applicable local laws. We comply with applicable local laws governing nondiscrimination in employment in every location in which the company has facilities. This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, recall, transfer, and leaves of absence, compensation and training. Equal remuneration for women and men We treat all women and men fairly at work including benefits for work of equal value and strive to pay a living wage to all women and men. We take care all components of remuneration for women and men -­‐ overtime, work materials: uniforms, tools and etc., Family allowances, allowances in respect of head of household, social security contributions, scholarships, supplements or incentives: company car, representation expenses, health benefits, paid vacations, leisure, etc., Measurement of outcomes We carried out periodic review of results by senior management to abide by the local labor law. Zero complains from employees regarding company employees’ handbook and there is no child labor and force labor during the report period. Environment Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environment responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Management Approaches We are committed to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We reduce our use of resources and the environment impact from our activities by practicing the waste management system with 3Rs. We utilize our strength and resources to raise environmental awareness for our readers by putting environment education and/or protection articles and cartoon in our daily newspaper and in other publications. We assign one full page for the environment special reports every week. We are also practicing the waste management hierarchy with 3Rs – reduce, reuse and recycling. We use 3Rs in the following ways; • Distribute our daily newspapers to local distributors by using bicycles • the amount of paper that we use by double-­‐sided photocopying, printing, and using electronic communication • Reduce paper usage by using paperless online reporting and communicating system, Internal Information System (IIS) • Choose products for which refills are available • Reduce consumption of electricity by using energy saving LCD monitors for all the computers • Reduce consumption of fuels by efficient usage of vehicles and generators • Reuse recycle papers and recycle bags • Set up a recycling scheme in the office for scrap paper, toner cartridges, batteries, etc., • Donate old computers, electronic appliances, and furniture give to needy people • Replace paper towels with washable cloth towels • Choose environmentally friendly alternatives if available, such as biodegradable cleaners and garbage bags, also use less toxic chemicals Measurement of outcomes No cases of impacts on environment and no complaints are reported during the report period. Anti-­‐corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Management Approach We conduct its business fairly, impartially, in an ethical and proper manner, in accordance with the company’s values and code of conduct, and in full compliance with all relevant laws, including anti-­‐corruption laws and we uphold the high standard business ethics and media ethics standards within our company and among the stakeholders. In conducting company business, integrity underlies all company relationships, including those with customers, readers, distributors, suppliers, communities and among employees. All employees are prohibited from engaging in bribery and are required to maintain proper business contacts and relationships with representatives. We are committed to fair and open business conduct in our business society. Underlying this commitment is that we do business basic on price, quality and service, and in full compliance with UNGC principles. We also have established approval processes and tools for reviewing and approving gifts, travel and entertainment to our dealing with business partners. We maintain internal accounting and audition procedures related to anticorruption. We maintain HR procedures supporting our anticorruption commitment. No one in our organization makes it unlawful for Information Matrix or Information Matrix’s products to corruptly offer, gift, present, promise to pay or give, authorize or receive any bribe and illicit payment. Measurement of outcomes We carried out periodic review of results by senior management for the breach of policies and impose penalties according to the degree of the breach. No disciplinary taken action on any of our employees.
