COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT DECEMBER 2016  COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | DECEMBER 2016 04 President’s Statement 06 Our Group 08 Our People 10 Our Social Responsibility 12 Human Rights 14 Labour Rights 16 Environment 18 Anti-corruption  President’s Statement COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | DECEMBER 2016 In Intracom Telecom, we conduct our business by safeguarding pollution prevention, providing excellent workplace conditions for our employees and serving the communities in which we operate. We are fully aligned with the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles and participate in CSR Hellas and Global Compact Network Hellas’ activities. In 2016: » We continued the technological advancement of our products and solutions serving and powering the Smart, connected City necessities. » We extended and improved further our integrated management system (quality management, environmental management, occupational health and safety, social accountability and information security management). » We endorsed the European Pact for Youth and we participated in the task force, led by CSR Hellas, in order to coordinate the efforts to create 2,000 good quality traineeships in Greece, to reduce the skills gaps and create a new framework for the traineeships. » We established the Code of Business Ethics, applicable to the whole Intracom Telecom Group. One of our major objectives for 2017 is to leverage our ICT expertise to support the education of young people and their scientific research by building more partnerships with Universities. Mohamed Ahmed President of the Board & Managing Director (CEO) Intracom Telecom  Our Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | DECEMBER 2016 19 63% 28% countries with international personnel local presence activities abroad Intracom Telecom is a global telecommunication systems and solutions vendor operating for nearly 40 years in the market. The company was derived from Intracom, a company that began operating in 1977 in Athens, Greece, manufacturing and assembling telecommunication equipment to address domestic needs. In 2005, Intracom was transformed into a holding company and the telecommunications business unit became a company under the name Intracom Telecom. During its nearly four decades of history, the company has successfully participated in major ICT projects worldwide and has received awards and distinctions for its technologies and work environment. Today, the Intracom Telecom Group employs approx. 1,800 highly-skilled professionals and operates own R&D and production facilities. Intracom Telecom has extensive know-how and a proven track record in the telecommunications market, serving more than 100 renowned customers in over 70 countries. The company develops and provides products, solutions and professional services primarily for fixed and mobile telecom operators, public authorities and large public and private enterprises. Intracom Telecom innovates in the areas of small-cell backhaul, wireless transmission and broadband wireless access and has successfully deployed its industry leading point-to-point and point-to-multipoint packet radio systems worldwide. Moreover, the company offers a competitive portfolio of revenue-generating telco software solutions and a complete range of ICT services, focusing on big data analytics, converged networking and cloud computing for operators and private, public and government clouds. Its portfolio also includes renewable & energy management solutions, and cloud-based e-health services. Intracom Telecom delivers successful telecommunication solutions to partners and clients worldwide. The company’s portfolio reaches over 70 countries throughout the world, with a focus on Southeast Europe, Africa and Middle East. Internationally, Intracom Telecom operates and maintains subsidiaries and offices in Albania, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cyprus, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), India, Italy, Moldova, Morocco, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, South Africa, Syria, the United Arab Emirates, and the USA.  Our People COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | DECEMBER 2016 Human Capital Intracom Telecom recognizes that human capital is the key to success in today’s business environment. The Group’s highly specialized and experienced employees are pivotal to achieving demanding objectives and advancing the capabilities of the Group to better serve its customers. Intracom Telecom offers a fast-paced, success-oriented and rewarding working environment fuelled by the talent and skills of its people who are among the best in the industry. Employee Distribution EDUCATION 27% 46% 27% Postgraduate University / Technological High school / Technical Studies Educational Institute school / College FUNCTION Supply Chain Commercial Administration Production R&D Implementation 3.7% 8.2% 10.4% 9.5% 18.5% 49.7% GENDER 74% 26% Group data as of September 2016. 10 Our Social Responsibility (Headquarters) Intracom Telecom is strongly committed to the values of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and contributes to CSR principles through its policies. The company is a member of the Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility, actively supporting the growth and advancement of CSR in Greece. It is also a member of the Global Compact Network Hellas, a United Nations strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | DECEMBER 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS Intracom Telecom fully considers and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the relevant national and European legislation. LABOUR RIGHTS Intracom Telecom abides by local legislation as well as endorses the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. ENVIRONMENT Intracom Telecom supports the UNGC principles on environment and has been monitoring the environmental impact of its activities since its establishment. ANTI-CORRUPTION Intracom Telecom recognizes and values integrity, excellence, innovation and customer satisfaction, and is committed to the highest standard of ethical behaviour in all its actions and decisions. 12 Human Rights » Health & Safety (OHSAS 18001:2007) standard » Corporate procedures Intracom Telecom implements its Occupational Health Written corporate procedures, system manuals and and Safety Management System according to the directives are compliant with United Nations Global OHSAS 18001:2007 standard. This standard ensures Compact (UNGC) principles and requirements of that all Health & Safety regulations are strictly followed OHSAS 18001 and SA8000 standards. The respective in the workplace. It enables the company to identify and documents are published in the corporate portal and are control Occupational Health and Safety risks, to prepare available to all employees and interested parties on line. Emergency Response plans, and to improve overall Also, new employees are informed about human rights performance. corporate procedures and policies through induction seminars during their first working days. » Social Accountability (SA 8000:2008) standard Intracom Telecom is also certified with the SA » Access to knowledge 8000:2008 (Social Accountability) standard. This The company offers reused personal computers to standard ensures the existence of an excellent and safe schools and non-profit organizations in Greece enabling working environment. For both standards, the company them to upgrade their IT infrastructure and facilitate undergoes an audit twice a year by external auditors access to knowledge for their stakeholders. Since 2007, (Bureau Veritas SA) and is recertified every three years. the company has donated more than 500 PCs. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | DECEMBER 2016 » Open door policy and hosted charity bazaars in its premises in Greece. An open-door policy has been established where Moreover, the company continues the collection of bottle employees can report grievances to upper management caps on behalf of the Association of Paraplegic and and to the Human Resources Director. No grievance has Handicapped of Pellas Prefecture in order to exchange been filed for this year. them with wheel chairs for the Association’s members. » Voluntary blood donation » Suppliers’ audits Twice a year, the company organises a voluntary blood Intracom Telecom performs semi-annual audits to donation in its premises, in cooperation with General suppliers regarding, among other issues, human rights Hospital of Athens “G. Gennimatas”, giving employees and labour rights. Furthermore, in its General Purchasing the opportunity to offer blood and save other people’s Conditions, the company requests from its suppliers to lives. In 2016, 142 blood units were collected (16% more uphold a code of conduct aligned with the principles of than the respective number in 2015). United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption principles. » Donation of medicines In 2016, employees along with the company’s medical » Participation in scientific research office donated 4 cartons of medicines and medical The company is involved in national and European supplies to Athens Medical Association in order to be research projects whose main aim is the technological given to patients without social security coverage. advancement along with the creation of high quality and high level value-added jobs in Europe in new business » Support to social groups in need areas. In January 2016, Intracom Telecom became the Since 2005, Intracom Telecom has focused its financial coordinator of symbIoTe, a new research project funded support on non-profit organizations which provide by the European Union, which brings together experts protection and care to social groups in need, especially from fourteen academic/research institutes, SMEs and children. Until today, the company has spent in total over industrial organizations from eight different countries. 200,000 euros on charities. During 2016, the company The project aims to make a significant step towards the continued the long-term collaboration with the nonhorizontal integration and federation of IoT domains, as profit child welfare organization “Smile of the Child” well as the introduction of innovative business models for stakeholders in the IoT value chain; particularly for SMEs and new entrants in the market. » Participation in “European Pact for Youth” initiative Intracom Telecom is committed to support European Pact 4 Youth which was launched by CSR Europe and the European Commission in November 2015 with the vision two committees comprised of University professors and to create a fair and equitable culture of partnership Intracom Telecom executives. between business, education and youth in Europe, to S/W Development workshops at Universities prepare young people for quality jobs and responsible In order to bridge the gap between University students’ citizenship. Intracom Telecom participates in the task theoretical background and technical skills needed in force, led by CSR Hellas, which coordinates the efforts to the labour market, the company collaborated with the create 2,000 good quality traineeships, reduce the skills Electrical Engineering Students’ European Association gaps and create a new framework for the traineeships in (EESEC LC Athens) and organised two workshops on Greece. Following this endorsement, Intracom Telecom Java Enterprise edition and Modern C++ which were undertook several actions in 2016: attended by 70 University students. The feedback was Intracom Telecom Awards to young graduates excellent and highlighted the need for such initiatives. The company has awarded four monetary prizes, of Sharing knowledge with young scientists 2,000 euros each, to graduates of Computer Engineering The company continues to offer to university graduates & Informatics Department and Electrical & Computer the opportunity to participate in research projects as Engineering Department of the University of Patras, part of their thesis and fulfill their industrial placement who submitted outstanding theses in the areas of in the company’s departments, sharing the latest Microelectronics and Networking Software. The awards developments in cutting-edge technology. In 2016, 30 ceremony took place in the Conference & Cultural Center students completed their industrial placement at the of the University of Patras. The awards were decided by company’s premises. 14 Labour Rights » Social Accountability (SA 8000:2008) standard planning, career development, performance appraisal, The company has been one of the first Greek companies rewards management and training and development. to be certified by SA 8000 standard. This standard The Integrated Human Resources Management System ensures the existence of an excellent and safe working aligns with the corporate principles of equal opportunities environment in which non-discriminatory policies are and meritocracy by which employees are paid equally for applied, equal opportunities are offered to all employees the same job, irrespectively of sex, race, physical ability irrespective of gender, age, nationality and religion, etc. The employees are rewarded according to their employee trade union rights are respected, and health performance and their contribution to the achievement and safety procedures are faithfully adhered to. of company’s goals. Employees’ promotions are done once a year as part of the annual performance appraisal » Human Resources Management System procedure. Hiring is based on meritocracy and criteria like The company has also established an Integrated academic qualifications and skills and it is done through Human Resources Management System which includes written exams during an assessment center, organized the following sub-systems: recruitment & succession regularly. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | DECEMBER 2016 » Lifelong learning » Freedom of association Intracom Telecom’s philosophy focuses on the lifelong The company practices freedom of association and learning of its employees and the attraction of highly recognizes the right to collective bargaining. The qualified employees in Greece and abroad. Within this Employees’ Union was established in 1984 and has framework, the company provides its employees with been active ever since. Around 70% of employees are continuous training (in-house and external), determined members of the Union. by the challenges they have to face regarding their job. In 2016, 2,310 training hours were invested on 192 » Open-door policy employees. The “open-door” policy, according to which employees can raise issues to upper management any time, facilitates » Employee benefits transparency and direct communication among all the The company supports the well-being of its employees hierarchy levels. Employees are appreciative of the by providing the following fringe benefits: harmonious working environment, a proof of which is • Free medical insurance plan the fact that no serious employees’ grievances have • Free transportation on corporate buses through central been filed with the HR Director during the last year. routes • One-month paid vacation for parents » Corporate portal • Free parking on company premises Employees are continuously updated through the corporate portal, bulletin boards, e-mail, staff meetings and publications. 16 Environment » Environmental Management System (ISO 14001:2004) Intracom Telecom is committed to conducting its 18001:2007 (Health and Safety) and SA 8000:2008 business in an environmentally sound and sustainable (Social Accountability) based Management Systems. manner and takes precautionary measures to protect the The company is subject to assessments by an environment and minimize any negative environmental independent certification body for its compliance with impacts that may result from its daily operations. The the abovementioned standards. The company seeks company defines and documents identification and continual improvement by setting specific environmental evaluation methods of all environmental aspects of its objectives based on identified environmental impacts operations and their associated impacts. Evaluation is and by monitoring and documenting the achievement performed against predefined criteria including legislative of these objectives. Intracom Telecom recognizes that and other regulatory requirements. Emergency Response environmental responsibility is crucial to its long-term Plans are designed to secure prevention and mitigation success. Developing, manufacturing and marketing of the associated environmental impacts. The company products that are not energy demanding and that can has established an Environmental Management be reused, recycled or disposed of safely along with System (EMS) which is certified in accordance with using environment-friendly manufacturing methods and the international standard ΙSΟ 14001:2004 and is enhancing employee awareness and training, contribute integrated with the ISO 9001:2008 (Quality), OHSAS to its aim towards sustainable development. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | DECEMBER 2016 » Waste management » Energy saving Intracom Telecom’s waste is collected by authorized Intracom Telecom has undertaken a line of action that companies. Indicatively, waste includes used electrical contributes to energy saving and the minimization of and electronic equipment (e.g. PCs of no further use, climate change impacts. Indicatively, the company rejected finished or semi-finished products, etc.), building performs preventive maintenance on equipment and installation lighting, non-usable cables, metals (e.g. iron, electrical networks, regulates electrical parameters, aluminum, etc.), timber (e.g. pallets, wooden reels, etc.), operates building service equipment (e.g. air-conditioning packaging waste, (e.g. cardboard, plastic bags, etc.), units, lifts etc.) in an environment friendly manner, uses printed material, lead batteries (e.g. from uninterruptible video-conference equipment, which reduces the number power supply units-UPS), small batteries, etc. Depending of business trips required, uses integrated information on their physical and chemical properties, waste systems aiming to restrict the consumption of paper, produced is collected by authorized companies and hires coaches for the transportation of personnel from delivered to authorized facilities for provisional storage, central points in the city to Intracom Telecom, etc. sorting, recycling, treatment, recovery or disposal. In 2016, the tonnage of non-hazardous waste was 93 » Ecological design of products tones, while the tonnage of hazardous waste was less Intracom Telecom is paying close attention to the than 0.5 tones(1). latest trend developments in the ICT field, and keeps its personnel informed and aware on the fundamentals » Greenhouse gas emissions and practices of ecological design. Indicatively, design Intracom Telecom calculates and monitors greenhouse fundamentals concern: gas emissions produced from the company’s activities, • the reduction of the use of material that is harmful using internationally approved calculation standards to the environment and the promotion of the use of for greenhouse gas emissions such as “The Greenhouse recycled materials where technically and economically Gas Protocol” etc. In 2016, the CO2 emissions were feasible; 4,301 tones(1)(2). For the sixth consecutive year Intracom • the capability of repairing and upgrading of products Telecom, participated to the Carbon Disclosure Project in order to extend their lifespan; (CDP) initiative and reported on its carbon footprint. • the capability of products to be fully or partially disassembled and reused aiming to facilitate the recycling process and reduce the volume of waste; • the provision of instructions for the end-user regarding the management of equipment at the end of its lifecycle, etc. » Participation to collective alternative management systems Procedures for recycling and reusing materials are applied at all facilities. The company participates in the nationwide Collective Alternative Management System“RECYCLING” (organized by “HE.R.R.CO”) for the collection, sorting and recycling of used packaging materials and in the Collective System for the operation of Alternative Management of WEEE in Greece – “APPLIANCES RECYCLING S.A.”, fully adhering to the EU directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (recast WEEE » Employees’ environmental awareness directive 2012/19/EU). Intracom Telecom aims to increase its employees’ environmental awareness through induction activities, » Restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances reviews and audits. Employees are informed about in electrical and electronic equipment the company’s environmental policy, and relevant Intracom Telecom has taken all necessary steps to ensure activities and initiatives, such as the waste management that its products comply with the EU directive on the processes implemented, during the induction seminar at restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances the beginning of their employment. Notifications and in electrical and electronic equipment (recast RoHS reminders to the employees are circulated and published directive 2011/65/EU). in the company’s intranet. (1) Data available as of October 31, 2016. (2) From purchased diesel oil for heating combustion and purchased electricity. 18 Anti-corruption » Code of Business Ethics In 2016, Intracom Telecom launched its Code of The Code covers topics like compliance with laws and Business Ethics, applied to all employees and managers regulations, dealing with conflict of interest, proprietary in headquarters and subsidiaries. The Code defines information, dealing with competition, bribery and Intracom Telecom’s position on fundamental legal, ethical anticorruption, political contributions, integrity, record and social matters and the way it operates around the keeping, company property, human rights and labor world. It establishes certain non-negotiable minimum practices, health and safety, environment, leading by standards of behaviour in key areas, which are to be example, compliance and reporting mechanism for any observed when dealing with fellow employees, customers, violations of the code. The Code is complementary to suppliers, partners and shareholders, communities and existing company policies and procedures as well as the governments. It was also communicated to suppliers Employee Handbooks, or equivalent documents, issued and external consultants. by companies within Intracom Telecom Group. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS | DECEMBER 2016 » Employee handbook » Complaint process The Employee Handbook (properly verified by the All employees can raise a complaint, following a process Greek Public authorities) illustrates the policies and which is described in the company’s Employee Handbook employees’ obligations. It underlines that employees are and the Code of Business Ethics. It is the policy of the not allowed to accept payments, gifts, bribes offered for Company not to allow retaliation for reports made in their employment services or obtain privileges or other good faith by employees for misconduct by others. benefits for themselves, or on their relatives’ account. Employee Handbook is available to all employees » Internal audit through the corporate portal. Induction seminars Auditing mechanisms, audit committees (permanent regarding all corporate procedures, among which antiand ad hoc) as well as internal control procedures are in corruption procedures, are organised for new employees place in order to assure that risks are minimized and all at the beginning of their employment. activities are carried out in accordance with the corporate policies. Managers or employees are encouraged to talk » Disciplinary actions to the Internal Audit Director or Company’s management Disciplinary actions are enforced when an employee about observed behaviour, which they believe may be a violates provisions of the Code of Business Ethics and/ violation of the Code of Business Ethics or when in doubt or the Employee Handbook. The disciplinary actions about the best course of action in a particular situation. to employees are imposed by the Management of the Company. In 2016, no disciplinary actions were imposed on employees for corruption cases. Intracom Telecom 19.7 km Markopoulou Ave., Peania, Athens, GR 19002 t: +30 2106671000 | f: +30 2106671001 www.intracom-telecom.com All information contained in this document is subject to change without prior notice. © 2016 Intracom S.A. Telecom Solutions
