The UN Global Compact Initiative Communication on Progress June 2015 to June 2016 Human Right Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Aston Martin supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and has implemented policies which support the protection of such rights and avoidance of human rights abuses where they may inter-relate with Aston Martin’s business activities. For example, the Aston Martin Standards of Corporate Conduct sets out expected standards of conduct and behaviour for employees to adopt in relations with one another and in pursuing Aston Martin’s business interests generally. This covers policies on subjects such as discrimination, harassment as well as conflicts of interest and antibribery. In addition, all Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. The guide expects that our suppliers treat their employees fairly and do not tolerate bullying and harassment or discrimination of workers or others. The company’s standard terms and conditions for the purchase of parts also require suppliers to prohibit child labour in their own business and supply chains and to comply with all laws relevant to their businesses. Implementation All employees of Aston Martin are expected to adhere to these policies. A system has been established to solicit employees’ annual confirmation that they are aware of and adhere to the code of conduct. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide and to supply goods on standard terms and conditions. Failure to do so could result in the termination of business with Aston Martin. Measurement In the past year Aston Martin has not been the subject of any investigations, legal claims or other action relating to human rights. Aston Martin measures production first tier supplier compliance to the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide using a ‘Supplier Performance Rating System’. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 1|Page Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Aston Martin supports the International Labour Organisation Core Conventions. Aston Martin acknowledges every employee’s right to be a member of a trade union and voluntarily recognises the independent trade union ‘Unite’ for collective bargaining and employee representation purposes. Aston Martin has issued policies to all employees and other staff regarding the importance of upholding equal opportunities and the prohibition of discrimination and harassment in the workplace on grounds of gender, race, disability, age, sexual orientation and religion. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. This guide expects that our suppliers do not use child labour or forced labour, are committed to equal opportunities and ensure that employees have the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Implementation All employees of Aston Martin are expected to adhere to anti-discrimination and equal opportunities policies and confirm annually that they are aware of and adhere to these policies. In addition, an employee training programme regarding equal opportunities is being implemented. All Aston Martin employees are able to join a trade union of their choice. The company participates in regular collective bargaining with one recognised Union, ‘Unite’ in the UK and also recognises such union for the purposes of representation of employees in the workplace. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide and to supply goods on standard terms and conditions. Measurement In the past year Aston Martin has not been the subject of any investigations, legal claims or other action relating to these labour principles. Aston Martin measures production first tier supplier compliance to the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide using the ‘Supplier Performance Rating System’. 2|Page Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Aston Martin is committed to on-going reductions in energy and resource consumption in the manufacture and operation of its products as set out in the Aston Martin Environmental Policy 2015. In addition, it is committed to a reduction in its carbon footprint, whilst complying with all relevant legislation and striving to achieve results above and beyond the legal minimum wherever possible. Aston Martin will continue to source and invest in new technologies to improve fuel efficiency and environmental output of its products. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. This policy requires that our suppliers, where possible, are certified to ISO14001:2004; and minimise resource consumption, waste and emissions. Implementation Annual targets are set by Aston Martin and plans are put in place to reduce energy and water consumption as well as waste and solvent emissions from the manufacturing facility. Aston Martin operates and maintains an environmental system in line with ISO14001:2004. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. Measurement Environmental targets are regularly assessed and results reported to the board of Aston Martin. In 2015 Aston Martin reduced waste sent to Landfills by a further 1.4% from 2014; therefore 99.4% of waste in 2015 was either reused, recycled or recovered. In 2014 Aston Martin launched the 15 MY Vanquish and Rapide S with a new 8 Speed Touchtronic III gearbox; this improved CO2 emissions by approximately 10%; and fuel efficiency by 3 miles per gallon. Aston Martin continues to deliver reductions in CO2 for cars sold to its customers. One example is a 33% reduction of CO2 since 2000 in cars exported to the European Union. Furthermore, 85% of Aston Martin vehicles components can be recycled at the end of life. Aston Martin measures production first tier supplier compliance to the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide using the ‘Supplier Performance Rating System’. 3|Page Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Aston Martin recognises the terms of the UK Bribery Act and has issued policies prohibiting employees from participating in any activity amounting to bribery, or permitting a business partner to undertake such activity in Aston Martin’s name or for its benefit. Aston Martin also supports the UN Convention against Corruption. Aston Martin has also issued policies and procedures regarding standards expected of employees in terms of acceptance of gifts and hospitality from third parties. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. This policy confirms that Aston Martin has a zero-tolerance approach to all forms of bribery and corruption and expects that our suppliers adopt the same stance. Implementation All employees of Aston Martin are expected to adhere to these policies; and confirm annually that they are aware of and adhere the code of conduct. All Aston Martin suppliers are expected to comply with the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide. Measurement In the past year Aston Martin has not been the subject of any investigations, legal claims or other action relating to the matters covered by these principles. Aston Martin measures production first tier supplier compliance to the Aston Martin Responsible Procurement Guide using the ‘Supplier Performance Rating System’. 4|Page
