2016 Communication on progress Table of Contents Commitment letter from the SOLYSTIC President and CEO ....................... p.3 Presentation of SOLYSTIC .......................................................................................... p.4 Corporate Social Commitment ................................................................................... p.5 Human rights................................................................................................................ p.6 to 8 Labour ........................................................................................................................... p.9 to 11 Environment ............................................................................................................. p.12 to 14 Anti-corruption ......................................................................................................... p.15 to 17 © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 2 Dear Mr Secretary-General, SOLYSTIC decided to embrace and support the values of the United Nations Global Compact in October 2009. I would like to reiterate our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the area of Human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. I would also like to assure you of my intention to promote these principles both amongst SOLYSTIC’s employees and within our sphere of influence, namely our customers, partners, suppliers and all our stakeholders. We are convinced that respecting the principles of the Global Compact is not just a commitment. It is abiding by a social model based on mutual respect and dialogue with all our stakeholders. It is implementing concrete actions that embody the values we share. It is committing to continuous progress and improvement. The annual communication about our progress has now been firmly embedded in our practices and is an integral part of our ongoing drive for improvement and transparency. As CEO, I have made it my priority to implement this policy on a daily basis and to enlist the involvement of all my staff. I am proud that SOLYSTIC, through its support, is helping to further the initiative launched by the UN. Yours sincerely. October 2016 Pierre IGOU President and CEO © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 3 Presentation of SOLYSTIC SOLYSTIC is a 100% French subsidiary of the American group Northrop Grumman that designs, manufactures, installs and maintains postal and logistics solutions. It operates out of its head office, based near Paris in Bagneux, France, its assembly plant in Bourg-lès-Valence, in the Drôme region (France), and its Belgian subsidiary dedicated to the full maintenance of the postal equipment in this country. In 2015 it recorded a turnover of 106.6 million Euros. The world's leading postal and logistics operators use SOLYSTIC's solutions for their sorting and distribution operations. Its main references are: The French, UK, German and US postal services, plus a strong presence in the Nordic countries. Installed on 5 continents, its solutions enable customers to: adapt their procedures to the new market realities, remain competitive, even increase their profits while continuing to provide a high quality service, improve working conditions and comply with environmental constraints. The SOLYSTIC range includes: • smalland large-sized mail sorting equipment to prepare postal delivery rounds, such as the XMS™ and MARS, • CPS machines and Soly™ mobile robots, for handling packages from e-commerce activities, • information recognition and interpretation systems, for managing databases and sort plans, • a range of services including full maintenance , assistance in managing human and material resources, technical support, and supplying replacement parts. SOLYSTIC's offer is tailored to the specific needs of each customer. The company relies on simulation and modelling tools developed in-house to determine the most appropriate configuration. It also draws on external experts to provide overall operation and management solutions for sorting and logistics centres. SOLYSTIC invests approximately 6% of its turnover in Research & Development. These investments are essential for us to define and design future solutions for postal and logistics operators. > Industrial site > CPS > SolyTM © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 4 Corporate Social Commitment SOLYSTIC, global leader in design and implementation of solutions for different postal operators, provides its development by innovation and listening to its customers. SOLYSTIC, aware of the economic and social issues, registers its strategy and governance into a Corporate Social Responsibility – Sustainable Development approach, and associates all its stakeholders: workforce, customers, partners, suppliers, institutions, residents… This type of governance, based on respect, human rights, transparency, responsibility, teamwork, ethical behavior, compliance with legal requirements and the support of our employees to shared values, leads us to commit to: Respect the interest of the customers and end-users • By offering efficient and quality products and services, economically competitive and able to meet customers’ requirements, relying especially on the ISO 9001 standard certification • By anticipating, from the design, materials and technologies that limit the risks for environment, health and safety, and consume less energy throughout the product life cycle Be a responsible employer • By taking measures to prevent health and safety risks while improving working conditions • By acting in respect for diversity, equality of opportunity and contributing to fight against all forms of discrimination • By managing skills in a proactive and sustainable way • By a will of basing and sustaining our practices and social relations in trust, respect, listening and dialogue Adopt a sustainable procurement strategy • Incorporating sustainable development criteria in our procurement practices, by involving our suppliers • Promoting in geographical regions in which we operate our business activities • Focusing, in our own activities, on supplies developed in the respect of the environment Limit the impact of our business on the environment • By taking preventive actions against all forms of pollutions, reducing waste, among others, and relying on the ISO 14001 standard certification • Contributing to the fight against climate change Apply to ethical principles • By stating the rules of programs management and main principles of the parent company • Practice the Corporate Social Responsibility • By joining in 2009 the United Nations Global Compact To carry out these commitments, we: • Transmit information to all the managers • Rely on compliance with legal, regulatory or other requirements • Provide the necessary and sufficient means • Inform, consult and involve our employees and their representatives, to whom we ask to collaborate and actively participate in this approach • Set up, monitor and review our targets in a continuous improvement approach • Be sure the efficiency of our management system. Pierre IGOU President and CEO January 7th, 2015 © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 5 Human Rights PRINCIPES PRINCIPLES Les entreprises sont invitées Businesses should à 1 Promouvoir et respecter 1 Support la protection and respect du droit of the protection international relatif internationally proclaimed de l’homme aux droitsHuman Rights 2 Veiller 2à -ce Make leursthat quesure propres they are compagnies not complicit rendent ne inseHuman abusesde violations des complices Rights Droits de l’Homme OUR COMMITMENTS, OUR POLICY SOLYSTIC respects Human Rights and complies with French legislation, especially the Constitution of 4 October 1958, which is a cornerstone of the Fifth Republic currently in force. The preamble of this Constitution includes the full 1789 Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. Generally speaking, SOLYSTIC abides by the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of December 1948. SOLYSTIC requires its suppliers and subcontractors to respect Human Rights through its responsible purchasing policy. SOLYSTIC advocates diversity, equal opportunities and employability and helps to fight against all forms of discrimination. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 6 2016 good practice: WELCOMING TRAINEES AND INTERNS: AN OPPORTUNITY TO BOOST DIVERSITY AND DEVELOPMENT ► Context, goals Through its 'Generation Contract' signed in 2013, SOLYSTIC is committed to welcome trainees and interns on shortand long-term placements promoting a diversity of ages, cultures, skills and expertise. This commitment fully reflects its wish to develop skills and employability in a sustainable way. In parallel, this integration initiative meets multiple strategic priorities for the company: renewing the age pyramid through pre-employment (average age 46 in 2016 vs. 41.5 in metallurgy and 40 for the entire French working population); technical innovation through 'reverse mentoring'; stronger supervision/management for the managers; teamwork/cross-functional communications in all SOLYSTIC's department. This commitment, which might be considered a purely 'HR' initiative, is in fact a full-scale corporate plan. Deeply rooted in the company its aims, through this welcome for trainees and interns, are to improve recruitment; renew skills; organise the transmission of knowledge, and encourage attentiveness and dialogue between generations; bring 'new blood' and change our working habits; encourage technical innovation; and boost the diversity of ideas and cultures. ► Approach, implementation We present some actual examples carried out in the framework of this overall approach: Partnerships forged with various schools and research centres; Setting up a committee to monitor Final Year Projects; Implementing concrete actions for the sustainable integration of trainees and interns. Partnerships have been forged with establishments whose technical skills and geographic proximity to our employment areas form an operational resource for SOLYSTIC (ESISAR at Valence, INPG at Grenoble, Centrale-SUPELEC at Paris, CRIIF at Paris and Lyon, etc). The objective is to develop a different image of SOLYSTIC, promote an attractiveness little known within and outside the company, and enable our company to benefit from the best skills and technological resources. By taking part in forums at schools, our technicians and engineers promote their activities. Sharing their experience with tutors from other companies in related, or very different, sectors are means to increase the professionalism of their management, and to become aware of and promote technical expertise within and outside the company. In addition, SOLYSTIC became a member of the 'Club PME de Centrale Paris', which was an opportunity to join a network of innovative entrepreneurs and promote subjects for internships to students, vectors and acknowledgement of a performance orientation. Similarly, these discussions are the opportunity for students to discover SOLYSTIC and its commitment to the diversity of expertise and the sustainable development of skills. A committee to monitor Final Year Projects has been set up to support the engineering student trainees and encourage discussions between the various departments; by developing synergies and the use of existing skills in the company; by providing responses and additional information for the problems encountered by the trainees; and by ensuring that there is no deviation from the initial objectives. Meetings are arranged between HR, the student, their tutor and the departments that can contribute to the success of their project within SOLYSTIC. In this way we act as 'facilitator' and accelerator of success, and support the idea that internships and work-study placements are part of a long-term project for both the student and the company. Concrete actions have therefore been implemented to boost the integration of trainees and interns, in the same way as employees. For example: the integration day with a visit to the assembly plant in Bourg-lès-Valence; a meeting with SOLYSTIC's CEO and the main players; presentation of © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 7 an Industrial Mail Platform of the French postal service to demonstrate the customer service dimension; in 2015 there was a visit to the Post‘Expo Show, the postal and logistics show, in Paris in which SOLYSTIC participated, to find out about the competition and their technological innovations. To increase SOLYSTIC's attractiveness and promote our employer brand amongst the many talents and schools, another important measure has been membership to the 'Job Teaser' job board site. Aimed at students and young graduates (4/5 years of higher education), this space is a new, innovative shop-window to promote jobs at SOLYSTIC through simple, immediate computer tools (mobile phone alerts for students who have subscribed). From February 2016 – when we joined the site – to early September, our page had 1,629 unique views and 134 applications were sent, an average of 17 for each internship or work-study offer published. ► Results achieved In September 2015, three work-study students joined us (one at Bagneux and two at Bourg-lèsValence). A Test Technician was also recruited on a permanent contract, while continuing to study part-time for a 3-year Engineering Diploma course. Three work-study contracts from previous years were continued. This brings the number of current work-study contracts at SOLYSTIC to six for the 2015-2016 school year, and to five for the 2016-2017 school year. In 2016, nearly forty trainees and interns of all levels were welcomed in our two establishments: shortterm (exploratory visits to the company, 1 month in the case of Bac Pro/BTS students, or so-called 'operator' internships for 1st year Engineering students), mediumto long-term (4 to 6 months for students in the 2nd and 4th years of the Engineering cycle, or Masters students), through to long-term (6-month and full-year internships for students in the final year of the Engineering cycle). Two other operational actions are to be noted as contributing to the integration of trainees and interns and boosting diversity within SOLYSTIC: 1Taking part in a televised round-table organised by OPCALIA in March 2016 on sustainable integration into companies. 2The successful transfer of an intern, a 3rd year Engineering School student, to the Northrop Grumman Group's German subsidiary (LITEF) for 6 months. This boosted our international dimension and our wish for diversity, and strengthened our commitment to the long-term development of our interns within the Group. To measure the initial results of this policy of welcoming trainees and interns, SOLYSTIC took part in the 'Happy Trainees' study in September 2016. Of the 15 trainees and interns selected based on the dates of their internship or work-study placement, 89% would recommend SOLYSTIC as a great company for an internship or work-study placement. This study contributed to enhancing SOLYSTIC's employer brand, increasing our attractiveness, and confirming our commitment to the diversity and long-term development of our trainees and interns. >SOLYSTIC's Job Teaser page For more information, contact marie-pierre.homberg@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 8 Labour PRINCIPLES Businesses should: 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labour 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation OUR COMMITMENTS, OUR POLICY SOLYSTIC complies with French labour law in particular the legislations governing freedom of association and the rights to bargain collectively. SOLYSTIC supports the efforts to eliminate all forms of forced or mandatory labour and to effectively abolish child labour. SOLYSTIC applies a series of measures for proactive and sustainable management of employee skills and thereby promote their employability. SOLYSTIC, as a socially responsible employer, advocates diversity and equal opportunity and helps to combat all forms of discrimination. SOLYSTIC takes all necessary steps to prevent health and safety risks and improve working conditions. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 9 2016 good practice: EXPERIMENTING WITH TELECOMMUTING, A DIFFERENT WAY OF WORKING ► Context, goals Deliberations about the Quality of Life in the Workplace and a desire to optimize the efficiency of its employees through a good work life/private life balance led SOLYSTIC in June 2015 to introduce a oneyear trial of an alternative method of working telecommuting. This trial responded to many requests from employees in our two establishments for whom the length of their commute had become a large problem (in the Paris region, employees faced by over 3 hours commuting every day; elsewhere, employees whose homes were sometimes more than 50 km from their place of work). It would also maximize the use of new information technology and provide support for managers in this new method of remote management. ► Approach, implementation A preparatory programme of deliberations was crucial to properly understand the expectations and fears of all parties (employees and company). A work group was set up, comprising male and female employees covering a broad spectrum of ages, lengths of service, professional experiences, etc. These initial discussions highlighted obstacles mentioned by the employees themselves: the fear of weakening ties with the company, of being 'unable' to work outside a professional environment, and the feeling that work colleagues and the family sphere would not understand. Based on these very varied findings, SOLYSTIC's Management initiated negotiations for an agreement for a one-year trial. Five work meetings allowed very open discussions to be held with the social partners concerning each party's expectations, and formalized a framework covering the ins and outs of an organization such as this. This trial agreement was unanimously signed by all social partners in June 2015. It was agreed that certain types of job would in fact be excluded from the programme since they were deemed impossible to carry out at home; and that the managers would be the sole persons to approve a request for telecommuting, based upon an assessment of their department's ability to absorb this physical absence, and of the level of autonomy and confidence needed for the employee to perform their duties in this method of working. Some of the elements that made it possible for all parties to reach a consensus were: Limiting the number of telecommuting days worked in a week, to maintain a social link with the company; The possibility of telecommuting on an exceptional basis, to deal with unforeseeable events: transport problems, etc.; The need to have at least one year's length of service, so as to have good knowledge of the company's working methods and not feel isolated; The existence of periods for adaptation and reversibility, formalizing the simple option of 'switching back' if either of the two parties was not satisfied; Managers would be able to cancel a telecommuting day if there was a proven work-related priority (customer request, important meeting, etc.); Increased safety/security for facilities, with delivery of an insurance certificate; Training given by an outside organization to all telecommuting employees and their managers, so that they could all adapt to this new method of working. This time, it was the managers who were more apprehensive about this programme, and they expressed a need for support in setting the targets and monitoring them. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 10 ► Results achieved Of the 46 individual requests received i.e. over 10% of the company's total workforce 35 were approved, including 12 from employees volunteering to telecommute on an exceptional basis. All departments and services were represented, including a very broad range of both jobs (both functional and operational) and levels in the hierarchy, since managers also wanted to try this method of working. Nine months after it was implemented, the trial was the subject of a questionnaire by an outside organization. This was sent to the telecommuters, their work colleagues and managers. This survey had a very high participation rate: 77% for the telecommuters, 55% for their colleagues, and 80% for their managers. The general satisfaction with telecommuting was confirmed, with an overall average of 90% for all responses, broken down as follows: 100% for the telecommuters, 83% for their colleagues, and 92% for their Managers (see the graph below). The main findings from this survey were: a positive impact on performance, with 100% of managers considering that the individual performance and collective performance of their employees/teams were the same or better; benefits for the quality of life in the workplace were mentioned by 95% of the telecommuters; one portion of the employees thought the remote working and communications tools could be improved; 25% of telecommuters requested an increased frequency and/or greater flexibility; very high level of satisfaction among the managers and telecommuters for the support in implementing telecommuting. In parallel with this survey, the Human Resources Department also consulted the Executive Committee, although some members might not have experience in this matter, as they had no telecommuting employees reporting directly to them. Here again, the result was very positive overall, even if it seemed more difficult to measure effectiveness, and everyone agreed that better use of new technology was a key issue in the success of this trial, and could therefore contribute to SOLYSTIC's incorporation of digital technology. They also emphasized the need for an overall change in mental attitudes by both managers and employees. The former needed to change their way of defining goals and supervision, and the latter needed to change the 'visibility' of their contribution when not physically present in the company's premises. These results were communicated to all the employees, and are now a basis for work and improvement, confirmation that this method of working is a social advance for SOLYSTIC. SOLYSTIC is now in negotiations for an open-ended telecommuting agreement, building on the success of this one-year trial and as part of a renewed commitment to contribute to its employees' well-being by optimizing their efficiency in a work group and a reinforced identity. Telecommuting is also an additional advantage, increasing the company's attractiveness for future new recruits… For more information, contact marie-pierre.homberg@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 11 Environment PRINCIPLES Business should: 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies PRINCIPES Les entreprises sont invitées à OUR laCOMMITMENTS, 3 Respecter liberté d’association et àOUR POLICY reconnaître le droit de négociation collective 4 Soutenir l’élimination de toute forme de travail forcé ou obligatoire SOLYSTIC 5 Soutenir helps l’abolition to combat effective global des du travail warming enfants by limiting its greenhouse gas emissions and saving energy in the operation of its facilities, employee 6 Agir pour l’élimination de toute discrimination en matière business d’emploi et and travel goods transport. de profession SOLYSTIC takes step to prevent all forms of pollution by reducing waste production, among other actions. SOLYSTIC minimises the environmental impacts of its products and services through the use, from the design stage, of clean, innovative and energy-efficient technologies. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 12 2016 GOOD PRACTICE: IDENTIFYING NEW WAYS TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ► Context, goals Since 2005, SOLYSTIC has wanted to measure its greenhouse gas emissions. This initial initiative was carried out with one of its customers to estimate the carbon footprint of one of its products. Although not subject to regulations in this respect, in 2010 SOLYSTIC voluntarily undertook a comprehensive assessment of its greenhouse gas emissions. This inventory used the Bilan Carbone® method and system developed in France by the French Agency for the Environment and Energy Management (ADEME: Agence de l'environnement et de la maîtrise de l'energie). This programme, initiated just after the first ISO 14001 certification in 2007, has contributed to enhancing the analysis of the various environmental aspects and to developing a complete panoply of best practice. The latest assessment measured the effectiveness of the actions carried out since 2010, and made it possible to identify new ways to reduce emissions. ► Approach, implementation Carrying out a global Bilan Carbone® assessment demonstrates SOLYSTIC's desire can be envisaged within the company, and with its stakeholders. The approach consisted of drawing up the most detailed map possible for emissions during 2015. All potential sources of emissions were identified: • upstream from the production process: incoming materials, emissions from generating and transporting electricity etc. • downstream: emissions from the use of products throughout their life cycle until disposal, delivery, Different scopes of Bilan Carbone® installation of the product, etc. This comprehensive approach led to an action plan being drawn up to benefit: SOLYSTIC's customers, by reducing their emissions due to electrical consumption by installed machines, or by optimising their disposal, the employees, by recommending modes of commuting that were less expensive and more environmentally-friendly, the suppliers, by optimising packaging management or by favouring local players. This new assessment also enabled a more precise identification of in-house emissions or direct emission sources otherwise consolidated at the level of the Northrop Grumman Group. The data is scattered among a number of services: reception, shipping, general, purchasing, design office, accounting, etc. Collection takes time and resources, but this is essential. It lets us ask the right questions, even optimise processes. The precision of this data and the choice made from among the different options proposed by the method must always provide the best balance between the time required to obtain the data and the optimum level of detail for detecting ways to reduce emissions. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 13 ► Results achieved 2010-2015 comparison: focus on some elements corresponding to the 2010 action plan New ways to reduce emissions and consumption: Replace the industrial site's gas boiler with a more efficient device, Boost our programme aimed at reducing the environmental impact of our products throughout their life cycle, Analyse the possibility of increasing the use of recycled materials for the machined parts, Offer our customers optimised availability of replacement parts by bringing storage locations closer, Encourage the use of bikes for commuting (mileage allowances), Offer employees the option of telecommuting. For more information, contact Jean-pierre.baiardi@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 14 Anti-corruption PRINCIPLES Businesses should 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery OUR COMMITMENTS, OUR POLICY SOLYSTIC, like all other subsidiaries of the Northrop Grumman group, abides by the Ethics programme transmitted by its parent company. Given that it is a member of an American group that is aware of business integrity and ethical issues, SOLYSTIC has been a forerunner in the drafting of an ethical policy. The key components of the Ethics programme include: • An Ethics officer at each site, • A regularly updated Ethics charter, • An OpenLine, • Annual training provided to each employee. The organisation set up by SOLYSTIC allows employees to receive guidance, get answers to their questions and express their concerns. The annual training covers sensitive issues such as: • harassment and intimidation at the work place, • protection of personal data, • international trade rules, • information security, • corruption. It encourages staff to display the highest level of integrity and accountability in their behaviour. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 15 2016 good practice: APPLYING ETHICAL PRINCIPLES IN THE CONDUCT OF BUSINESS ► Context, goals SOLYSTIC applies the group's Ethics Charter. In particular, this sets the principles and standards of business behaviour serving as a guide and reference for all SOLYSTIC employees in carrying out their assignments. Each year, SOLYSTIC alerts all its employees to the importance of developing a solid ethical foundation and working with the utmost integrity. Each year, it also gives those employees having direct contact with customers or suppliers a questionnaire designed to: identify and prevent any situation involving, or likely to involve, a conflict of interests, take appropriate action to deal with potential conflicts of interests before they turn into a situation that does not comply with the Ethics Rules. ► Approach, implementation Through its adoption of the Northrop Grumman group's Charter, SOLYSTIC is committed to apply rules aimed at the utmost integrity in their business behaviour, whether with regard to its customers or with regard to its suppliers. Each year, SOLYSTIC makes its employees aware of the need to understand and comply with these rules, and extends this commitment to them through a questionnaire aimed at preventing any potential risk of a conflict of interest. Relationships with our customers: We expect them to select our products because of service quality and price. We conduct our business in a sincere, open way, and we do not seek to unduly influence a decision. Any gift, or offer of a gift, to them that might be a bribe or kickback is forbidden. Relationships with our suppliers and subcontractors: We aim to maintain an honest, objective and efficient procurement procedure in compliance with our procedures. Our employees are committed to not ask for or accept any gift, payment or consideration from our suppliers. Any significant financial interest that an employee holds in a supplier, or in a company seeking to become one, must be reported. Preventing all potential conflicts of interest: Definition extract from the charter: A conflict of interest is a situation in which an employee is influenced, or is seen as being influenced, by his or her personal interests; ie any conflict between the private interests of an employee and his or her duties, actions or loyalty with regard to the company. There is a conflict of interest when the parties concerned receive or grant an unjust favourable advantage or preferential treatment in order to obtain a personal profit from it. © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 16 The following have been identified and prioritised: employees having a direct relationship with SOLYSTIC's customers or suppliers, namely members of the Sales and Purchasing Departments, and also, for example, the Programme Department or Finance Department. This concerns any person who has to be in contact with the customers or suppliers, in the context of responses to requests for proposals, sales prospection, purchasing negotiations, monitoring accounts, or acceptance of equipment, etc. Then each of these employees potentially concerned receives: A letter from the CEO explaining the notion of conflict of interests; it mentions several situations in which an employee's personal, financial or other interests conflict with SOLYSTIC's, A form concerning a personal undertaking to comply with the standards of business behaviour. Seven situations that may lead to a conflict of interests are presented, and the employee must reply yes or no if he or she is concerned: 1. He or she is an employee, representative or director of an entity that has or seeks to have a business relationship with SOLYSTIC. 2. He or she has a significant financial interest in an entity having, or wishing to have, a business relationship with SOLYSTIC. 3. He or she receives a direct or indirect advantage (present, voyage, invitation, bonus, remuneration, etc.), in the context of a business relationship or potential business relationship. 4. He or she has a debtor/creditor relationship with a business relation. 5. He or she has revealed information belonging to the Company to unauthorised persons, or has used information belonging to the Company to promote his or her own economic activities or personal interest. 6. He or she has wrongfully received or has revealed confidential information about requests for proposals and bids, confidential information or information related to the selection of candidates belonging to a competitor of SOLYSTIC. 7. He or she has any other interest or is a stakeholder in any type of agreement that could lead to the principles or standards of business behaviour being breached, or which might lead to a conflict of interest, whether real or perceived as such. At the end of the form, the employee declares that he or she has understood his or her responsibilities, and undertakes to apply the rules governing business behaviour. If the response to any of these situations is 'yes', the document has to be signed by the employer's line manager. The document is then analysed by the ethics officer to determine whether a conflict of interest actually exists and, if so, how to deal with it. ► Results achieved All employees have been invited to an awareness-raising session on compliance with the standards of business behaviour. Out of a workforce of approximately 500 people, 120 employees were contacted, in the context of the action to raise awareness of and identify potential conflicts of interest. That is 24% of the workforce. No potential conflict of interest was detected. For more information, contact richard.nachman@solystic.com © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 17 WE ARE CONVINCED THAT RESPECTING THE PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT IS NOT JUST A COMMITMENT, IT IS ABIDING BY A SOCIAL MODEL BASED ON PRINCIPES MUTUAL Les entreprises RESPECT sont invitées ANDà DIALOGUE WITH ALL OUR 1 Promouvoir et respecter la protection du droit international relatif aux droits de l’homme STAKEHOLDERS, 2 Veiller à ce que leurs propres compagnies ne se rendent complices de violations des Droits de l’Homme IT IS IMPLEMENTING CONCRETE ACTIONS THAT REPRESENT THE VALUE THAT WE SHARE, IT IS COMMITTING TO CONTINUOUS PROGRESS AND IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVE. HEAD OFFICE SECONDARY ESTABLISHMENT 152/160 avenue Aristide Briand 25, rue de Chony CS 80013 BP 102 26501 92227 Bagneux CEDEX Bourg-lès-Valence CEDEX France France For more information, contact Tel. +33 (0)1 49 08 41 00 Tel. +33 (0)4 75 40 71 00 jean-pierre.baiardi@solystic.com Fax +33 (0)1 45 36 21 70 Fax +33 (0)4 75 40 71 30 www.solystic.com SOLYSTIC • Simplified Limited Company with a share capital of EUR 28,445,600 • Registered with the Trade Register of Nanterre under number B 393 502 463 • SIRET (business registration number) 393 502 463 00044 • VAT FR 38 393 502 463 • NAF code 3320C © SOLYSTIC SAS 2016 Global Compactl Communication on progress 2016 18
