Sustainability Report 2015 Contents A transformational year Foreword by the CEO 2 Our company 4 About the report 6 Our corporate responsibility approach 8 » First oil produced from the Corporate governance 10 non-operated Bøyla field in Risk management 12 Norway Compliance, anti-corruption and whistleblowing 14 » First oil produced from the Our people 16 Bertam field in Malaysia Health and safety 20 Safe operations 24 » First oil produced from the Environment 26 Edvard Grieg field in Norway Climate change 30 Human rights 32 » First Group wide Corporate Stakeholders 33 Responsibility e-learning Sustainable investments 34 Sustainability data 38 » First stand-alone GRI index 42 Sustainability Report Tell us what you think 45 Our Global Compact Our vision is to provide Commitment society with energy Lundin Petroleum has been a participant of the United Nations that is being developed Global Compact since 2010. We support the 10 Principles on human rights, labour standards, in a responsible and environment and anti-corruption and participate efficient way in the UN Global Compact Nordic Network. We communicate on a yearly basis on our progress in implementing the 10 Principles. Responsible business conduct at Lundin Petroleum aims to create This 2015 Sustainability Report also constitutes social, environmental as well as our Communication on Progress to the UN Global economic value for all stakeholders. Compact. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Lundin Petroleum’s 2015 Sustainability Report is the ﬁrst report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. 2015 Revenue Safe operations $ MUSD 569.3 1.76 lost time operating revenue incident rate Cash flow Oil spills $ MUSD 699.6 0 recordable operating cash flow oil spill Expenditure Workforce $ MUSD 1,443.3 589 employees investments worldwide Contribution to society Diversity $ TUSD 818.5 38% of women on donations Board of Directors Community benefit Training 1,350 people were 87% of employees provided with access to completed the e-learning renewable energy through course on Corporate Lundin Foundation projects Responsibility Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 1 Foreword by the CEO I am very pleased to present Lundin Petroleum’s 2015 We view the protection of the health and safety of people Sustainability Report. This is the ﬁrst time that we report and of the environment as top priorities, and are aware of our Corporate Responsibility performance according to an our responsibilities regarding such issues as human rights, international sustainability standard. labour standards and anti-corruption. I take this opportunity to reafﬁrm our commitment to the Global Compact and its 10 Corporate Responsibility is of course not new at Lundin Principles on human rights, labour standards, environment Petroleum, it is an integral part of our business strategy. and anti-corruption. Being part of the Global Compact has Since the Company was created we have been guided by the helped us progress on these issues, also through participation values and principles expressed in our Code of Conduct and in the Nordic Network, which is a good forum to exchange have reported on our ethical performance in the Corporate and learn about improving ethical performance on an Responsibility section of our Annual Report. ongoing basis. This report therefore also constitutes our Communication on Progress to the United Nations’ Global This year, however, has been a special year for Lundin Compact. Petroleum which has put three new ﬁelds in production and plays an important part in the most signiﬁcant oil ﬁeld Some believe there is a trade-off between ethical and development in Norway. All this was achieved and managed in commercial considerations. We do not. We believe that doing spite of the low oil price environment. In this transformational things the right way is the best way of ensuring our success year, we also innovate in our sustainability reporting based on over time. Working in Norway, a country with high HSE the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidance. standards, has conﬁrmed that the upfront costs of ensuring that we have competent people and the right processes and We have witnessed a growing interest on the part of our systems is good business practice. stakeholders, be they shareholders, staff, institutional lenders, governments, NGOs and the media, who want to understand how we integrate these values and principles throughout our operations and value chain. While environmental, social and governance (ESG) research institutions rate us positively in comparison to our peers – MSCI has given us an AA rating in 2015 – we believe that enhanced reporting will contribute to a better understanding of how we assess and manage our sustainability risks and opportunities. In this context we would like to thank our stakeholders for their feedback which has helped us to continuously improve our ESG performance and reporting. 2 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 I would like to conclude by saying that our vision back in 2001 was to make a positive contribution to society. We feel we are doing so, not only by providing a source of energy in an efﬁcient and responsible way – protecting people and the environment – but also by providing employment and tax revenues in the countries where we work and by supporting good causes through our partnership with the Lundin Foundation. But as I always say, there is always room for improvement, so together with my colleagues, we will continue to strive for excellence. Yours Sincerely, Alex Schneiter President and CEO Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 3 Our Company Finding and developing Norway oil and gas resources Stockholm Lundin Petroleum (the ‘Company’ or the ‘Group’) has exploration and production assets focused upon two core areas, Norway and Malaysia, as well as assets in France, the Netherlands Geneva Russia Netherlands and Russia, and ofﬁces in Stockholm and Geneva. France Lundin Petroleum maintains an exploration focus seeking to generate sustainable value from exploration to production. Our vision is to grow a proﬁtable upstream exploration and production company, focused on core areas in a safe and environmentally responsible manner for the long-term beneﬁt of our shareholders and society. Lundin Petroleum is pursuing the following strategy: · Proactively investing in exploration to organically grow its reserve base. Lundin Petroleum has an inventory of drillable prospects with large upside potential and continues to actively pursue new exploration acreage in core areas. · Growing its existing asset base with a proactive subsurface strategy to enhance ultimate hydrocarbon recovery. · Acquiring new hydrocarbon reserves, resources and exploration acreage where opportunities exist to enhance value. Lundin Petroleum is responsible towards: · shareholders, to realise and sustain a good return on investment and a continuing growth of its asset base. · employees, to provide a safe and rewarding working environment. Reserves end 2015 · host countries, owners of the resources, to ﬁnd and produce 685.3 MMboe net oil and gas professionally, efﬁciently and responsibly. Malaysia, 10.7 · local communities, to contribute to local development Continental Europe, 21.0 and sustain the well-being of local communities. Norway – Other, 37.5 · society, to contribute to wealth generation while Edvard Grieg 102.9 minimising the impact of our activities on the environment. Johan Sverdrup 513.2 NORWAY 95% 4 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Exploration Lundin Petroleum focuses on building core exploration areas in speciﬁc countries and assembles integrated teams of geoscientists and technical experts who have a creative and visionary approach to oil and gas exploration. This has proven very successful and in 2015, Lundin Petroleum drilled 14 exploration wells, resulting in exploration success on the Utsira High with the Luno II North and Rolvsnes discoveries. Malaysia Development Following exploration and appraisal, the strategy is to convert discoveries into reserves and production. After a development plan has been approved, construction of facilities can start, to which wells and infrastructure are connected so that production can begin. In 2015, Lundin Petroleum constructed oil and gas production facilities in Norway and Malaysia, of which completion of the Edvard Grieg platform in the Norwegian North Sea marks a major milestone for the Company. Production performance 2015 32,300 boepd net Production South East Asia (1) 7,100 The production phase is deﬁned as everything Continental Europe from extraction and processing to delivering the 4,500 oil or gas for sale. Lundin Petroleum signiﬁcantly increased its production in 2015 due to three new ﬁelds coming on stream. This marks the 20,700 NORWAY beginning of a transformational increase of Lundin Petroleum’s production levels going forward. 64% (1) Includes Indonesia divested assets Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 5 About the Report Lundin Petroleum’s first Sustainability Report in accordance with GRI G4 The objective of this Sustainability Report is to give our Reporting on material issues stakeholders better insight into how we conduct our activities Issues that are material are those that have the greatest by disclosing our management approach and providing potential to impact our responsible business strategy and are relevant qualitative and quantitative data. the most relevant to our stakeholders. Understanding and prioritising these issues enables us to strenghten our strategy. The topics covered are those which, through consultations The materiality, which deﬁnes the content of a sustainability with our stakeholders, were determined to be most report, varies from company to company and depends on the relevant and material to our Company. They cover our type of activities, geographical location and the sustainability Corporate Responsibility approach, governance structure, context in which a company operates. The issues deﬁned risk management and compliance processes. We also share as material in this report are therefore speciﬁc to Lundin information on our relations with our employees, contractors Petroleum. and stakeholders and the importance we attribute to ensuring everyone’s rights are respected. The report describes how Defining the report content Lundin Petroleum puts into practice its commitment to The GRI G4 Guidelines require a rigorous process to determine minimise environmental footprint through climate change and materiality, including the following three step process: biodiversity initiatives, and how, via projects funded through 1. Identification: Issues relevant to Lundin Petroleum, its the Lundin Foundation, we aim to have an overall positive stakeholders and the sustainability context in which the impact on society. Company operates were identiﬁed by consulting various sources, such as the Company’s Corporate Responsibility This is Lundin Petroleum’s ﬁrst sustainability report which policies and guidelines, stakeholder engagement, meets the requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines’ core level, publications, media reviews, peer reports, sustainability the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement and the UN Global initiatives and ESG assessment reports. A total of 63 issues Compact. The report focusses on issues that are determined were identiﬁed as potentially relevant for inclusion in the as material to Lundin Petroleum and its stakeholders, as well report. as those deemed to be relevant in terms of potential risks and impacts. 2. Prioritisation: Stakeholder consultations were held to determine the issues deemed most relevant, given the type of activities, geographical presence and particular stakeholder interests. A survey was conducted among internal and external stakeholders to assess the relevance Lundin Petroleum’s of previously identiﬁed issues and various external GRI G4 Process stakeholders, such as academics, banks, contractors, governmental agencies, industry groups, institutional investors and non-governmental organisations, were invited to participate in the survey. Internal stakeholders included management and key functions in operations. w Each issue was ranked according to the relevance to the ie Re stakeholder, taking into account its applicability to Lundin v Petroleum or to the industry. Identification 3. Validation: Once the survey data was aggregated and analysed, the results were presented for discussion 3 1 and validation to the management during a workshop facilitated by a third party GRI expert. Management decided on the focus for strategy and reporting by Validation validating 17 material issues. The materiality matrix 2 Prioritisation which resulted from the process (see page 7) is a graphical representation of issues relevant to business success (horizontal axis) and to the Company’s stakeholders (vertical axis). In the future, material issues will be reviewed based on this three step process and the relevance of introducing new issues will be assessed in the event of a change of operational context. 6 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Lundin Petroleum’s Materiality Matrix Materiality High Prevention The matrix represents in broader of Major categories the following 17 Profitability Accidents material aspects: Governance, of Operations Risk Management 1. Prevention of major accidents & Compliance Anti-Corruption 2. Emergency preparedness & Transparency 3. Asset integrity & process safety 4. Economic performance & Importance to stakeholders Climate Change Health & Safety profitability of operations 5. Anti-corruption & anti-fraud Contractors 6. Transparency 7. Occupational health & safety Environmental 8. Corporate governance Impact 9. Legal compliance Equal Opportunity 10. Risk management 11. Emissions to air Communities 12. Unplanned discharges to sea or land 13. Planned discharges and disposals 14. Site closure & decommissioning 15. Contractor management & performance 16. Equal opportunity Influence on business success 17. Communities Low High Information in this report The scope of reporting was determined by setting the boundaries and selecting indicators for the material issues. Boundaries are set in relation to the impact of material issues and where these impacts occur, as they may vary from one operational environment to another. Offshore activities with no immediate surrounding communities, such as our operations in Malaysia and Norway, differ from our onshore operations in France. Likewise, there is a distinction between operated assets, where the Company has operational control, and non-operated assets, where the Company has oversight but no direct management control. In line with industry practice, we report on sustainability data for those assets where Lundin Petroleum is the operator, that is where the Company is responsible for managing the operations. · Economic performance data includes all assets and is reported in the Annual Report. · HSE performance data is provided for all entities that are under Lundin Petroleum’s operational control. We report on health and safety incidents for employees and contractors working on our behalf in our operated assets. Environmental data covers all Lundin Petroleum operated assets. i The GRI Index can be found on pages 42–43. · People performance data relates to employees in our direct employment. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 7 Our Corporate Responsibility Approach “I am pleased to report that during 2015 we continued to improve our HSE performance and reinforced the commitment to responsible business conduct of our Board, management and staff” Christine Batruch Vice President Corporate Responsibility Responsible conduct Continuous improvement Lundin Petroleum is committed to ensuring its operations are Lundin Petroleum expects everyone working for, or on behalf conducted in a responsible manner, which ultimately secures of, the Company to continuously improve the way operations social, environmental as well as economic beneﬁts for all our are carried out. stakeholders. The safety of our people and the protection of the environment form an integral part of Lundin Petroleum’s In 2015, Lundin Petroleum focused on two speciﬁc areas strategic decisions and operating activities. of improvement, raising employee awareness on Corporate Responsibility issues and promoting good standards of Managing effectively corporate citizenship among contractors. Lundin Petroleum’s commitment to responsible conduct is set out in our Code of Conduct and in speciﬁcally tailored Our employees underwent an e-learning course on Corporate Group policies, procedures, guidelines and management Responsibility (see page 9). systems. These documents establish the requirement for all our countries of operations to integrate Corporate Responsibility Our contractors sign our Contractor Declaration, which details into their activities for the health, safety and security of all how third parties working on our behalf are required to abide stakeholders as well as for the protection of the environment. by the same ethical principles as Lundin Petroleum. The Contractor Declaration is also a means to engage further with The implementation of these commitments throughout contractors on their sustainability performance, demonstrating the organisation is assessed through annual Corporate our interest to contribute to their continuous improvement Responsibility management system reviews conducted in (see page 23). countries of operations, covering compliance with our Code of Conduct as well as with the Company’s policies and 2016 Goals guidelines on anti-corruption, human rights, labour standards, · Corporate Responsibility: all new employees to attend environment and stakeholder engagement. A separate e-learning course management system audit is conducted annually for health, safety and the environment. · Health, Safety and Environment: zero harm to people and the environment The reviews and audits have become a valuable tool to assess · Contractor Management: engage actively with contractors the level of integration of Corporate Responsibility principles on corporate responsibility and health, safety and in the Group’s operations. They also provide an opportunity environmental issues to engage in discussions on corporate responsibility issues at different levels of the organisation; they stimulate reﬂections · Stakeholders: pro-active engagement on issues of relevance given the operational contexts and contractual arrangements, and they provide an opportunity to share best practice across the Group. Lundin Petroleum’s Corporate Responsibility Timeline Code of Conduct Health and Safety Human Rights Community Relations Sustainable Investment Whistleblowing Policy Primer Policy Program Statement Environmental HSE Management Corporate Donation Climate Change CDP Policy System Policy Statement (Green Book) 200120022003200420052006 20072008 8 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 E-learning course on Corporate Responsibility During 2015, the ﬁrst e-learning course on Corporate Responsibility was progressively introduced in Lundin The Sustainable Development Petroleum’s countries of operations; end of year it had been rolled out Norway, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Goals Sweden. The members of the Board of Directors also completed The United Nations General Assembly the course, reﬂecting their view of Corporate Responsibility as adopted the Sustainable Development being key to the success of the Company. Goals (SDGs) in September 2015, following the expiration of the A total of 87 percent of all Lundin Petroleum employees Millennium Development Goals completed the course in 2015. We target 100 percent for (MDGs). These 17 goals, commonly all employees worldwide in 2016, when the course will be called the Global Goals, set priorities launched in France and Russia. for sustainable development through to 2030. They expand the challenges The aim of this tailor-made course is to raise awareness and that must be addressed to eliminate understanding of Corporate Responsibility issues, emphasising poverty and embrace a wide range that ethical conduct is required of everyone at Lundin of interconnected topics across the Petroleum. It also increases everyone’s ability to relate issues to economic, social and environmental their own role and responsibilities. dimensions of sustainable development. The course covers the main elements of Lundin Petroleum’s Lundin Petroleum recognises that Corporate Responsibility framework: these goals can only be achieved if public and private actors participate · Code of Conduct in their advancement. In 2016, Lundin · Health, Safety & Environment Petroleum plans to review the ways in which the Company can contribute to · Anti-Corruption their fulﬁlment. · Human Rights More information on how Lundin · Stakeholder Relations Petroleum implemented the SDGs in · Whistleblowing 2015 through the partnership with the Lundin Foundation on pages 34–37. This e-learning course was one of the activities launched in 2015 that triggered an unprecedented level of engagement on the topic of corporate responsibility throughout the Company. The course was received with a high level of interest as it reinforces our common values of responsible business conduct. Positive and constructive feedback received provides useful guidance to improve our work further. Feedback “I was impressed by the e-learning course. It was an excellent reminder that whilst we have all read and understood our corporate policies, Code of Conduct and company ethos, we may not all know them as well as we think… there was a lot of enthusiasm and discussion generated as a result of the subjects and questions raised.” – Andrew Harber, Managing Director in the Netherlands “This is an excellent way to ensure that employees are informed about the content of our CSR policies.” – Bill Carnahan, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in Malaysia Human Rights Policy EITI UN Guiding Stakeholder E-learning Principles on Engagement Policy Business & Contractor UN Global Anti-Corruption Human Rights UN Call to Action Declaration Compact Policy Biodiversity First Sustainability Statement Report 200920102011201220132014 20152016 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 9 Corporate Governance We are committed to ethical business practices and high Board of Directors standards of corporate governance. Integrity and responsibility The Board of Directors of Lundin Petroleum is responsible are core values at Lundin Petroleum and central to our for the organisation of the Company and management reputation as Europe’s leading independent oil and gas of the operations in the interests of the Company and company. Our Code of Conduct sets our commitment to work all shareholders. The Board should at all times have an responsibly, with integrity and respect, and provides guidance appropriate composition considering the current and expected for everyone working for, or on behalf of, Lundin Petroleum. development of the operations, with Board members from a wide range of backgrounds who possess both individually We believe that our business can only be successful in the and collectively the necessary experience and expertise. An long-term if corporate responsibility commitments are shared even gender distribution should be pursued and currently 38 by everyone in the Group. Strong corporate governance, percent of the members of the Board of Directors are women, comprehensive risk management and robust internal control which exceeds the recommendation of the Swedish Corporate are key to achieving our goals. Governance Board that larger listed companies should strive to achieve 35 percent female Board representation by 2017. Lundin Petroleum seeks to generate long-term value for shareholders, as well as other stakeholders, and has, since its creation in 2001, been guided by general principles of corporate governance to: · Protect shareholder rights · Provide a safe and rewarding working environment to all employees · Abide by applicable laws and best industry practice · Carry out activities competently and sustainably · Sustain the well-being of local communities in areas of operation Our corporate governance Lundin Petroleum maintains an efﬁcient Group structure that currently consists of approximately 30 companies in eight jurisdictions. Lundin Petroleum AB is the Swedish parent company. As a Swedish public company listed on NASDAQ Stockholm, Lundin Petroleum is subject to the Swedish Companies Act and the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, as well as the Rule Book for Issuers of NASDAQ Stockholm. In addition, the Company abides by principles of corporate governance found in a number of internal and external documents. Lundin Norway office, Oslo 10 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Lundin Petroleum’s Governance Structure Shareholders Nomination Articles of Association Shareholders’ Committee Process Meeting Compensation Committee Nomination Committee Terms of Reference Statutory Auditor Audit Committee Board of Independent Qualified Directors Reserves Auditor Internal Control and Audit Investment Committee Code of Internal Audit Activity Rules of Procedure Investment CR/HSE Board representative Committee Charter President and CEO Code of Policies, Procedures, Guidelines Conduct and Management System Group management Code of Conduct Policies, procedures, guidelines Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct is a set of principles and management system formulated by the Board of Directors, to give overall guidance While the Code of Conduct provides Lundin Petroleum’s to employees, contractors and partners on how the Company ethical framework, dedicated Group policies, procedures is to conduct its activities in an economically, socially and and guidelines have been developed to outline speciﬁc rules environmentally responsible way, for the beneﬁt of all and controls. The policies, guidelines and procedures cover stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, business areas such as Operations, Accounting and Finance, Health, partners, host and home governments and local communities. Safety and Environment (HSE), Community Relations, Anti-Corruption, Human Rights, Stakeholder Engagement, As a responsible company, Lundin Petroleum is committed to Information Systems, Insurance & Risk Management, carry out its operations with the highest standards of ethical Human Resources and Corporate Communications. They are business conduct and strives for continuous improvement to continuously reviewed and updated according to our Group ensure safe operations while preserving the environment. management system. Lundin Petroleum also recognises the importance of In addition, Lundin Petroleum has a dedicated HSE contractors’ performance in matters related to Corporate Management System (the Green Book), modelled after the Responsibility and aims to ensure that its contractors, suppliers ISO 14001 standard, which gives guidance to management, and other business partners abide by the same ethical employees and contractors regarding the Company’s intentions standards by having them sign its Contractor Declaration. In and expectations in HSE matters. The Green Book serves to this process it also seeks to increase awareness of Corporate ensure that all operations meet Lundin Petroleum’s legal and Responsibility among its contractors (see page 23). ethical obligations, its responsibilities and HSE commitments (see page 20). Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 11 Risk Management External and internal factors influence the Company’s overall risk profile The objective of risk management is to identify, understand and manage threats and opportunities within the business Risk Identification on a continual basis. This objective is achieved by creating a mandate and commitment to risk management at all levels · Identification of strategic, of the business. This approach actively addresses risk as operational, financial and an integral and continual part of the control activities and external risks affecting decision making within Lundin Petroleum. the Company · Risk assessment Risk identification · Identification of interrelated As part of Lundin Petroleum’s risk identiﬁcation and internal and external factors assessment process, local management reviews and analyses · Prioritisation the risks that affect the business on an ongoing basis. The risks are then assessed, on a quarterly basis with heads of departments, through a standardised methodology based on likelihood and impact. After identifying a risk, local management considers possible changes in the internal and external control environment to better achieve its business Risk Management objectives. The process identiﬁes the signiﬁcance of risks and opportunities and determines actions when needed. · Share or transfer risk · Internal control Risk management · Policies and procedures Even though the Company has a robust process, the oil and gas industry faces numerous strategic, operational, ﬁnancial and external risks, which even with a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be fully able to eliminate or which are beyond the Company’s control. Today’s business landscape is dynamic, ﬂuid and often characterised by rapid change, regional differences and cultural contrasts that lead to signiﬁcant business risks. Risk Monitoring · Local operations accountability Risk management creates value by enabling management to · Company oversight deal effectively with potential events that create uncertainty. Risk management is a process which is designed to identify · Regular risk reporting potential events that may affect the Company. Through · Internal and external audit developing knowledge and competence internally to face the challenges of business developments, proactive risk management is encouraged and maintained. Further information on the Company’s strategic, operational, ﬁnancial and external risks can be found in the Annual Report. 12 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Edvard Grieg control room Risk monitoring Anti-fraud To help accomplish Lundin Petroleum’s objectives and bring We seek to prevent fraud and enhance Lundin Petroleum’s a systematic and disciplined approach to evaluating and governance and internal control standards for our business improving the effectiveness of risk management and internal activities to maintain integrity in all business activities, control processes, the Company follows a “Three Lines of consistent with our Code of Conduct. Internal Audit conducts Defence” approach, described below. anti-fraud workshops with local ﬁnance departments in countries of operations. Ensuring adherence to all policies Internal control and audit and high standards are an integral part of our management to Internal audit is concerned with the adequacy and detect, deter and report fraudulent behaviour. effectiveness of systems of control and whether they are managed, maintained, complied with and function effectively, and performs regular audits according to a risk based internal audit plan which is approved by the Company’s Audit Committee established by the Board. Internal control provides independent and objective appraisal of the control environment thereby adding value to the organisation through a continuous improvement process. Local Operations Group Management Internal Audit This is provided by local staff This is provided by the oversight This is provided by internal audit, and management who own and functions within the Company, giving the Board and Group manage risk and control through including amongst other financial management independent adequate design of internal control, risk management and assurance regarding the Group’s control processes managerial and information security. internal control, risk management supervisory controls to ensure and governance. compliance with processes and to manage unexpected events. 1st LINE OF DEFENCE 2nd LINE OF DEFENCE 3rd LINE OF DEFENCE Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 13 Compliance, Anti-Corruption and Whistleblowing Lundin Petroleum is a: · participant company to the United Nations Global Compact · member of the United Nations Global Compact Nordic Network · signatory of the United Nations Global Compact’s Call to Action on Anti-Corruption Compliance with laws and regulations Lundin Petroleum emphasises the importance of ensuring that · supporting company of the Extractive Industries our business activities meet applicable laws and regulations Transparency Initiative (EITI) that govern our industry. Legal compliance is the minimum expected from our operations, as we aspire to foster a culture Lundin Petroleum considers transparency of payments made of integrity and corporate responsibility. to governments as a way to honour our commitment to contribute to the economic and social development of our host In 2015, there were no signiﬁcant ﬁnes, nor non-monetary countries. We believe that the EITI is a meaningful initiative sanctions for non-compliance with environmental or other for the industry and natural resource rich countries, since laws and regulations in the Group. it reconciles government’s disclosure of cash ﬂows from the extractive industry with the disclosure of payments made Anti-corruption to the government. Lundin Petroleum therefore became a Lundin Petroleum recognises that corruption has negative supporting company of the EITI in 2013. Since then, we engage effects on business, society and individuals since it interferes on a regular basis with the EITI secretariat and have joined with normal market forces and undermines economic board meetings as observers in order to stay ahead of current development and socio-political stability. We believe that the and emerging trends and issues. rule of law and transparency are critical to ﬁght this global challenge. Lundin Norway has taken part in the annual disclosure process since EITI’s inception. Its reports to the EITI include Our Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines were adopted in disclosure on the petroleum tax, CO2 tax, NOx tax, area fees 2011. Anti-corruption is a topic included in staff presentations and other payments. An independent third party performs at corporate and operational levels on a yearly basis. In 2015, the reconciliation, which is then published in Norway’s EITI anti-corruption was one of the main topics covered in our Report. Corporate Responsibility e-learning course. In addition to a review of the main tenets of our Anti-Corruption Policy Whistleblowing and Guidelines trainees were taken through case studies We believe in trust and openness, and we encourage our and a knowledge test. To abide by anti-corruption laws and people to raise concerns regarding unethical or illegal conduct principles is also a requirement towards our business partners that may arise in the course of their professional engagements and contractors. Anti-corruption principles are included in in an open and direct manner. contractual clauses, and in the Contractor Declaration we require our contractors to sign. Lundin Petroleum’s Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure encourages anyone working for the Company to raise concerns In addition to tracking internal corruption potential through regarding inappropriate conduct. The suggested process is to our ﬁnancial and Corporate Responsibility reviews and audits, raise the concern with the line manager or a supervisor. If corruption trends are monitored in areas where we work the issue is deemed not to be addressed adequately, concerns through Transparency International’s Corruption Index, can be raised formally via whistleblowing@lundin.ch. While media and NGO reports, legislative developments and law everyone is encouraged to raise their concern openly, the enforcement. There were no cases of corruption throughout whistleblowing procedure provides a conﬁdential channel to the Group in 2015 or years prior. submit cases, where employees, former employees, business partners and contractors can report suspected violations of Lundin Petroleum actively promotes anti-corruption also the Company’s Corporate Responsibility commitment or beyond the Group, at conferences, with business partners, applicable laws. Every reported case is investigated, dealt with as well as with peers. Lundin Petroleum participates in the conﬁdentially and with third party assistance when relevant. global ﬁght against corruption by supporting a number of Finally and most importantly, we ensure that no one faces international initiatives that are intended to promote ethical adverse consequences for having raised a concern about ethical business conduct and reduce levels of corruption in particular business conduct. There were no cases of whistleblowing in the locations or industries. Group in 2015. 14 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Employees in Norway 15 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Our People “Our people are our greatest single asset and the foundation for our success” Sean Reddy Head of Group Human Resources 2015 was a transformational year for Lundin Petroleum in Lundin Petroleum also employs a large number of consultants terms of changes to its management and organisation. Alex and contractors who provide services for and on behalf Schneiter was appointed Chief Executive Ofﬁcer in October of Lundin Petroleum. In 2015, a total of 128 consultants 2015, Nick Walker was brought in as Chief Operating Ofﬁcer, were engaged for services related to exploration, project Kristin Faerovik took on the position of Managing Director in development and other key start-up and operational activities. Norway and Grace Reksten Skaugen was nominated as the new CR/HSE Board representative. Lundin Norway moved into new ofﬁce headquarters and offshore organisations were established on the Bertam ﬁeld in Malaysia and on the Edvard Grieg platform in the Norwegian North Sea. Our key resource Employees per country At Lundin Petroleum we value our people and encourage the development of capable and motivated staff to deliver performance and support our continued development. We Indonesia Russia have been very successful over the years in attracting and Norway retaining the best possible talent in the industry, thanks to Malaysia our inclusive working environment and our focus on highperformance. Sweden Acting locally and thinking globally is a guiding principle in our approach to the selection, recruitment and management Switzerland of our employee base, by ensuring that all employment Netherlands opportunities are offered on the basis of skills and experience. France As the business continues to grow it is our commitment to develop and grow this base of world class employees that will continue to drive our transformational growth. A steady employee base At the end of 2015, Lundin Petroleum had a total of 589 employees directly employed by the Group in eight different countries. The majority of the workforce is located in Norway representing 57 percent of the total workforce, followed by Workforce evolution Malaysia with 21 percent. Employees Consultants The oil and gas industry, however, is experiencing challenging 1,000 times due to the volatile macroeconomic environment and 900 low oil prices. Adapting to these challenges required some 800 Total headcount reorganisation and a focus on cost efﬁciency. Our main focus 700 has been on trying to reduce costs related to our contractual 600 arrangements, both in terms of services provided and human 500 resources. As a result in Norway, the employee base has 400 remained largely unchanged. The Company engaged in some 300 restructuring activities in Malaysia and Russia to ﬁt the level of 200 activities in those countries, and decided to divest its interests 100 in Indonesia. 0.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 16 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Diversity in the workforce Employee nationalities Lundin Petroleum values an open and inclusive working environment and strives to maintain a competent, engaged and experienced workforce. We recruit based on qualiﬁcations and irrespective of gender, ethnicity, religion, disability, etc. We are committed to promote equal opportunity and do not accept any kind of discrimination. Wherever we operate, we actively strive to employ locally so that we can beneﬁt from the local knowledge and experience, while contributing to enhanced expertise within the host country. Our employees are provided with the necessary skills, knowledge and motivation to be successful in their work and for the ongoing success of the Company, which is proven by its strong results and low levels of employee turnover compared to industry norms. In 2015, a total of 24 different nationalities were employed throughout Lundin Petroleum’s global operations. In 2015, women represented 29 percent in the total workforce, and 20 percent in managerial positions. In 2015, the proportion of Gender distribution women in the Board of Directors reached 38 percent. per category WOMEN 38% Board of Directors MEN 62% WOMEN 20% Managers MEN 80% WOMEN 29% All MEN 71% Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 17 Our People “Lundin Petroleum is indeed very well positioned as we are now entering a new phase of significant growth led by a great team of people” Alex Schneiter President and CEO Training youth for tomorrow Lundin Petroleum aims to be an attractive employer wherever Lundin Norway – an attractive employer we operate, and we are committed to ongoing training and development of all employees for our beneﬁt and that of the Lundin Norway appears on the top of the list in the industry. “most attractive employers” survey by Universum, which asked more than 8,000 employed engineers which Our French operations, for instance, welcome on a yearly companies they would prefer to work for. basis ten students who work at the company part of the week and attend classes the rest of the week. The students can “It is good to see that a company of our size is able to integrate various departments, including health, safety and compete in a league where most of our competitors are environment, geology, exploration, production, elecricity, considerably larger” maintenance, IT, human resources and accounting. Key to the Jørn Kokvold success of these programmes are our employees who share Human Resources Manager, Lundin Norway their expertise and guide the students. We believe that such work experience enhances young people’s ability to ﬁnd their ﬁrst job in the industry, and that we thus contribute to the success of their future careers. Labour relations We actively engage and promote good employee relations and sound employment practices wherever we operate. In 2015, Lundin Norway became a member of the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association, which plays a central role in agreements between employers and unions, namely IndustryEnergy, the Norwegian Union of Energy Workers (Safe) and the Norwegian Association for Supervisors (Lederne). The union agreements cover issues relevant to employees such as working hours, work schedule, salary systems, overtime rates, leave of absence and rules for central and local negotiations both on and offshore. Ultimately, the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association ensures that the oil and gas sector offers attractive working conditions in line with practice in Norwegian industry. Through its membership in the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association, Lundin Norway has the opportunity to share expertise and experience with other oil and gas companies in dedicated working groups. 18 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Offshore staff, Norway 19 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Health and Safety Health and safety always come first Ensuring safe and responsible operations Planning for safety As an oil and gas company we operate in an industry exposed Safe design and implementing a systematic approach to risk to safety risks. In this context, it is our responsibility to provide reduction in all activities is part of any project planning. our staff and contractors with safe and healthy working The design incorporates HSE best practice and best available conditions and we do so by identifying and mitigating potential techniques (BAT principle) to ensure that construction, testing, risks. Speciﬁc policies, processes, procedures, training, work installation, maintenance and normal production activities can practices and equipment have been put in place to ensure that be carried out in an efﬁcient, safe and environmentally sound this responsibility is being met and that risks are minimised. manner. Our goal is zero injuries to people. Managing proactively The purpose of Lundin Petroleum’s Health, Safety and Lundin Petroleum’s Environment (HSE) management system (Green Book) is to HSE Framework prevent accidents or incidents which could have an impact on people, the environment or on the Company’s assets. The Company undertakes risk assessments and uses Key HSE GOALS Performance Indicators (KPIs) among its HSE management » Zero fatalities tools, focusing not only on areas where incidents have already » Zero incidents occurred, but also where they could potentially occur. Carrying » Zero harm to the environment out investigations after incidents have occurred enables us to ascertain the causes of the incidents and take corrective action to prevent similar incidents from happening again. Sharing experiences, lessons learned and best practice are HSE Management also important HSE tools and take place informally within System / Green Book the Group on an ongoing basis and formally through regular Group HSE network meetings and management visits to the operations. Group Policies and Procedures Lundin Petroleum also conducts internal HSE audits, in order to identify and mitigate potential safety issues and ensure that sound HSE practices are in place. Corporate Requirements Embracing a strong safety culture While policies and procedures provide a good and necessary framework, they are not enough to ensure safe operations. A strong safety culture is created when employees are sufﬁciently Corporate Country empowered to personally take responsibility for performing HSE Plans HSE Plans their work safely and when they have a sense of ownership regarding safe operations and a deep-rooted commitment to that goal. Constant vigilance is essential as well as encouraging Country Monitoring Reporting on staff to identify and openly report unsafe conditions, acts or and Corporate risks. Lundin Petroleum believes in the sound judgment and Supervision Requirements capability of its employees and, in addition to our policies, procedures and personal protective equipment, we provide them with the necessary resources, training, advice and guidance to enable them to conduct their work in the safest Country Yearly Self-assessment possible manner. Reviews against HSE and Audits Management System Since safety is a joint responsibility, the same level of commitment is expected from contractors, suppliers and partners, in order to ensure that the highest standards of safety are followed across all operations. 20 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Systematic reporting Lost Time Incident Rate All incidents that occur at Lundin Petroleum’s sites are reported and shared at different levels in the Company, with Employees Contractors the purpose of increasing awareness and preventing future 3.5 occurrences. “Near misses with high potential” are treated as 3.0 (per million hours worked) importantly as serious incidents since they are deemed to have had potential to cause harm if circumstances had been slightly 2.5 different. 2.0 LTIR Health and safety performance 1.5 In 2015, the Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) for Lundin 1.0 Petroleum’s employees and contractors was 1.76 per million hours worked and the Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0.5 was 3.71 per million hours worked. The incidents to personnel 0.0 recorded over the year were of low severity. They included 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 a twisted ankle, a ﬁnger injury and debris in the eyes which required medical treatment. The operational environment from a health and safety perspective changed signiﬁcantly in 2015 with the delivery of two major development projects and the start-up of production 2015 Incidents from the Bertam and Edvard Grieg ﬁelds. As a result, Lundin employees and contractors Petroleum has transformed into a fully-ﬂedged production company. Considering this transformation, the safety performance for 2015 was remarkable as no serious incidents 0 9 0 10 6 occurred. 2015 will be used as a benchmark year against which Fatalities Lost time Restricted Medical Near misses incidents work treatment with high future health and safety performance will be assessed. incidents incidents potential Outstanding Performance in France Health and safety committee in France In France, we have a health and safety committee (Comité d’Hygiène, de Sécurité et des Conditions de Travail, CHSCT), which meets once a month to review 904 risks or concerns raised by personnel, discuss incidents and follow up, conduct site inspections and accident days investigations and review regulatory compliance. without any lost time incident The Committee is made up of ﬁve voluntary members, among employees in France as well as the General Manager, the HSE Manager and reached on 31 December 2015 the Committee’s Secretary. With its monthly sessions, it actively contributes to the promotion of employees physical and mental health and safety. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 21 Health and Safety First oil from Bertam The Bertam development Lundin Petroleum’s operations in Malaysia delivered the Bertam ﬁeld development project with an outstanding safety project was delivered safely, performance. During the course of the development, over ﬁve million man-hours were recorded for the Bertam ﬁeld with no on time and on budget lost time or serious incidents. Completing the ﬁrst development project in any country of operations brings challenges. Lundin Malaysia had to select and manage new contractors, and more importantly integrate new operations and maintenance crews, while developing their MALAYSIA competence. Sabah Strong safety leadership, with a focus on safety culture played a critical role in the performance of the project. A highly experienced management team developed and rolled out Peninsular operations and HSE management systems, with constant on-site presence and reinforcement of the safety message. Malaysia Operations readiness review and an external pre-start-up safety review contributed to this safe and efﬁcient project in Malaysia. The project was completed in April 2015, when the ﬁrst oil ﬂowed from the Bertam ﬁeld. The Bertam project was delivered on schedule, within budget and demonstrates the Company’s ability to deliver development projects with a strong health and safety performance. 22 Supervision of the Bertam project, Malaysia Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Contractor management Safety is everyone’s responsibility and Lundin Petroleum expects the same high level of commitment from its contractors, suppliers and partners. Responsible contractor management starts with a due diligence process at pre-qualiﬁcation stage, during which contractors are screened using HSE criteria. Our agreements with contractors contain clauses on their obligation to abide by the principles of Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct, HSE management system, as well as internationally recognised rules and standards on corruption, labour standards and human rights. In 2015, Lundin Petroleum developed a formal Contractor Declaration which was issued in its countries of operations. The declaration sets out our expectations in relation to the way contractors carry out their activities and by including the declaration in all new awarded contracts, it ensures that contractors are aware of our Corporate Responsibility requirements and their obligations. Wherever we operate, we engage with our contractors on safety management Drilling operations in Paris Basin, France Safety forum in France Lundin Petroleum’s expectations of contractors also extend to holding dedicated meetings to highlight the importance of HSE performance. In France, Lundin Petroleum’s HSE team organises every year a safety forum for its contractors. In 2015, more than 100 people representing 90 contractors attended the meeting, including CEOs, general managers, HSE managers and members of health FRANCE and safety committees. After a site visit to the Vert-la-Gravelle new production facilities, the forum started with presentations on general Paris Basin safety instructions, experiences and lessons learned from the past year, as well as changes in safety and environmental requirements. The forum offers a unique opportunity to share information on developments in the Company, annual safety statistics, and to emphasise Lundin Petroleum’s expectations Aquitaine Basin towards contractors in terms of responsible business practices, as laid out in Lundin Petroleum’s Code of Conduct and Contractor Declaration. At this safety forum, one-to-one sessions are organised with each contractor to perform risk analyses of their activities. This is an effective way to establish individual prevention plans and ensures regulatory obligations are met. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 23 Safe Operations ” For the success of our operations we need to make sure that all measures are put in place to prevent any type of incidents ” Daniel Fitzgerald Group Operations Manager Ensuring safe and secure operations that protect people, the environment and our assets is fundamental to our business, and we work closely with industry peers on incident prevention and emergency preparedness. Loppa High Emergency preparedness Emergency response plans and blowout contingency plans are key elements of risk management and emergency preparedness planning. These plans are established prior to the commencement of activities, based on environmental risk assessments and oil spill contingency analysis, as well as safety NORWAY and emergency preparedness analyses. The emergency preparedness is tested on an ongoing basis together with contractors. This is done through regular emergency response drills conducted at ﬁeld and country level. In addition, there is at least one drill per operation and per year conducted with the corporate crisis management team. Throughout the year, internal and third party HSE audits and management systems reviews ensure the adequacy of Greater preparedness to deal with emergencies. Alvheim Area Emergency preparedness in the Loppa High Utsira High In the fourth quarter 2015, Lundin Norway successfully executed the drilling operation in the eastern part of the Southern Barents Sea. The well was drilled using the semisubmersible drilling rig Transocean Arctic and was completed with an excellent HSE performance. Local employees, which were hired and assigned to the project, brought valuable experience and knowledge into the planning and execution. An oil-spill contingency plan was prepared in close dialogue In line with our operational strategy for this region, planning with the Norwegian Coastal Authorities, focussing on local and preparation included cooperation and support from local environmental conditions and potential cross-border pollution. communities and resources to establish a robust solution to The basis for this plan also included gathering advice from handle operational challenges related to infrastructure in experts on international oil pollution law. place and potential emergency situations. Lundin Norway used the Kirkenes airport, a new infrastructure for the oil and gas During the preparations, Lundin Norway was audited by the industry in the region, which established a heliport especially Petroleum Safety Authority which concluded that “Lundin has for regular personnel transport to the installation and for done thorough planning related to the establishment of a new hosting a Search and Rescue (SAR) helicopter for emergency helicopter base and operation in a new area of the Barents response services. Sea”. 24 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Offshore staff, Norway Preventing major accidents Lundin Petroleum is committed to ensuring that its well Process safety and well integrity play a critical part in the construction activities are conducted safely, cost effectively prevention of major accidents. Process safety involves and in accordance with industry best practise while focusing managing the integrity of operating systems and processes on continuous performance improvement. Well construction to prevent unplanned releases which could result in a major operations encompass drilling, completion, workover and incident. The prevention and control of events that have the well intervention. Through our well integrity management we potential to release hazardous materials therefore relies on ensure that our well construction teams design, construct and good design principles and operating practices. operate exploration, appraisal and production wells within a deﬁned set of procedures and guidelines, consistent with our In 2015, Lundin Petroleum introduced new reporting HSE commitment. requirements on process safety in line with industry standards. The number of process safety events, as well as the loss of primary containment, resulting in unplanned or uncontrolled releases, are tracked across our operations. Data on process safety performance will be reported in the 2016 sustainability report. Safety and emergency response preparedness Lundin Norway has joined other oil companies in a collaborative venture to ﬁnd common solutions for safe exploration in the southern Barents Sea. Through the Barents Sea Exploration Collaboration project (BaSEC), leading oil companies aim to overcome potential challenges posed by exploring the area. BaSEC was originally established by Lundin Norway, Statoil, Eni Norge, OMV and GDF Suez and has expanded to a total of 16 participating companies. Launched in 2015, the project focuses on increased coordination and cost-effective solutions to ensure high levels of safety and emergency response. In-house experts from the participating companies have formed working groups dealing with ﬁve main topics: environment and oil spill response, logistics and emergency preparedness, mobile drilling units, metocean and ice, as well as health and working environment. As one of the founding members, Lundin Norway has been an integral part of all working groups, contributing to industry expertise. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 25 Environment Managing potential environmental impacts at all Protecting biodiversity The preservation of biological diversity is an integral part of stages of operations Lundin Petroleum’s commitment to protect the environment. Potential biodiversity impact is assessed in baseline and impact studies and sensitive areas that are located in the proximity of our operations (sites which may be covered by national laws or Lundin Petroleum is committed to respecting and preserving international treaties such as the IUCN Protected Areas and the the natural environment. Our operations are exposed to Ramsar Convention) are mapped to make sure that such areas various environmental settings, from onshore to offshore sites, would not be negatively impacted by our activities. each with different natural characteristics and sensitivities. Exploring for and producing oil and gas are activities with None of our operations are situated in a protected area, but our a potential impact on the environment. Hence, we see it as Vert-la-Gravelle site in France is located adjacent to a nationally a priority to have in place measures to minimise the impact protected area. In order to ensure we would not have an of our operations on the surrounding environment and we impact on the diverse bird population, an environmental study monitor closely our activities from this perspective. was commissioned which determined that the potential impact of our planned activities was low and limited in time and Environmental assessments would not affect the biodiversity in any lasting way. Environmental protection starts with prevention, which is made possible by a good understanding of the particular Marine environment conservation environmental context. Before any exploration, development Ecosystem protection is considered an important element in or production activities are undertaken, Lundin Petroleum mitigating adverse effects of climate change. South East Asia, performs or relies on existing environmental baseline or one of our key areas of operations, hosts some of the world’s impact studies to determine the potential effects of our most biodiverse marine ecosystems with close to 40 percent of activities on the environment. The scope of these studies the world’s reef ﬁsh and 76 percent of the world’s known coral depends on the nature of the planned activities and existing species. This rich and unique biodiversity is however coming knowledge of the area and can include the study of relevant under increasing threat due to overﬁshing and unsustainable literature, visual monitoring as well as sediment and water ﬁshing practices. sampling. Based on the ﬁndings, measures may be taken to minimise environmental impact, for example by drilling Through its partnership with the Lundin Foundation, Lundin a deviated well, changing the anchor pattern of the rig or Petroleum contributes to biodiversity conservation projects in bringing drill cuttings to shore. In all cases, Lundin Petroleum this area. These projects aim to reverse the trend by fostering commences drilling activities only after an environmental marine ecosystems which protect habitats and enhance costal permit is obtained from national or state authorities. resilience to climate change (see pages 36–37). 26 Edvard Grieg, Norway Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Operations in Paris Basin, France Integrating environmental protection in France Drilling and construction of the facilities for the Vert-la-Gravelle development project in France took place following a period of 20 months of studies and administrative Vert-la-Gravelle Development procedures. All project related work including studies, design, process selection, choice of materials and facilities, and monitoring was conducted by our teams. The tasks undertaken included the construction of four platforms, the drilling of two Key facts wells, the construction of a 25,000 m² production centre and of a 13 km ﬂowline network. No harm to the environment As the Vert-la-Gravelle area is located near wetlands, the project included a strong environmental management No lost time incident component. Studies were conducted on the surrounding fauna and ﬂora, as well as on the potential archaeological value of the area. A speciﬁc study was conducted on the potential 16 months of construction impacts of the proposed facilities. Recommendations were implemented to ensure that the development project and · 52,820 hours worked activities of the site would have no impact on the surrounding · 1,350 work permits environment. · 85 prevention plans The development of Vert-la-Gravelle was also remarkable from · 54 security meetings a health and safety point of view. The construction phase lasted 16 months, during which two HSE supervisors were on · 16 site audits site to ensure safe working conditions, and to conduct security · 2 fire trainings coordination meetings, site audits and ﬁre ﬁghting training. · 12 HSE alerts As a result of these measures, our HSE goals of zero accidents and zero harm to the environment were achieved in this project. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 27 Environment Waste Decommissioning Lundin Petroleum aims to reduce the amount of waste Decommissioning is an intrinsic part of the life cycle of any generated by applying efﬁcient recycling and disposal methods. asset and must be done safely and with due respect to the We produce different types of waste, such as organic (e.g. natural environment. Oil and gas projects can have a lifespan food scraps) and inorganic (e.g. scrap metal, paper, plastics, of several decades, and hence planning early in the entire batteries) waste. All waste from our operations is segregated project life cycle is part of our responsible approach. It also and disposed of properly. Hazardous waste is treated according enables us to make the required cost allocation in respect of to industry best practice before being safely disposed of our rehabilitation commitment. according to local environmental regulations. In our exploration activities, decommissioning is integrated From an operational point of view, the largest share of waste in the original well design and is an integral part of the well produced is generated during drilling. Drill waste includes drill construction process. The objective of an exploration well is to mud and cuttings. Drilling muds are ﬂuids generally water establish the presence of commercial quantities of oil, thus it is based, but sometimes oil based, which are used to transport a short term activity and under normal circumstances the well drilled cuttings from downhole to surface, to stabilise the is decommissioned once the well objective is achieved. During rock being drilled and to ensure that the well remains under decommissioning the well is cut under the seabed eliminating control at all times. During the drilling process, cuttings are all protruding elements. The natural environment is therefore transported from the hole to the surface and segregated from restored to its original condition. In 2015, Lundin Petroleum the drilling mud. Once the process is complete, the cuttings are decommissioned the Krabbe well for which it inherited the disposed of and the drilling ﬂuid either re-used or disposed of, abandonment liability. depending on operational requirements. All producing assets under ownership and control of Lundin Disposal methods vary from reinjection, recycling, onshore Petroleum have a decommissioning plan in place, in line with disposal to controlled sites, and offshore disposal, and can be the Group policy. As the majority of our assets have just been with or without pre-treatment according to their composition put into production, Lundin Petroleum did not carry out any and regulatory requirements. decommissioning activities in 2015. Water In the company’s existing portofolio the only decommissioning The sustainable use of water resources is becoming an activities for producing assets may take place in France, where increasingly important global sustainability issue. Water the practice is to restore the site back in its original form or scarcity is indeed a growing challenge in many regions. While in a manner suitable to the land owners, who may request sustainable water management is material to the industry in existing infrastructure to be left for their own activities. general, it is not a material risk for Lundin Petroleum insofar as none of our operations is located in a water scarce area. Oil spill prevention Nevertheless, we recognise the importance of sound water We aim to prevent any oil spill and plan for effective management practices and continue to improve our water response in the unlikely event of a spill. Through our oil spill management approach. management system we ensure that risks are properly assessed and that we have the competence and capacity to prevent and, The water used in our drilling and production activities comes if need be, to manage oil spills. Elements of the management mostly from non-fresh water sources, such as seawater for system include oil spill contingency plans and training of staff instance in our operations in Norway and Malaysia. Fresh to prevent and remediate spills. water may be withdrawn in our French operations from reservoirs or underground aquifers but only with regulatory Every country of operations has arrangements with national oil approval and in such quantities as not to have any impact on spill response organisations in order to obtain their assistance water availability. in the event of a spill. As an additional precautionary step, Lundin Petroleum has a contract with the world’s largest As part of its management of daily operations the Company oil spill preparedness and response organisation, Oil Spill manages wastewater by on-site treatment and discharge, reResponse (OSRL), to ensure an effective response in case of injection into the oil or gas reservoirs or disposal in a safe and need. In 2015, the Company recorded no reportable oil spill regulated manner. throughout the Group. Six chemical spills took place in Norway, however due to their low chemical component none had a lasting impact on the environment. 28 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Oil spill detection Our Edvard Grieg platform in Norway is the ﬁrst to have installed for a full-scale trial, a newly-developed radar designed to detect oil on the sea surface. This new radar has a remote sensing system for detection and mapping of potential pollution. Compared to conventional oil spill detection systems, the new radar utilises an enhanced sensing method, which allows it to detect oil with far better precision and range. It can potentially measure the thickness of an oil spill and thus estimate the volume of oil in the spill. The development and qualiﬁcation of this new oil spill detection radar is the result of the collaboration bewteen Lundin Norway, Statoil and ISPAS, and has received funding from the Research Council of Norway. Edvard Grieg platform, Norway 29 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Climate Change Climate change represents a global challenge that has an effect on the way we do business Lundin Petroleum’s ambition is to continue to expand its existing asset base and to explore, develop and produce oil and gas resources in the most efﬁcient way from emissions perspective. To meet this objective, we have developed over the years systems and processes that increase energy efﬁciency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout our global operations. The majority of Lundin Petroleum’s activities are located in Norway, the area in the world which over the past ten years has had the lowest carbon intensity levels in the industry. It also represents an area with high standards and costs for emissions. By including climate change considerations in operational activities and in the selection of installation designs, products and equipment, we have minimised both our carbon footprint and our operational costs. Greenhouse gas emissions Lundin Petroleum manages greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through operational energy efﬁciency, by reducing ﬂaring or venting, and by factoring a carbon cost into the economic planning and engineering design of new projects. We also apply the latest available technique principle (BAT) for new activities in order to beneﬁt from ever increasing energy efﬁcient equipment or processes. Lundin Petroleum’s direct GHG emissions were 109 million tonnes in 2015. The Company’s GHG emission levels are inﬂuenced by shifts in business activity. With the start-up of two operated production sites we have signiﬁcantly increased our production. 2015 emissions are therefore not comparable with those of previous years. Meeting the energy needs of the future Oil and gas provide nearly 60 percent of the world’s energy and will continue to make up a large part of the demand for decades to come. The challenge that lies ahead will be to develop and produce these resources in the most energy efﬁcient and environmentally responsible way. In addition to operational measures, Lundin Petroleum monitors and actively participates in the debate on climate change and, through engagement with environmental organisations and other stakeholders, we stay informed of the latest developments on international climate policy. As part of our risk and environmental management, we analyse upcoming climate policy measures and how they will affect the energy market and take this into account in our strategic planning to make sure that our asset base is robust and sustainable, now and in the future. Through the Lundin Foundation’s projects on renewable energy and forest conservation we contribute to climate change resilience (see pages 35–36). Exploration drilling rig, Norway 30 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Low carbon innovations on Edvard Grieg and Johan Sverdrup Major development projects, such as Edvard Grieg and The nearby Johan Sverdrup ﬁeld, which is scheduled to Johan Sverdrup, demonstrate how innovative technical come onstream in late 2019, will receive power from solutions can lead to increased energy efﬁciency and a shore from the start. As a result, offshore emissions signiﬁcant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. from Johan Sverdrup are estimated to be reduced by 80 to 90 percent compared with a standard development. The Edvard Grieg platform, located west of Stavanger in the North Sea, has been constructed using the Best Available Technique principle (BAT) which was applied in the three most carbon emitting processes: ﬂaring, power generation and energy management. 80% of Lundin Petroleum’s operations are located in Norway, the most energy efficient oil and gas producing Over the lifetime of the Johan country in the world Sverdrup field, savings of 19 million tonnes of CO2 are expected due to the power from shore solution Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 31 Human Rights PROTECT Respect for human rights is part of our business HUMAN RIGHTS Lundin Petroleum is committed to ensure that no matter where we operate our activities do not have a negative impact RESPECT REMEDY on human rights. The majority of Lundin Petroleum’s assets are located in Europe with operations offshore. The Company is therefore in a low risk environment with respect to human rights. From commitment to implementation Our commitment to respect human rights was ﬁrst set forth in our Code of Conduct which deﬁnes Lundin Petroleum’s vision, In 2015, our human rights screenings, which review potential values, responsibilities and principles. human rights issues in relation to planned or existing activities, have found, in view of the type of activities and As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, Lundin geographical areas in which the Company operates, that there Petroleum committs to respect human rights as embodied were no salient issues. The conduct of formal human rights in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the impact assessments were therefore not required. International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural However, it is important to raise our employees’ awareness Rights and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) of human rights issues even beyond the operational context. Conventions. We trained them on the issue of human rights at work, through a dedicated module on human rights in our Corporate Lundin Petroleum’s Board of Directors recognises the Responsibility e-learning course. Company’s responsibility not to infringe on individuals’ human rights and the moral duty to promote human rights Promoting human rights in our sphere of inﬂuence. The Board therefore has endorsed Lundin Petroleum seeks to contribute to the advancement of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, human rights in the business sector. We expect our business which set a milestone by clarifying businesses’ responsibility partners, contractors and suppliers to respect human rights to respect human rights. Following the endorsement, Human and to observe the highest standards of professional integrity. Rights Policy and Guidelines have been adopted, detailing the In 2015, these expectations were further formalised by human rights due diligence to be conducted throughout the rewording the contractual clauses in relation to human rights Company’s global operations. and through a Contractor Declaration. The human rights due diligence is a process by which Beyond our value chain, we seek to engage with stakeholders potential human rights risks are identiﬁed, assessed over time, at the local and international level. Lundin Petroleum’s Vice and where measures to prevent or mitigate these risks are President Corporate Responsibility joined the Advisory Board determined. Human rights due diligence is reviewed during of the Business School of Lausanne’s Platform for Business and our Corporate Responsibility management system audits which Human Rights, which was launched in 2015 in order to provide are conducted annually in our operations. an industry perspective on the importance of human rights to the corporate world. Since the vast majority of Lundin Petroleum’s operations take place offshore in developed parts of the world, the Furthermore, since the adoption of the UN Guiding Principles main human rights risk related to operations is the potential in 2011, we have followed the evolution of the business temporary interference with ﬁshing activities during offshore and human rights ﬁeld closely and participate every year seismic operations. To address this risk, we have in place a in the Annual Forum on Business & Human Rights at the process to ensure that we do not cause undue interference United Nations in Geneva. This gathering provides a unique and that any losses are fully compensated. The compensation opportunity to assess the state of advancement of the scheme is pre-agreed with ﬁshermen’s representatives and implementation of human rights in business practices, to meet relevant authorities. with experts and to exchange views and practice in this ﬁeld. 32 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Stakeholders We engage with a wide range of stakeholders to understand their views and expectations Lundin Petroleum recognises the importance of understanding International initiatives the context in which we operate. Expectations vary according Lundin Petroleum engages with a variety of organisations to the type of activities, whether seismic, drilling or such as NGOs and industry groups to exchange views and production, and where these activities take place, onshore or best practice and to report on its commitment to responsible offshore, in a developed or remote area. business conduct. It is member of industry associations such as the Norwegian oil and gas association. Lundin Petroleum The level of engagement with stakeholders depends on the also supports and participates in meetings of international nature of their interest or their link to our activities. We also initiatives that promote principles of corporate citizenship: the tailor the type of engagement required to ensure we properly UN Global Compact, the UN Guiding Principles on Business assess and address genuine needs and expectations. & Human Rights, the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) and the CDP. We are committed to honesty and transparency and to openly communicate with people and organisations which may be impacted by or impact our activities. Our ability to identify and address these expectations are key in fostering constructive and long-term relationships and in enabling us to carry out our Engaging with communities activities. Lundin Norway carried out a detailed programme of Shareholders stakeholder engagement, in relation to its 2015 drilling Shareholders are informed of Lundin Petroleum’s strategy operations in the southern Barents Sea. Company and ongoing activities through public disclosure in the form representatives held meetings and were in dialogue with of ﬁnancial reports, press releases, presentations and through prioritised stakeholders well ahead of the commencement the Company website. Engagement with shareholders also of drilling. takes place in individual or joint meetings and at the Annual General Meeting. As local host for our drilling operations on the Loppa High, the Hammerfest municipalities were important Employees to engage with, as were the Kirkenes and Sør-Varanger Engagement with staff takes place on a daily basis. Corporate municipalities for the Ørnen ﬁeld located further east. management visit country operations on a regular basis and Mayors of the municipalities were the key stakeholders hold individual meetings to discuss Group strategy and local in this process. Their main interest was to understand implementation and to track progress on all issues impacting and learn about our views on the potential for a ﬁeld the Company (see staff feedback, page 9). development in the Loppa High, plans for rig operations in 2015–2016, and ﬁnally which ripple effects could be Business partners expected on the local economy in the short and long term, Engagement with business partners takes place at all namely the possibility for local content and contracts with operational stages. Meetings with contractors can be on an local suppliers. We addressed these interests in an open individual basis or at grouped meetings (see safety forum in dialogue and shared our ambitions and near term plans. France, page 23). Of particular importance was to show a true willingness to make a difference in the area. Host governments Contact with host governments takes place prior to the Stakeholder engagement was also conducted with acquisition of a licence and the engagement continues at the local industry by meeting with local partners and national and local levels throughout the lifetime of the licence potential suppliers. Engaging with them was important for period. Lundin Norway to map and understand local competence and delivery capabilities. Local communities Engagement with local communities takes place prior to and Finally, representatives of the Company met with during operational stages, comprising informal engagement as representatives of the hospital, the local hotel and the well as formal meetings together with local authorities. police force in order to be able to rely on good relations and count on their support in case of an emergency situation. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 33 Sustainable Investments Access to Energy Accelerating social wellbeing through impact investment in social or environmental entreprises Lundin Petroleum supports, through its partnership with the Lundin Foundation, innovative solutions to key economic, social and environmental challenges which are relevant to the Biodiversity Conservation energy sector and occur in its areas of operations. Through its impact investments, the Lundin Foundation aims to address the needs of small and medium size enterprises (SMEs) facing limited access to ﬁnancing. It provides ﬁt for purpose capital, in the form of accelerator grants, debt and equity, to help reﬁne and scale early stage ideas. Investment criteria are ﬁnancial viability of the project, innovative business models, but most importantly measurable social or environmental impact. Since the start of the partnership in 2013, the Foundation’s work has focussed on access to energy, biodiversity Sustainable Fisheries conservation and sustainable ﬁsheries, themes which are aligned with speciﬁc United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) as highlighted in the Meeting the SDGs sections below. To date, the projects have taken place in Indonesia and Malaysia where the Company had an active exploration programme at the time. Overtime, as the Company’s activities evolve, so will the geographical focus of future projects. Solar energy project, Indonesia 34 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Access to Energy Over one billion people worldwide still lack Meeting the SDGs access to energy. This not only has signiﬁcant negative health impacts, but also impedes Goal 7: income opportunities and economic growth. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Micro-grids powered by renewable sources present a unique solution to countries in South East Asia, where the cost of Goal 9: extending the grid to remote areas is extremely high. Despite Build resilient infrastructure, its impact potential, few micro-grid businesses have reached promote inclusive and sustainable meaningful scale or attracted investor interest due to, in part, industrialisation and foster innovation the challenges of establishing sustainable business models. Innovative and early stage businesses require capital to reﬁne business models and strengthen commercial viability of the projects. Penampang Renewable Energy Electric Vine Industries (Sabah, Malaysia) (Indonesia) Penampang Renewable Energy (PRE) is a Electric Vine Industries (EVI) business spun off of a local organisation is an early stage renewable with deep roots in local communities that energy company that has installs micro-hydro energy systems to remote developed an innovative solar communities along the western coast of Sabah. Its business micro-grid system, which provides access to energy to remote model presents an opportunity to further develop and ensure communities in eastern Indonesia on a pay as you go model. long-term sustainability of the business. EVI meets an urgent need for access to affordable electricity Lundin Foundation has provided an accelerator grant to in Indonesia’s rural areas. Although recent economic growth strengthen PRE’s manufacturing capacity, provide training on in Indonesia has seen a surge in access to energy, over 60 hydro installations and further expand access to renewable percent of households in eastern Indonesia still lack access energy to new sites. to electricity. Households with access to energy rely on diesel generators, leaving them susceptible to ﬂuctuating fuel costs. PRE’s micro-hydro systems, ultimately owned by the communities, are particularly relevant to the sustainable The Foundation’s grant has enabled EVI to develop a pilot development of Sabah, where access to energy remains a programme in Papua to gather critical market data on energy major challenge for rural communities. In light of increasing usage, pilot an appliance leasing programme, and determine deforestation and loss of environmental biodiversity, commercial viability and pathways to scale. The pilot renewable energy products such as micro-hydro systems can programme launched in mid-2015 has connected over 250 provide a viable option with minimal environmental footprint. people to renewable energy available on a 24 hour basis. The appliance leasing of food processing equipment and freezers Through the Foundation’s grant, PRE was able to triple its was fully repaid ahead of schedule. manufacturing capacity in a time span of two years. Today, PRE produces hydro turbines at 20 percent of the cost of The success of the pilot has enabled EVI to reﬁne its business international competitors. model, expand its activities to three new locations in Indonesia and attract new ﬁnancial supporters. During 2015, PRE trained 15 technicians in key skills such as welding and electrical wiring, as well as 35 village operators enabling them to manufacture, operate and maintain microhydro systems. With the accelerator grant, PRE also installed four new hydro systems, connecting over 1,100 people to renewable energy. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 35 Biodiversity Conservation South East Asia, with its tropical climate and proximity to the equator, holds a wealth Meeting the SDGs of biodiversity both onshore and offshore. Indonesia for example, has the second Goal 13: highest level of biodiversity in the world, with over 10 percent Take urgent action to combat climate of the world’s animals and over 25 percent of the world’s ﬁsh change and its impact population. However, due to demands related to economic development, this unique biodiversity is coming under threat Goal 15: with direct implications on local livelihoods and biodiversity. Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertiﬁcation, and halt and reserve land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Fauna and Flora International (Indonesia) Borneo is a highly biodiverse landscape that is home to over 15,000 plant species and 1,400 mammals, amphibians, birds and ﬁsh. Fauna and Flora International (FFI) works both within and around the forested landscape of Gunung Palung and Danau Sentarum National Parks. This area is comprised of undisturbed peat moss forests which serve an important role in keeping carbon locked in and aid recovery. It is also an important habitat for the Borneo Orangutan, a designated endangered species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. FFI’s project works in close partnership with local communities to develop comprehensive forest management practices that generate climate and livelihood beneﬁts while protecting biodiversity and wildlife. The project focuses on the important role village forests play in carbon capture. It is implemented in close partnership with local communities as community based REDD+ projects to ensure long term sustainable management of the forests. Included in the project are the villages of Laman Satong, a validated project under Plan Vivo standard which produces 4,258 tonnes CO2e (carbon offsets) per annum; Nanga Betung village which produces 15,000 tonnes of CO2e (carbon offsets) per annum. Finally, the Pematang Gaung landscape which has been maintained as a peat forest, stopping the planned conversion into a palm oil plantation, and preventing the release of approximately 190,000 tonnes of carbon per annum. FFI’s work gained international recognition for this carbon offsetting project at the Word Parks Congress in 2014. The project also supports local communities to develop vegetable and chicken farming enterprises, beneﬁtting 400 people through alternative economic activity and minimising the need to encroach on the sensitive forest land. In partnership with local communities, agricultural and commercial concessions, FFI was able to designate ‘high conservation value forests’ and strengthen community ownership over local forests by upgrading community customary forests to a legal recognition of a Village Forest. The project helps communities secure land tenure for Forest preservation, Indonesia 20 community forests, covering over 60,000 hectares of land and beneﬁtting approximately 25,000 people. 36 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainable Fisheries A major challenge to marine biodiversity and Meeting the SDGs food security is widespread unsustainable ﬁshing practices. The Food and Agriculture Goal 2: Organization (FAO) estimates that 11 of End hunger, achieve food security the world’s 15 major ﬁshing areas face this challenge. The and improve nutrition, and promote challenge is to keep ﬁsh production on the rise, while at the sustainable agriculture same time allowing overﬁshed species to recover. Goal 12: The Coral Triangle, centre of tropical marine biodiversity Ensure sustainable consumption and hosting one of the most diverse marine habitats, sits within production patterns the waters of Indonesia and Malaysia. It is home to over 3,000 species of ﬁsh and more than half of the world’s coral reefs. Goal 14: Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, With over 130 million people living along the coastlines, seas and marine resources for sustainable ﬁshing is a central aspect of local activities, which is being development threatened by current levels and methods of harvesting ﬁsh, imperilling fragile reefs and posing a material threat to community livelihoods. A coordinated approach to promoting sustainable ﬁshing practices and ﬁsh recovery zones which are supported by policy and market incentives, can help to reverse the decline. RARE Conservation (Indonesia) RARE developed the ‘Fish Forever’ programme to promote sustainable near shore ﬁsheries while improving livelihoods, protecting habitats and enhancing coastal resilience to climate change. To protect key habitats where ﬁsh stocks can rebuild, Fish Forever establishes spatial property rights for ﬁshing areas known as Territorial Use Rights for Fishers (or ‘TURF’) reserves, where there are established no-take zones. The pilot funded by the Lundin Foundation enabled RARE to expand this programme in three locations in Indonesia: Karimunjawa National Park (Central Java), Demak (Central Java), and Teluk Mayalibit (West Papua). The Foundation’s support also helped to develop a clear pathway to scale. Through close partnerships with local governments, customary leadership and community groups, RARE has designed TURF reserves models for each pilot site and are developing local management bodies to provide oversight on the TURF reserves. This is a signiﬁcant step in structuring long term ﬁsheries management as it provides formal recognition of ownership of ﬁsheries for the 4,000 ﬁshermen in the pilot sites. RARE is also working closely with entrepreneurs and ﬁshermen in Karimunjawa National Park to develop seaweed farming businesses and improve quality of fresh ﬁsh, a means to provide economic incentives to local ﬁshermen to adhere to the TURF reserves and adopt improved management practices. Sustainable fishing, Indonesia Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 37 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Data Health and Safety1 2015 Fatalities Employees 0 Contractors 0 Total 0 Lost time incidents Employees 1 Contractors 8 Total 9 Restricted work incidents Employees 0 Contractors 0 Total 0 Medical treatment incidents Employees 1 Contractors 9 Total 10 Lost time incident rate (million hours worked) Employees 0.78 Contractors 2.08 Total 1.76 Total recordable incident rate (million hours worked) Employees 1.55 Contractors 4.43 Total 3.71 Exposure hours Employees 1,286,396 Contractors 3,841,243 Total 5,127,639 Near misses with high potential 6 Contractor screening using HSE criteria2 New contractors (%) 100 38 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Environment 2015 UNPLANNED RELEASES TO SEA OR LAND Oil spills (>0.1m3) Number 0 Vol. (m3) n/a Chemical spills (>0.1m3)3 Number 6 Vol. (m3)3 59.88 Hydrocarbon leaks (>0.1 kg/s) Number 0 Mass (kg) n/a EMISSIONS Direct GHG (CO2e, tonnes) – CDP Scope 1 108,996 Indirect GHG, CO2e (tonnes) – CDP Scope 2 1,735 Other indirect GHG (CO2e) (tonnes) – CDP Scope 3 143,823 GHG emissions intensity (CO2e) (kg/boe) 12.2 NOX (tonnes) 499 SOX (tonnes) 45 Flared hydrocarbons (m3) 19,629,132 Vented hydrocarbons (tonnes) Methane 482.81 nmVOC 470.19 Energy consumption (MWh) – CDP Scope 1+2 145,392 Renewable energy consumption (MWh) – CDP Scope 1+2 5 WATER Freshwater withdrawal4 Surface water (m3) 0 Ground water (m3) 3,756 Rainwater (m3) 100 Produced water (m3) 1,841,535 Disposal of produced water Reinjected water into the reservoir (m3) (France) 1,026,818 Percentage of total water volume disposed (%) 55.8 Injection into disposal wells (m3) (France) 562,495 Percentage of total water volume disposed (%) 30.5 3 5 Discharge to sea (m ) (Norway, Malaysia) 252,222 Percentage of total water volume disposed (%) 13.7 Hydrocarbons discharged to sea within produced water (m3)6 4.2 Total (m3) 1,841,535 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 39 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Data Environment (continued) 2015 WASTE Drill waste using aqueous drilling ﬂuid (by disposal method) Onshore disposal to controlled sites Drill cuttings (tonnes) 291 Water based mud (tonnes) 15,856 Offshore disposal with pre-treatment Drill cuttings (tonnes) 13,128 Water based mud (tonnes) 59,561 Drill waste using non-aqueous drilling ﬂuid (by disposal method)7 Onshore disposal to controlled sites Drill cuttings (tonnes) 2,049 Oil based mud (tonnes) 6,841 Offshore disposal with pre-treatment Drill cuttings (tonnes) 2,863 Water based mud (tonnes) 0 People 2015 Employees Total8 589 Employee turnover (%) 6.5 New hire rate (%) 2.2 Gender diversity Number of men 420 Number of women 169 Women in workforce (%) 29 Women in management (%) 20 Women in senior management (%) 19 Women in the Board of Directors (%) 38 Employees by age groups (%) < 30 years 8 30–50 years 60 > 50 years 32 Incidents of discrimination 0 Society 2015 Disputes associated with operations 0 Actual impacts on local communities 0 Corporate donations (USD) Sustainable investments 33,300 Contribution to the Lundin Foundation 785,200 Total 818,500 Contributions to initiatives (USD) United Nations Global Compact 5,000 Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 35,000 CDP 3,440 Total 43,440 40 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Anti-corruption 2015 Communication of anti-corruption policy Board of Directors (%) 100 Employees (%) 100 Training on anti-corruption Board of Directors (%) 100 Employees (%) 87 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption Number of incidents 0 Impact on employees 0 Impact on contractor relations 0 Legal cases 0 Report to the EITI Norway Compliance 2015 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes Number 0 Value (USD) n/a Environmental ﬁnes Number 0 Value (USD) n/a Non-monetary sanctions Number 0 Environmental non-monetary sanctions Number 0 1 IOGP deﬁnition and methodology. 2 We report on main contractors which are determined based on the scope of work, contract duration, contract value and/or relevant risk factors. 3 The volume represents the total amount of the spill of which the chemical component represents only a small percentage. 4 Quantities of freshwater utilised during onshore operations (France), excluding municipal water consumption for ofﬁces. 5 Produced water is only released to sea if the water quality conforms with national regulation. 6 Volume of hydrocarbons discharged within produced water corresponds to an average of 14.1 parts per million (ppm) of oil in water, which is below the OSPAR Convention’s 30 ppm threshold recommendation. 7 Prior to any offshore disposal of non-aqueous drilling ﬂuid, drilled cuttings are treated to reduce the amount of residual oil, to ensure that levels are below regulatory deﬁned amounts. 8 Permanent and ﬁxed term employees paid directly by the Company. Note: Lundin Petroleum sold its Indonesian business effectively as of October 2015, with completion expected during the second quarter of 2016. Therefore, we include relevant sustainability data such as HSE Key Performance Indicators until the effective date of the sale and number of employees as of 31 December 2015. Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 41 GRI Index Lundin Petroleum’s 2015 GRI index, in accordance with the GRI G4 “core” level, provides references to the GRI G4 indicators the Company reports on. Standard Disclosure Description Reference GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and analysis G4–1 Statement from the CEO SR 2 Strategy and analysis G4–3 Name of the organisation AR 51 G4–4 Primary brands, products, and services SR 3–4 G4–5 Location of headquarters AR 51 G4–6 Name of countries where the organisation operates SR 3–4 G4–7 Ownership and legal form AR 51 G4–8 Markets served SR 3–4 G4–9 Scale of the reporting organisation AR 71 G4–10 Number of employees SR 16 G4–11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SR 18 G4–12 Description of supply chain SR 3–4 G4–13 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period SR 16 G4–14 Precautionary approach or principle SR 26 G4–15 Subscription to externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives SR 33 G4–16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations SR 33 Identiﬁed material aspects and boundaries G4–17 List of entities included in ﬁnancial statement AR 73 G4–18 Process for deﬁning the report content SR 6–7 G4–19 Material Aspects (referred to as material issues) SR 6–7 G4–20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation SR 6–7 G4–21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation SR 6–7 G4–22 Restatement of information n/a G4–23 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods n/a Stakeholder engagement G4–24 Stakeholder groups engaged SR 6 and 33 G4–25 Basis for selection of stakeholders SR 33 G4–26 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 33 G4–27 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement SR 33 Report proﬁle G4–28 Reporting period SR 1 G4–29 Previous reporting date n/a G4–30 Reporting cycle SR 6–7 G4–31 Contact point SR 45 G4–32 GRI option, Content Index, and references SR 6 and 42 G4–33 External Assurance n/a Governance G4–34 Governance structure SR 10–11 Ethics and integrity G4–56 Code of conduct webite SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Economic performance & proﬁtability of operations G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach AR 90–95 G4–EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 79–89 G4–OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production AR 18, 80, 91 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach G4–EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation SR 6–7 Water G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 28 G4–EN8 Water withdrawal by source SR 39 G4–EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of water SR 28 Biodiversity G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 26 G4–EN11 Operational site in or near protected areas SR 26–27 G4–EN12 Signiﬁcant impact on biodiversity in protected areas SR 26 42 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Standard Disclosure Description Reference SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES (continued) CATEGORY: ECONOMIC (continued) Emissions G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 30 G4–EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) SR 39 G4–EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) SR 39 G4–EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) SR 39 G4–EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity SR 39 G4–EN21 NOx, SOx, and other signiﬁcant air emissions SR 39 G4–OG6 Volume of ﬂared and vented hydrocarbon SR 39 Compliance G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 14 G4–EN29 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SR 41 Supplier environmental assessement G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 23 G4–EN32 New suppliers (referred to as contractor) that were screened using environmental criteria SR 38 Efﬂuents and waste G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 28 G4–EN22 Water discharge SR 39 G4–OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water SR 39 G4–EN24 Number and volume of signiﬁcant spills SR 39 G4–OG7 Drilling waste SR 40 Decommissioning G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 28 G4–OG11 Decommissioned sites and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned SR 28 CATEGORY: SOCIAL Employment G4–DMA Generic disclosures on management approach SR 16 G4–LA1 Employee hires and turnover SR 40 Occupational health and safety G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 20–21 G4–LA6 Type of injuries and injury rates SR 21 and 38 Diversity and equal opportunity G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 16–17 G4–LA12 Diversity in composition of governance bodies and among employees SR 17 and 38 Supplier assessment for labour practices G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 23 G4–LA14 New suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria SR 38 Non-discrimination G4–HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken SR 40 Human rights G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 32 G4–HR9 Human rights reviews or impact assessments SR 32 Local communities G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 33 G4–SO2 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities SR 40 G4–OG10 Signiﬁcant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples SR 40 Anti-corruption G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 14 G4–SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures SR 41 G4–SO5 Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken SR 41 Compliance G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 14 G4–SO8 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SR 41 Emergency preparedness G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 24 Asset integrity and process safety G4–DMA Disclosures on management approach SR 25 G4–OG13 Process safety events (1) n/a (1) The information is currently unavailable at Group level. It will be reported in the 2016 Sustainability Report. AR: Annual Report SR: Sustainability Report Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 43 Forward-looking statements Certain statements made and information contained herein constitute “forward-looking information” (within the meaning of applicable securities legislation). Such statements and information (together, “forward-looking statements”) relate to future events, including the Company’s future performance, business prospects or opportunities. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to estimates of reserves and/or resources, future production levels, future capital expenditures and their allocation to exploration and development activities, future drilling and other exploration and development activities. Ultimate recovery of reserves or resources are based on forecasts of future results, estimates of amounts not yet determinable and assumptions of management. All statements other than statements of historical fact may be forward-looking statements. Statements concerning proven and probable reserves and resource estimates may also be deemed to constitute forward-looking statements and reﬂect conclusions that are based on certain assumptions that the reserves and resources can be economically exploited. Any statements that express or involve discussions with respect to predictions, expectations, beliefs, plans, projections, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance (often, but not always, using words or phrases such as “seek”, “anticipate”, “plan”, “continue”, “estimate”, “expect”, “may”, “will”, “project”, “predict”, “potential”, “targeting”, “intend”, “could”, “might”, “should”, “believe” and similar expressions) are not statements of historical fact and may be “forward-looking statements”. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results or events to differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements. No assurance can be given that these expectations and assumptions will prove to be correct and such forward-looking statements should not be relied upon. These statements speak only as on the date of the information and the Company does not intend, and does not assume any obligation, to update these forward-looking statements, except as required by applicable laws. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties relating to, among other things, operational risks (including exploration and development risks), productions costs, availability of drilling equipment, reliance on key personnel, reserve estimates, health, safety and environmental issues, legal risks and regulatory changes, competition, geopolitical risk, and ﬁnancial risks. These risks and uncertainties are described in more detail under the heading “Risks and Risk Management” and elsewhere in the Company’s annual report. Readers are cautioned that the foregoing list of risk factors should not be construed as exhaustive. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forwardlooking statements are expressly qualiﬁed by this cautionary statement. Lundin Petroleum References to “Lundin Petroleum” or “the Company” pertain to the corporate group in which Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) (company registration number 556610–8055) is the Parent Company or to Lundin Petroleum AB (publ), depending on the context. 44 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015 Tell Us What You Think Your feedback is valued We welcome any questions, comments or suggestions you might have to this report and our performance. Please send your feedback to: info@lundin.ch i Stay up to date with Lundin Petroleum visiting our website www.lundin-petroleum.com Follow us on social media Printed by Exakta Print and Landsten Reklam, Sweden 2016. Exakta Print is FSC® and ISO 14001 certified and is committed to all round excellence in its environmental performance. The paper used for this report contains material sourced from responsibly managed forests, certified in accordance with the FSC® and is manufactured by Exakta Print to ISO 14001 international standards. Corporate Head Office Lundin Petroleum AB (publ) Hovslagargatan 5 SE-111 48 Stockholm, Sweden T +46-8-440 54 50 F +46-8-440 54 59 E info@lundin.ch W lundin-petroleum.com 46 Lundin Petroleum Sustainability Report 2015
