Communication on Progress in 2015 June 2016 Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 2 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT ANTIHUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR ENVIRONMENT CORRUPTION Principle 1: Principle 3: Principle 7: Principle 10:  Businesses should  Businesses should  Businesses should  Businesses should support and respect uphold the freedom of support a work against the protection of association and the precautionary corruption in all its internationally effective recognition of approach to forms, including proclaimed human the right to collective environmental extortion and bribery. rights; and bargaining; challenges; Principle 2: Principle 4: Principle 8:  Make sure that they  The elimination of all  Undertake initiatives to are not complicit in forms of forced and promote greater human rights abuses. compulsory labour; environmental Principle 5: responsibility; and  The effective abolition Principle 9: of child labour; and  Encourage the Principle 6: development and diffusion of  The elimination of environmentally discrimination in friendly technologies. respect of employment and occupation. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 Webhelp overview Page 5 2 Human rights Page 9 3 Labour Page 22 4 Environment Page 39 5 Anti-corruption Page 47 Communication on progress 2015 4 1 WEBHELP OVERVIEW 1 Webhelp overview 2 3 4 5 VISION AND VALUES Become a worldwide benchmark company in the field of customer relationship management, recognised for its innovation and high quality of services ENGINEERING NEW CUSTOMER EXPERIENCES COMMITMENT  We honour the promises made to colleagues and customers.  Working as one team towards a common success takes UNITY precedence over personal interest.  Acknowledgement of individual contribution is essential to RECOGNITION ensure our collective success.  We work with a positive attitude, leading by example. We treat INTEGRITY others the way we would expect to be treated.  By striving to go beyond their expectations, we continually seek WOW-EFFECT to amaze the people we work with. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 WEBHELP, A STRONG PARTNER FOR OUR CLIENTS #3 81 30 000 + IN EUROPE Netherlands Germany United Kingdom Diemen Berlin Enschede Flensburg Ede Kiel INTERNATIONAL Parchim CENTERS EMPLOYEES Glasgow Groningen CUSTOMER Derby Tilburg Dormund In 21 countries RELATIONSHIP Dearne Valley Zoetermeer Czech Rep. MANAGEMENT Warrington Poland Falkirk Prague SOLUTIONS Dunoon Warsaw PROVIDER Greenock Rothesay Diegem Belgium Kilmarnock Romania Vienna Bucharest Galati India 500 Ploiesti France Hollabrunn Iasi Gurgaon Austria (Dehli) Italy Algeria Compiègne Caen Alger CUSTOMERS Vitré Yozgat Turkey Milano Bingöl Montceau les Mines Saint-Avold Istanbul Gray Fontenay le Comte Switzerland Morocco Geneva Dübendorf Rabat Fès 725 Agadir Surinam Salé Paramaribo Kenitra Meknès M€ Portugal Madagascar Lisbon Antananarivo OF TURNOVER (MOST IMPORTANT Cape Town Johannesburg GROWTH IN THE SECTOR FROM 2002 TO 2012) Webhelp South Africa Copyright © 2015 All rights reserved WEBHELP, A STRONG PARTNER FOR YOU CLIENTS 1 Webhelp overview 2 3 4 5 WEBHELP GLOBAL PRESENCE Cluster Lines of Cluster FR Cluster UK Cluster NL Cluster Turkey D/A/CH Business France Romania Webhelp Germany Payment Morocco United Kingdom Poland Services Netherlands (WPS) Belgium South Africa Austria Turkey Suriname Algeria India Switzerland Xtrasource Madagascar Eastern Europe WESS Portugal Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 8 2 HUMAN RIGHTS 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 MAIN WEBHELP COMMITMENTS TO HUMAN RIGHTS “Label de Responsabilité Sociale” certified since 2009 (Social Responsibility Label) – LRS – renewed in June 2015 Signing of the Charter of Diversity 2006 Signing of numerous agreements relating to the employment of vulnerable groups (employment of young and senior populations, disabled people, long term unemployed people...) Formalised training paths for all people to ensure their employability Partnered with local employment institutions Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS WEBHELP FOUNDATION : SHARED Cluster FR  SHARED, launched in 2015, with the effective support of “Fondation de France”, CREATION OBJECTIFS Launched December 2015 Main objective : Promote social and professional insertion, either S olidarity through a financial supply, or through know-how transmission H umanitarian A id Secondary objectives : R ecognition • Emergency Action (natural E nvironment catastrophe…) D iversity • To help employees facing difficult situations… Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 11 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS PROMOTION OF DIVERSITY AND EQUITY PART 1 Webhelp considers it essential that all candidates or employees receive the same, fair treatment. The diversity of employees and cultures found in Webhelp are a significant resource. Respect is essential to a harmonious working climate in which employees’ rights are respected and their dignity unquestionable. • The company’s policy is to deal with every employee without consideration for ethnic origin, colour, religious beliefs, sex and sexual preferences, age, nationality or any other personal characteristic that is protected under law. • Our recruitment teams undergo non-discrimination trainings  The company encourages all forms of social dialogue with employee representative organisations and each of its employees.  We have displayed a prevention of psycho-social risks process, targeting specifically stressful and harassment issues.  Many actions have been launched against stress, such as stretching or massage therapy, specific training modules are also available to respond to this issue. Cluster FR  Regarding internal promotion, Assessment Center are used to guarantee unbiased promotions.  In Morocco, Webhelp has implemented an on-line system, called “Remontées RH”. All employees have the opportunity to alert the HR Director / senior HR management directly, without involving the “management”. It offers employees, who feel harassed, protection from possible retaliation . An updated version of this tool was launched in 2015 : the improvements lies mostly in the easier tracking of actions implemented and in a more global view of situations. o Although in other Cluster FR countries, this is not done through an IT tool, employees are still provided the opportunity to report difficulties to the site director or the HR senior management. RESULTS, CLUSTER FR: All employees follow the e-learning class on harassment. Webhelp 100% of people involved in recruitment process follow the e-learning class on non-discrimation. Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 12 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS PROMOTION OF DIVERSITY AND EQUITY PART 2 Cluster NL  We established an internal complaints handling committee for aggression, discrimination and sexual harassment. This committee is formed of representatives from HR, the works council and two employees.  Also, an independent counselor has been appointed for all harassment complaints. Cluster UK  A ‘Dignity at Work’ policy has been established and covers Harassment, Bullying and Discrimination. The policy outlines how employees can report such instances and also outlines what responsibilities are placed upon management. All employees are required to read and sign this and other policies on an annual basis.  Recruitment procedures are designed to reach eligible applicants from all sections of the community and we offer pathways into the organisation for the following key groups of people; • School leavers • Semi-retired/retired • Long term unemployed • Parents & Carers • Graduates & Veterans Webhelp Payment Services • WPS has a Code of conduct which covers the respect of human rights, prevents acts of discrimination or harassment, applies a fair human resources policy that complies with the law. This Code of conduct is a commitment from the management and from all WPS employees Webhelp Communication on progress 2015 Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés 13 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS ENHANCED DISABILITY POLICY PART 1 Our Webhelp sites are designed and built in line with local building regulations and specifications that make provision for being disability and wheelchair friendly. Work stations are designed to be ergonomically practical and disability friendly when relevant. Should any adjustments need to be made for special conditions, these are made to accommodate all needs within reason as not to affect other employees in the surrounding area. Cluster FR  We signed a partnership agreement with AGEFIPH, in 2015, a major player in the employment of people with disabilities in France. Our goal is to significantly advance and harmonise our practices within all of our sites. The signing of this Convention allows us to benefit from the expertise of AGEFIPH in improving our daily practices. An action plan has been launched that addresses various themes such as, recruitment, on-boarding and the follow-ups on disabled individuals.  For years now, (French speaking countries : France, Morocco, Algeria, Madagascar, Belgium, Romania), we have been conducting awareness-raising actions, specifically around the International Disability Day. Last year, the campaign was linked to our moto : “Beyond the Limits”, which focused on individuals who suffered from a disability, yet were nevertheless highly successful (artists, multinational company founder…).  In Morocco, we initiated a new follow-up process for our disabled colleagues, allowing us to set up individual action plans to improve their situations within the company. An open-door event was set up on the 3rd of December 2015: In cooperation with a local association for individuals with Down Syndrome, an exhibit was set up displaying paintings created by members of this group. It was an opportunity for our staff to meet the young artists, as well as to buy their artwork.  Webhelp Romania organised a Craft Sale displaying good handmade by disabled individuals. Cluster Turkey • We collaborate with several countrywide and local disabled persons associations for example, Disabled Persons Association of Turkey and local municipalities’ disabled person service centers. We care to recruit disabled persons to constitute at least 3% of our total workforce. • Contrary to other Turkish companies, all our disabled colleagues are encouraged to join us on-site, rather than work from Webhelp home, to truly feel like they are a part of the Webhelp team Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 14 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS Awarenessraising campaign Displaying famous individuals who have disabilities An art exhibition by young artists with Down Syndrome Displayed in Morocco sites DISABILITY AWARENESS DAY, DECEMBER 3RD 2015 Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 15 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHT LAWS UK cluster South Africa Human Right South African Act/Law upon which Webhelp SA People Policies are based Right to fair labour practices Constitution and Labour Relations Act Right not to be unfairly dismissed because you have HIV Labour Relations Act Right not to be unfairly discriminated against because based on your HIV status Employment Equity Act Right not to be tested for HIV unless your employer has applied to the Labour Court for authorisation Employment Equity Act Right to a safe working environment Occupational Health and Safety Act Right to compensation if infected with HIV or any other disease at work Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Disease Act (COIDA) Right to certain basic standards of employment, including 6 weeks of paid sick leave over a 3-year Basic Conditions of Employment Act (BCEA) period Right to no unfair discrimination in giving employee benefits Medical Schemes Act Right to privacy about your HIV status at work Common Law right • The table above represents the Human Rights that are applicable within SA and the provision that Webhelp SA makes in it’s People Policies and practices – all of our People Policies are aligned to the Labour Relations Act and are underpinned and executed in line with both the SA Code of Good Practice and the Basic Conditions of Employment Act. • Furthermore, the labour tribunal body within SA to which 95% of all labour disputes are referred, the Commission for Conciliation, Midiation and Arbitration (CCMA), views discrimination in any way, shape or form as completely unacceptable and as a result poses the harshest penalty on employers on such acts should they be ruled againstup to 24 months employee compensationWebhelp SA has never been deemed to have discriminated against any employee in this forum and has a robust and fair internal process to mitigate this risk. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 16 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART 1 It is important for Webhelp to extend our every-day work activities and make a difference to our surrounding communities. Our Webhelp sites are proud to support numerous charities and local actions. Following are just a few of out many actions we’ve committed to across our geographies: Cluster NL  We support a number of charities such as the fundraisers for Dutch Cancer Society, Dutch Brain Foundation, Children Cancer Free Foundation, Dutch Heart Foundation and Dutch food bank and animal welfare.  The Dutch government has implemented the so-called “Participatiewet” and “Wet banenafspraak”. The main goal of this legislation is to stimulate employers to hire (more) disadvantaged people. Municipalities and social institutions such as the UWV (who are responsible for the implementation) reach out to employers to support them in reaching their goals. In this respect, Webhelp has started a co-operation with UWV to help disadvantaged people to find a job at Webhelp Cluster UK  We work with the UK Government via the ‘Access to Work’ programme to ensure that reasonable adjustments are made to working environments, allowing those with disabilities to have successful careers  All employees are entitled to a Free Eye Test and a contribution can also be made for Vision Aids.  We have chosen 'Help for Heroes’ as our Charity Partner this year. Help for Heroes are a national network to support wounded veterans and military personnel, and their families. They have a number of recovery centres who help those who have suffered from life-changing injuries. Throughout the year, our Engagement Ambassadors will be holding a number of events to help raise money for this great charity. Cluster Turkey  We carefully strive to contribute the upmost to the society which it is a part of. Taking charge of the full educational costs of 15 underprivileged children in collaboration with TOÇEV foundation.  In January 2016, a blood donation campaign was launched in collaboration with the Turkish Red Crescent simultaneously running in all site locations and became one of the largest corporate donors ever with 408 Webhelp donations. Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 17 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 Webhelp India – Taking part in the Community SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART 2 Cluster UK India Smile Foundation • Smile Foundation is a national level development organisation directly benefitting over 400,000 children and their families every year • Webhelp India raised 50K INR for the Nepal Relief Fund, helping those affected by the Nepal Earthquake. • To further support the Smile Foundation, Webhelp India raised over 100K INR to support the Education of under privileged children. • Webhelp Directors took part in a Cooking Competition with other companies in a bid to raise funds. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 18 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 Webhelp India – Taking part in the Community SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PART 3 (Cluster UK India continued..) Vidya • VIDYA is a non-profit NGO, charitable organization that specializes in the education and empowerment of less-privileged children, youth and women through working with them at an individual level. • David Turner, CEO, visited a local school in Vidya and was impressed by the talent of the local school. Webhelp donated 200K INR to help Vidya achieve its goals • In addition to the financial contributions, our Operations team spent sometime with the children, giving gifts and sharing the success stories of their colleagues. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 19 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILTY POLICY Throughout our countries, new CSR actions are being implemented to ensure we’re continuously developing our capabilities. Below are a few examples of new initiatives that were launched in 2015. Cluster FR • New CSR governance and committee was developed, formed of nominated managers to be high-level CSR contacts for each country • They meet on a quarterly basis to discuss interdisciplinary aspects, engage in cross-country exchanges, and as a result, lead to strategic development by working on specific areas of action • One outcome is to redesign the CSR policy in 2016 to gain more effectiveness towards all company employees Webhelp Payment Services  Launched a Corporate Social Responsibility policy. Through this policy, WPS is acknowledging its impact on society, its environment and its workforce and has decided to act RESPONSIBLY in order to achieve SUSTAINABLE progress. As part of its CSR policy, Webhelp Payment Services has identified 4 key pillars which have been transformed into concrete commitments: o A socially responsible and sustainable customer relationship based on mutual respect and long term relationships, o An employee relationship which promotes individual fulfilment and collective performance, o A responsible financing, with governance to promote long-term company development, o An environmentally responsible strategy to reduce the impact of our activities on the environment and promote local charitable projects.  The CSR policy at WPS is a policy focused firmly on progress, based on the principle of continuous improvement. WPS has a steering Committee which is in charge of validating the annual plan of actions proposed by the CSR committee. The first CSR plan of actions will be realised on 2016. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 20 1 2 Human rights 2 3 4 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON HUMAN RIGHTS ESTABLISHMENT OF A CHARTER SIGNED BY WEBHELP MAIN SUPPLIERS. IT ENCAPSULATES PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT  When signing the Webhelp supplier charter, the supplier company expressly undertakes to:  Respect the national labor laws including statutory working hours and overtime,  Be fully compliant with international norms,  Declare all of its staff to collector social organisations,  Ensure the effective and on time payment of social security contributions. Provide, at Webhelp’s request, certificates proving such payments for the previous calendar period.  Respect the fundamental rights of the human, refuse any form of discrimination, ensure fair and dignified attitude towards all employees,  Enforce decent working conditions,  Fight against corruption and ensure Webhelp’s procurement practices.  Share information of demand of the services ordered.  Use its best efforts to preserve the environment and introduce sustainable development (energy saving, waste management). Cluster UK • Committed to protecting the welfare of not only it’s own employees, but that of Contractors also. Therefore all contractors complete a Permit to Work upon arriving at the site and they are also given a Health & Safety and Environment induction. • In South Africa, in line with recent labour law amendments, we ensure that all of our employees, whether contractors or permanent, enjoy the same working relationships and equal opportunities. We adhere to the principles of the ‘Right to Work’ framework, and once this has been determined, we ensure that the human and labour rights of all employees are both considered and upheld in line with the practice of equality Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 21 3 LABOUR Communication on progress 2015 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 MAIN WEBHELP COMMITMENTS FOR LABOUR  Negotiation and signing  Pleasant work of various agreements conditions, state of the relating to working art buildings, working conditions (male / spaces of high quality female equality, freedom designed for advisors of expression of employees, management or annualisation of working time).  Respect for the culture  Various social benefits of the country we’re in. including medical For instance, in Morocco, insurance, nursery during the Ramadan, facilities, employees “ftour” (breaking of transportation, fitness the Ramadan fast) is centers, rest areas, offered to all employees different incentives and that are working in the team building events. time slot Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR PLANNING MORE RESPONSIVE TO THE NEEDS OF EMPLOYEES PART 1 Our employees, and their satisfaction within Webhelp, is very important to us. A considerable amount of work has been put into place to reach the expectations of our people. There is a constant focus and development toward delivering the best possible working conditions and evolving our processes to suit their needs. Throughout our countries, practices have been put into place to increase employee satisfaction, such as; Cluster FR  First, we have settled a system that allows employees to swap a day off by making requests for exchanges.  In France, many actions have been undertaken regarding the planning to meet the constraints of production and introduce flexibility in the management of schedules :  Ideally, schedules are sent to all advisors by email at least 2/3 weeks in advance. This period cannot be shortened to less than 7 days.  After a trial period, the “Desiderata system” is in place through Morocco and Romania. This system allows the advisor to rank up to 3 time slots among a panel and to be granted their preferred time slot if available.  Since 2015, the possibility was also given to our agents to access their planning on-line with their smart phone or digital tablet. This is a real asset in a work life balance perspective. RESULTS, CLUSTER FR : Webhelp All advisors have early access to the planning and the possibility to ask for modifications. This access is now possible through digital devices ! Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 24 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR PLANNING MORE RESPONSIVE TO THE NEEDS OF EMPLOYEES PART 2 Cluster NL  In a number of outbound teams, Webhelp Nederland has introduced self-scheduling, which means employees can complete the planning schedule themselves. 86% of the employees gave this availability tool (which creates a lot of flexibility) a positive rating  The scheduling tool will be upgraded to offer new features to our employees, including being able to review their schedule, asking for time off etc. directly from their smartphone, etc…  Work@Home has successfully been applied in one of the larger customer teams in the Netherlands and we are currently assessing if this can be introduced elsewhere Cluster UK  Employees can access our workforce management system giving them the ability to check their upcoming shifts, access holiday information and request to swap a shift. This system is regularly updated to ensure the needs of our employees are met. It also acts as a real-time, two way communication tool between agents and managers.  Across the UK Cluster, our HR system allows employees to view, request and manage their holiday entitlements. It also gives employees the opportunity to assess their working environment and request changes/consultations to improve their comfort whilst at work. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 25 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR NEW WAYS OF WORKING. We not only focus on adapting our processes to suit employees needs, but we also encourage new initiatives for all employees. Below are a few examples from 2015 projects that aimed to do just that… Cluster FR  New initiatives have been launched to experience new ways of working, especially related to “Liberated company” practices.  In Vitré, one project is experiencing teleworking.  In Caen, a “Free your Spirits” project is launched in late 2015 : the employees are requested to design a new way of working. Webhelp Payment Services • In WPS France, we launched HR Coffees every trimester in order to exchange with employees on an HR topic. All employees from WPS France are invited to participate to these HR Coffees. • The HR team talks about the topic for 40 minutes, then the HR team answers to employees questions. In 2015, WPS France organised 3 HR coffees on WPS corporate social responsibility / the vocational training reform / The establishment of professional interviews. • In 2016, WPS will extend these kind of meetings for other topics to develop internal communication. Webhelp RESULTS : New initiatives… to be continued ! Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 26 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR REINFORCEMENT OF HR COMMUNITIES  HR communities have been implemented to discuss and harmonise our processes. Teams meet regularly to share information, best practices and determine the actions to be put in place to continuously improve the quality of HR management. It is an opportunity to bring together both the human resources managers of sites and the heads of HR projects around cross-functional issues.  To support our collaborative work, we have created a shared IT space to put our shared documents. In early 2016, the launch of the new company collaborative and social network, called WISE, has allowed us to give an on-line collaborative area to this HR community.  Local HR Teams meet regularly to discuss a number of corporate initiatives alongside any challenges. This allows them to collaborate and continuously improve the way they work together, and alongside Operations and Support teams, to ensure best practice.  These teams work closely with all levels of the business, delivering a first rate service, guiding and empowering managers to engage and communicate to their teams. RESULTS : Webhelp A systematic pooling of our best practices Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 27 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR TUTORSHIP PROGRAM Cluster FR  This campaign was launched in 2014 and renewed in 2015 : a tutor is assigned to every new disabled worker. These tutors are trained by governmental authority (complete training program: 14 hours) (site of Compiègne)  For each employees that is under 22 years old, an adviser is named within the framework of the generation agreement. They are welcome by a Webhelp University Adviser with 2 personal interviews (during the integration process, in attendance of their manager and after 6 month spent in the company).  Training new tutors within the framework of alternating work with training program (Training BTS Management of Business Unit (MUC) and Negotiation and Client Relations (NRC). (Site of Vitré)  Training of tutors within the framework of the generation agreement : a new session of training is to be launched in June 2016. (Site of Saint AVOLD) Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 28 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR TRAINING Training is a key pillar of our value proposition and our performance. We intend to give our employees the best training from their 1st day at Webhelp and throughout their career path. To ensure long-lasting impact of our training, we are always eager to leverage latest technologies and practices. Cluster FR • In 2015, most of the team leaders were given management training through a serious game (Lead the way!). This up-to-date technique is a real bonus for our team leaders, most of them being Y-generation, technology driven people. • We have re-engineered our training approach: we try to respond to individual needs by thinking less “function training path” and more “competences range”. Hence, the Webhelp University (WHU) has redesigned its catalogue through this prism. • A bi-annual ROI of our training program is implemented in order to make sure we make the better use of the financial contribution obtained from public subsidy for example FSE (European Social Fund) or from the professionalisation actions (Statutory training entitlement or professionalisation period). • A program of recognising and governmental validation of professional experience has been implemented in order to help employees to capitalise and secure their career path. Example of training who were concerned: BTS MUC, BTS NRC, Bac Pro CRCD. (Sites of Compiègne, Montceau, St Avold, Vitré) Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 29 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK • Webhelp identifies, trains and uses necessary staff and competent resources to drive Health & Safety practices on each location. We allocate responsibilities, such as First Aid, Fire Marshall and Health & Safety Representative • Webhelp trains some employees in the First Aid Course. Enough employees are certified to ensure that at least one is always present on-site. • Many of our countries have been equipped with defibrillators and in 2016 their presence will continue to grow across additional sites • Below are some examples of the detailed health and safety actions implemented across our countries Cluster UK • Over 60 Health, Safety and Environmental Champions (HSE Champs) across our UK sites, all of which completed a 2 day training course. More recently, these HSE Champs were given the opportunity to undertake a Resource Efficiency on-line training course, to further develop their knowledge and skills. Cluster FR Launched Heath and Safety campaigns on-sites: o Romania carried out actions to prevent smoking o Morocco organised detections for breath and uterus cancer o A campaign on ergonomy at work was launched, along with relaxation workshops. Health Webhelp Payment Services leaflet describing good • Employees are offered 30 minutes of Taï Chi per week practices Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 30 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR PROTECTING THE HEALTH & SAFETY OF OUR STAFF Cluster UK  We achieved multiple international standards (ISO or OHSAS) accreditations. One of which is OHSAS 180001, ensuring we adhere to a high standard of health & safety management within our organisation.  We were also involved in a programme call ‘Healthy Working Lives’ (HWL) which aims to create safer, healthier and more motivated workforce.  We accurately record accidents and incidents and convert this data to create reporting on Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) and Accident Incident Rate (AIR), as shown below. We can access this report on-line to increase the ease in which people can report accidents in an objective to develop more robust and reactive improvement actions. RESULTS :  HWL – Kilmarnock site has been awarded Gold Level, with two other sites being awarded Webhelp Bronze Level Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 31 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR RESPONSIBLE POLICIES TO PROTECT AND ENHANCE FAIR EMPLOYMENT PART 1 Throughout our countries’ policies there are actions put in place to ensure our employees are protected, secure and comfortable at work. It’s a matter we take very seriously and following are just a few examples of such elements: Cluster UK We implemented a set of Polices that protect employees from discrimination and ensure that their career can be shaped around the demands of a modern world, whilst protecting them from discrimination. Career Break Policy For those employees who may wish to take an extended period of time off work with the possibility of returning to work afterwards. (For example, it’s recognized people may want to pursue a University course or have child care responsibilities). Equality and Diversity Policy Committed to ensuring that all decisions about employment and development are made with integrity and based purely on merit. The company recognises that nurturing high performance through development of a diverse workplace is essential. Parental Leave, Paternity and Maternity Leave Policies The policies in this section are intended to ensure that parents of children under 18 (Parental Leave) or newborns (Pat and Mat leave), have the ability to care for their children whilst not harming their career prospects within Cluster UK. Stress Management Policy Recognises that stress may be a problem in the work place and is committed to reducing it. Stress is not a sign of weakness. The policy acknowledges that it may not be possible, but it strives to control harmful and unnecessary Webhelp levels of stress. Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 32 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR RESPONSIBLE POLICIES TO PROTECT AND ENHANCE FAIR EMPLOYMENT PART 2 Cluster UK South Africa Performance Management Policy Performance management is a continuous process of developing, maintaining and improving performance and is based on the principle that the performance of each individual within the organisation contributes to the organisation’s overall performance in the achievement of its goals. Conduct and Capability Policy – Replacing current SA Code of Conduct Policy Webhelp expect employees to conduct themselves to a high standard in all employment related activities and we are committed to encourage and support employees to do so. This policy emphasis the fair treatment throughout the Conduct & Capability and that all employees will be treated with integrity. South Africa is in the process of aligning our People Policies to the cluster policies, taking into account local differences in culture and legislation. This will allow our employees to have the same Webhelp experience. The following South African Legislation is being adhered to for the protection and enhancement of fair employment: • Basic Conditions of Employment Act, No 11 of 2002 • Labour Relations Act, No. 66 of 1995 • Equal Pay for Equal Value, supported in the Employment Equity Act, No 55 of 1998 • Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Amendment Act, No. 46 of 2013 Cluster UK India Sexual Harrassment Policy, committed to providing a work environment free of sexual harassment. Transport Policy, free transport is provided for both male and female employees, and female employees will be accompanied by a security guard. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 33 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR RECRUITMENT AND SOCIETAL ACTIONS PART 1 Webhelp aims to providing equal employment opportunity for all and our countries are constantly finding innovative channels to accomplish that. For example: Cluster FR • In Morocco, Webhelp makes a partnership with ANAPEC to ensure we recruit young people and support them on their first professional experience. • Policy of recruitment based on contracts for disabled worker, transformed in permanent contract. Every new employee is integrated in a tutorship program. (site of Compiegne) Cluster UK • In the UK, there has been a successful pilot of a ‘Schools Programme’. The aim was to encourage young school leavers to attend a 8 day workshop based at a site where they would learn about customer service basics, IT systems, recruitment advice/techniques and general working etiquette. After the workshop, the prospective agents were offered an interview for a permanent position. • This programme acts as a stepping stone into full-time employment for the young, job seekers. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 34 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR RECRUITMENT AND SOCIETAL ACTIONS PART 2 Cluster UK South Africa • We have various avenues, bodies and initiatives that we partner to ensure that we recruit responsibly, fairly and out of a socio-economically challenged population that has a high unemployment rate. This is done in line with local legislation and prescribed principles related to Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE), Employment Equity and Affirmative Action Our Social Goals 1. Enable youths in South Africa to provide a contribution to their communities, through education and employment 2. Develop an internal talent pool that is managed and developed to meet individual career aspirations • We partnered with Columba Leadership which is which is a South African social enterprise and charity that provides value-based programmes to help young people realise their inner greatness and the confidence to transform their own lives and those around them. The organisation also assists Webhelp SA with selecting a suitable school to partner with through the selection criteria they have. Webhelp SA’s CSI offering provides employment and bursaries to youth from low income areas in South Africa in order to improve their standard of living and prospects, and to indirectly assist them in impacting their community. This is aligned to Webhelp SA’s business imperatives and provides economic benefits through efficiencies realised. • We also partnered with a NGO called Harambee Youth Accelerator Programme. Harambee is an employer initiative that provides a sustainable way to successfully employ and retain first-time entrants into the world of work. They have developed a bespoke model that, on scale, sources, trains and places unemployed young people from disadvantaged backgrounds into first-time jobs. Case studies have shown a hirer rate of retention with equal performance statics than those that come with an experienced background. Webhelp SA have adopted this model and are piloting a group of 20 candidates. • Long term aspirations is to link these two programmes together to allow for students exiting secondary education to participate in a Harambee bridging programme and then to be facilitated into Webhelp SA through an internship Webhelp programme and eventually fulltime employment. Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 35 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR PERFORMANCE AND COMPETENCY MANAGEMENT  In the objective to drive greater engagement, performance and consistency across our people practices we are implementing a new and unique global HRIS called TALENT. This system covers multiple people needs including the talent and performance management.  The management of talent is coordinated across our geographies and is grounded on a consistent framework to identify and develop each people according to his performance and potential Cluster FR  We embedded the Talent management practices through: o A reform of job description integrating competences and career prospects or career path o A common set of skills for all profession. It includes more than a 100 skills (generic, specific and managerial). For each profession, 12 primary skills were defined o A common definition of our competencies linked to our assessment centers to promote people (re-designing of the AC process in late 2015early 2016)  Creation of a mapping tool to detect High potential as well as to determine mentoring actions for lowperformers. Cluster UK  In the UK, there is a Management Development strategy being implemented that will provide a structured approach to learning for our people which is both engaging and inspirational. Learning activities will be linked closely to individual development needs as well as business requirements, providing our managers/leaders with the skills, knowledge and behaviours to drive business performance.  Introduced an Executive/Elite Executive scheme for advisors in April 2015 at one of our UK sites, whereby we Webhelp are investing and developing our people through our values and recognising high performance. This has been highly successful and is currently being rolled out across the rest of the UK Cluster. Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés 36 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR EMPLOYEE RIGHTS, BENEFITS AND SUPPORT We recognise the need to support the interests of our employees and know that by doing this it will help maintain and improve the workplace effectiveness and performance. Each year our countries develop new incentives, support tools (etc.) to improve employee’s quality of life within the work space Cluster Turkey  ~60-65% of the current employees are female. This makes a significant difference in Yozgat and Bingöl where our locations create job opportunities that are scarce for women considering that we as Webhelp are the largest employer in those two cities.  We invested within the last 2 years to refurbishes and renovate 800 seats in order to create a more comfortable, pleasant and ergonomic work environment. A further investment is planned to before the end of 2016 to continue o improve employees work environment.  Free meals are provided to all employees during their shifts, and free transportation to certain zones of the city. Team leaders, and above, are given private health insurance. Cluster UK • We opened ‘My Benefits’, a website accessible by all employees. This provides an overview of our core benefits, voluntary benefits and lots of great discounts too. o Core Benefits includes pension, holidays and life assurance. o Voluntary Benefits everything Webhelp has to offer such as Fruity Friday, Workplace Giving, Star Awards, Childcare vouchers and much, much more. o Discounts lots of great discounts including money off holidays, shopping and technology. o Health and Wellbeing Information on our Employee Assistance Programme and options for benefit plans. • Our ‘Employee Assistance’ programme offers an online and telephone service providing support to for all employees on matters such as consumer rights, personal, health, work-related, and child and dependent care. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés 37 1 2 3 Labour 4 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON LABOUR PEOPLE ENGAGEMENT  For the past few years, Webhelp had its own internal barometer that measures the satisfaction of employees : the SATSA.  It has evolved in 2013 to meet the needs from our international growth : it is now composed of 22 common questions, + an additional 4 or 5 questions dedicated to specific topics for each country.  It’s an objective way to evaluate commitment, and identify areas for improvement. An action plan is systematically implemented and communicated to all our employees after each session  For the past few years our employee NPS has continuously improved and is strongly positive positioning us in the high performing organisations Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 38 4 ENVIRONMENT 39 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 MAIN WEBHELP COMMITMENTS  For several years, Webhelp has been part of a sustainable development strategy  As an office based company, Webhelp’s two main environmental impacts are production of waste and CO2 emissions from consumption of electricity. Our environmental policy states our commitment to Encourage Communicate reducing both of Comply with similar issues to our Prevent Implement these, and also states environmental Foster standards from staff through Reduce, reuse pollution by energy legislation and management our training and & recycle effective efficient our commitment to: best practices commitment stakeholders communication materials controls measures  Batteries  Water: PIRS on urinals, low flush toilets,  Sorting waste paper/ cardboard/ cans/ push spray taps. plastic (and now Food Waste at 2 UK  Air conditioning: office & server room sites) temperature set at 19° C.  Ink cartridges  Paper: PIN printing, paperless office  Expresso capsules + Cups environment, paper towels removed.  Bulbs / fluorescent tubes  Energy: Energy efficient hand driers,  Food Waste Collections introduced to 6 THE vending machine timers, PIRs in all UK sites SUSTAINABLE meeting/training rooms in UK, sensor lights DEVELOPEMENT  Shuttles (Morocco) AT WEBHELP  Active policy to reduce unnecessary  Bicycle parking shelters  Discounted bus travel (UK) printing.  Carpooling  AVOB (PC automatic standby) – now  Video conferencing to reduce business implemented in UK travel  Pairing electrical maintenance and HVAC  Electric vehicles and charging stations at (heating/ ventilation/ air conditioning) all Netherlands branches (now app. 15%  Criteria related to sustainable of portfolio) development included in all quotes Webhelp A virtuous quadrilateral to reduce our carbon footprint in everyday life, supported by poster campaigns Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT VARIOUS INITIATIVES TO DECREASE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Webhelp has been committed to energy management for several years and has decided to look at its processes and business practices to see what could be done to reduce its impact on the planet. Our sites have made significant changes and necessary improvements to achieve this promise, a few of many have been highlighted in the following slides; Cluster France  Awareness program in the sustainable development for all our collaborators (e-learning)  Best practice of optimisation of our energy consumption (lightings LED, programming air conditioning, automatic extinction)  Charter purchase signed by our suppliers including the respect for the environmental best practice  Implementation of a solution of optimisation of the consumption of our computers (AVOB): Automatic ignition & extinction, adjustment of the power of processors. setting in a stand-by mode of screens…  Increase of the use of visio conference  Commitment to Carbon compensation : participation in the operation 1 bought recycled eco telephone = 1 crashed tree “ (106 trees), deploy the Uniflow system on its sites offshore, system which has already allowed the protection of 300 trees a year on the French sites.  Various initiatives to decrease our water consumption (information, push spray taps…) Cluster Turkey  Solar panels are being installed on the roof of the Istanbul site and once completed, plan to supply all the building’s energy needs during the summer months and partially during winter months RESULTS :  Reduced energy consumption= 1 100 000 kWh/year (2015/2014)  AVOB Solution = Gain 60 % of our consumption, 1 736 000 kWh/year Webhelp  Operations for the protection of more of 400 trees  Reduced water consumption = 1 750 000 liters/year Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 41 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT REDUCTION IN CARBON EMISSIONS AND WATER CONSUMPTION Cluster UK  Continued investment in energy efficiency technologies across all our sites. These include;  Major LED lighting roll out across multiple sites – we have recently installed our 1,000th LED  Significant upgrade to Air Conditioning systems across 3 sites resulting in 20% savings  Installation of new Building Management System at our Dearne Valley site, with 10% savings.  Installation of 35+ water saving taps across multiple sites. RESULTS : Another Successful Environmental year for Cluster UK 21% Reduction in absolute CO2 emissions and 30% in CO2/Employee emissions Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 42 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT REDUCTION IN CARBON EMISSIONS AND WATER CONSUMPTION: Example of LED Lighting Project Cluster UK  This is a typical of all our recent LED projects. Also completed at Dunoon and Dearne Valley.  LEDs use 50-70% less energy than our standard Fluorescent tubes and produce the same amount of Lumens/Watt  LEDs also have a lower heat output which will have an indirect impact on our air/con usage.  In addition to energy savings, LEDs will last for up-to and above 50,000 hours resulting in lower maintenance costs and time. RESULTS :  Savings of £10k per annum and a 72% reduction in consumption. Webhelp  This equates to 41 tonnes of CO2.  The Life Expectancy of the lighting has increased. Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 43 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT SUCCESSFUL IMPLENTATION OF ISO 50001 : ENERGY MANAGEMENT Cluster UK • 2015 has seen the successful introduction of a more structured process of energy management, via the implementation of ISO 50001 • Having already achieved accreditation to ISO 140001: Environmental Management, the new ISO standard has further cemented Cluster UK’s determination to lower its environmental impact. • The new ISO standard will ensure areas of significant energy use are targeted and that efficiency measures are implemented. Results:  Now implemented, the new standard will provide a framework for energy management, ensuring ongoing reduction of energy consumption. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 44 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES PART 1 Cluster UK • We introduced Food Waste collections at six of it’s larger sites. Food Waste is a major contributor to climate change and by diverting this from landfill, Webhelp is further reducing it’s impact on the environment. • 100% of Cluster UK’s waste is diverted from Landfill; this is achieved by re-using, recycling and recovering energy from our waste materials. • As a supported of Sustainable Travel, Cluster UK is actively taking part in travel initiatives. The staff at the Falkirk office took part in a region wide initiative to increase sustainable travel, whereby prizes were won for most amount of miles travelled on public transport/bike/walk/run etc. • We are currently awaiting the Cycle Friendly Employer award for some of the Scottish sites. Results: Food Waste;  14.4 tonnes of Food Waste will be Diverted.  302kg/CO2e saved by diverting from Landfill. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 45 1 2 3 4 Environment 5 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ENVIRONMENT ADDITIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES PART 2 Webhelp Payment Services • A significant programme was settled to change from paper-based processes to electronic exchanges: WPS has implemented systems to reduce the intense usage of paper in administrative transactions, such as leveraging electronic transfers, electronic document management, and online services. • For 2016, the person in charge of the environmental pillar of the WPS CSR policy, will work on an eco-responsible charter. • WPS makes also efforts to work with suppliers who are aware about environmental impacts. In 2015, a group of employees decided to climb the Mont-Blanc mountain. To go with this team we worked with the company Allibert Trekking which has a responsible tourism certification. Cluster NL • We have added 7 hybrid cars to our lease car portfolio of 70 cars (i.e.10%). This means that the share of hybrid cars has increased to 22% of the total portfolio. We continue to encourage our employees to choose or switch to a hybrid car. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 46 5 ANTI-CORRUPTION 1 2 3 4 5 Anti-corruption 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION WEBHELP DESIGNED A GLOBAL PROCESS OF FRAUD MANAGEMENT  Prevention -Awareness. This step is to proactively reduce fraud. It consists on :  The definition and formalisation of a global process of fraud management .  The development and dissemination: o User Charter recalling the security rules to follow in business. o Code of ethics.  The completion of awareness programs / specific security & fraud training. (Within SA, staff complete fraud and financial crime training during induction and thereafter refreshed at yearly intervals)  Conducting audits and checks.  Detection surveillance. This step is to identify potential fraud and implement measures in order to minimise or reduce the impact. It includes:  Conducting a Fraud Risk Analysis in different projects operated by Webhelp. This map is updated regularly.  The implementation of technical solutions or processes to monitor transactions deemed at risk“. Dedicated Operational Security Correspondent was created on projects flagged high risk.  The implementation of a number of proactive controls.  Investigations corrections. Respond at the earliest and the most effective way possible after the identification of suspected fraud. It includes:  The definition of a workflow reaction in case of fraud/Crisis Cell.  The definition of a specific alert channel so that only persons to be informed are informed. Memos were distributed to all employees to tell them what to do in cases of suspected fraud and who to contact. Webhelp  The training of teams in charge of performing forensics analysis and the creation of a toolbox analysis. Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 48 1 2 3 4 5 Anti-corruption 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION PART 1  The principle of Global Compact were included in Webhelp’s buying charter.  Implementation of contractual clause regarding anticorruption measures  Implementation of a process including the validation of several officers before signing an agreement with a supplier. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 49 1 2 3 4 5 Anti-corruption 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION PART 2 Cluster FR  Bpack a management tool for handling purchase, allows for a computerised date processing, with follow up of the different departments and their spend, easy reporting by supplier allowing improved control, and calls for competition if necessary. Cluster UK  We evaluate new suppliers in line with the Supplier Management Policy which directs employees to use the ‘Supplier Matrix’ in order to select the most appropriate supplier.  The Bribery & Ethics Policy directs all staff to complete the Corporate Hospitality Tracker on receipt of any gifts, offerings or expenditure over £75.  The Whistleblowing Policy has been introduced. Allowing for a provision for all staff to disclose information that he or she reasonably believes evidences a violation of any law or misconduct within the business. Further we have secured the services of an independent information gathering company, Whistle Blowers (Pty) Ltd to whom employees, our contractors, suppliers and customers may report illicit activity without fear of victimisation.  In SA, the Anti-bribery and corruption procedures are reviewed regularly to ensure their continuing suitability, adequacy and effectiveness in order to meet applicable legal requirements Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 50 1 2 3 4 5 Anti-corruption 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION PART 3 Webhelp Payment Services • We obtained the Payment establishment status in 2012, and are continuously embedding a solid Risk management culture. Our motto towards our customers is “less risk, more cash”. To be comfortable with risk management, WPS has: o An Audit and Risks committee o A head of compliance and Internal control o A real internal control system o An internal and customer data protection system. (In 2016, WPS will look forward to obtain the ISO 27001 certification) o A master contract for payment services to insure the same degree of equity and avoid conflicts of interest between its customers o Internal trainings to sensitize the whole WPS group to risks, as Anti Money Laundering and the financing of terrorism, security of internal and customer data, office access controls… o An internal and external fraud management policy with zero tolerance towards fraud and corruption Cluster NL Webhelp Nederland has decided to install alarm buttons at the reception desks in the various offices to provide for a safe working environment for the receptionists. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 51 1 2 3 4 5 Anti-corruption 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION INDIVIDUAL DATA PROTECTION PART 1 In addition to the basic requirements of quality of service, the Webhelp Group ensures data security and privacy protection. We strive to uphold the principles of responsible purchasing and to ensure the security and privacy of both internal and customer data. The Group attaches particular importance to the implementation of a continuous improvement approach. The principles and rules relating to Information Security are defined in the Information Security Framework, which applies to all Group entities. The framework is intended to ensure the availability, integrity, and confidentiality of information and services provided, as well as traceability of actions. It is based on best practices in terms of Information Security management and in particular on requirements regarding protection of personal data in each country (CNIL, OPC, CNDP, etc.), on the ISO 27002 standard, as well as on the PCI-DSS v3.0 standard for credit card holder data environments. The objectives of our information security strategy include: • Protection of Webhelp's data assets, as well as of those of its clients. • Continuity of Webhelp's operations, as well as of the services provided to its customers • Compliance with regulations • Protection of brand reputation Strict measures are put in place to ensure data security and privacy. These include for example: • Strong access control, careful handling of security storage, and formalised exchange: o Access to sensitive data is allowed only after identification, authentication, and checking of access rights. o Sensitive data may only be accessed by clearly identified persons who need to acquire that information for carrying out their duties. o Data that might contain personal information is considered sensitive data and is processed by Webhelp in compliance with regulatory and legal requirements. • Data protection requirements are included into our employment contracts. Additionally, a specific confidentiality agreement recalling good security practices is signed by each employee. Webhelp • A restricted group of people are authorised to access the database containing personal data. Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 52 1 2 3 4 5 Anti-corruption ANTI-CORRUPTION/ 2015 WEBHELP PROGRESS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION INDIVIDUAL DATA PROTECTION PART 2 • Employee identity is monitored. Access control by badge is put in place at almost all of our centres. Badge access control is set up at the entrance of a centre, but may also be activated at each stage on request. By default, it is enabled in equipment rooms. • A user charter is attached to the internal regulations. It is intended to: o Facilitate understanding on how to use our information systems. o Regulate the operation and use of the company's Information System. o Maintain an optimum level of security. • Data is classified on a 4 level scale. Depending on the classification level, different security rules apply. o Level 1: Public data o Level 2: Internal Webhelp data o Level 3: Confidential data o Level 4: Secret data • On some projects, including those dealing with credit card data (PCI-DSS environment), in addition to the user charter, employees must sign a specific privacy policy. • An information security awareness program consisting of e-learning training modules, posters, newsletters, and videos, was introduced in 2012 to promote awareness of data protection amongst employees. • Regarding the protection of credit card data, Webhelp has set up in late 2011 a dedicated environment, in compliance with the PCI-DSS standard (standard required by the major credit card networks: Visa, MasterCard, American Express, etc.). o All employees working in this environment must complete a training module specifically on the protection of credit card data. o This environment was certified in April 2012 and is subject to regular external audits and self-assessments. Webhelp Copyright © 2015 Tous droits réservés Communication on progress 2015 53 Communication on Progress in 2015
