Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 1 Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Introduction The United Nations Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org) is rooted in the desire to promote a sustainable global economy, in full respect of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. It was proposed for the first time during the 1999 World Economic Forum in Davos by former UN Secretary Kofi Annan, who on that occasion invited the global economic leaders attending the forum to endorse a “Global Compact” with the United Nations to tackle the most critical aspects of globalization in a collaborative manner. As of today (September 2016) over 12,000 companies and organizations from over 170 countries have adhered to the compact. In 2012, illycaffè adhered to the Global Compact (in 2013 published its first Communication on Progress), and committed to integrating into its strategic vision, organizational culture, and day-to-day operations the ten principles related to human and labour rights, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption promoted by the initiative. The Communication on Progress is a document that accompanies and completes the company’s Sustainable Value Report, prepared according to the Global Reporting Initiative: both are instruments through which illycaffè periodically informs its stakeholders on the activities implemented and results achieved concerning corporate responsibility and sustainability. For more in-depth information and a detailed account of what illycaffè has done and the results it has achieved, please click on the hyperlinks to the relevant sections of the Sustainable Value Report 2015. http://valuereport.illy.com/index.php?lang=en http://valuereport.illy.com/pdf/isvr_EN_2015.pdf For more questions or comments related to sustainability, illycaffè is glad to provide information on its vision, as well as on its specific goals and targets. e-mail: valuereport@illy.com 2 Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 STATEMENT 3 Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 SECTOR: HUMAN RIGHTS Principles of the Global Compact: 1 Businesses should promote and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their respective spheres of influence; and 2 make sure they are not complicit, directly or indirectly, in human rights abuses. Strategies, policies and actions undertaken by illycaffè illycaffè exercises due diligence to identify, prevent, and take on the actual or potential impacts on human rights of its own activities and the activities of those with which it works or over which it can exert some influence. It uses various systems of governance, analysis, monitoring, management, and communications:  illycaffè adheres to the principles of the ILO International Labour Organization: illycaffè only purchases its coffee from countries which comply with ILO standards such as a minimum age of 14 years for child employment.  In 2012, it adhered to the Global Compact and committed to periodically reporting the results obtained in the human rights field; in 2013 published its first Communication on Progress; in 2014 and 2015 confirmed its commitment.  illycaffè monitors legislative and normative developments in the countries which supply it with green coffee and periodically updates its country risk assessments (Country Profile);  In 2016, for the fourth consecutive year, illycaffè has made the list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies, created by the Ethisphere Institute, a global leader in defining and promoting ethical standards and commercial practices. illycaffè is one of the four companies awarded in the Food, Beverage & Agriculture category for 2016 and is the only Italian company, thus taking its places among the companies of excellence and sector leaders.  It drafted and distributed both internally and externally a Sustainability Manifesto, which explicitly reflects the principles of ethics and the dignity of people;  In its commercial, professional, and social relationships, illycaffè applies and explicitly references the Code of Ethics that includes clauses on the respect for Human Rights in all behaviours and purchasing contracts. Certain parts of the Code, such as those related to Human Rights, are applied to purchases and along the entire supply chain. The application of the Code of Ethics and the monitoring of any violations thereof are ensured by the presence of the Supervisory Board.  In 2011, illycaffè was the first company in the world to obtain the Responsible Supply Chain Process certification, through which it monitors its coffee supplies and actively manages aspects such as compliance with national legislation regarding labour, human rights, child labour, forced and compulsory labour, union rights, overtime, health and safety, diversity and equal opportunities in the workplace, and equal pay for men and women. Suppliers who are not in compliance with national legislation on labour rights or with international human rights principles are blacklisted and must become 4 Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 compliant with all relevant legislation and standards before being able to resume supplying coffee to illycaffè.  Relationships with other suppliers are constantly subject to monitoring control (performed by illycaffè). In particular, illycaffè involves its strategic and/or critical suppliers in a Supplier management system, that has been more implemented in 2014. This management system includes a supplier assessment program which take into account social aspects along with those strictly related to supply conditions; additionally, all suppliers are provided with the Code of Ethics, which must be formally accepted and respected. Results to 31/12/2015 (outputs and outcomes) Where to verify it – Section of Sustainable Value Report 2015 illycaffè delivery the Code of Ethics to all employees newly hired 2.4.1 illycaffè has made the list of the World’s Most Ethical Companies 1.4.1 In 2014 illycaffè paid over 180 visits to growers in plantations. From 4.1 2010, when the Responsible Supply chain Process begun, to the end of 2015, over 1,600 producers were involved. RSCP includes screening for human rights Supplier management System 2.5 No instances of discriminatory practices 2.7 No violations of local community rights 2.7 The company has not received any complaints concerning human rights 2.7 5 Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 SECTOR: LABOUR Principles of the Global Compact 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Strategies, policies and actions undertaken by illycaffè  illycaffè adheres to the principles of the ILO International Labour Organization.  Illycaffè applies to its workers all of the dispositions contained in the National Collective Bargaining Agreements and all norms related to labour rights in every country in which its staff operated;  The company adopts a Code of Ethics which sets out the rights and responsibilities of workers, reference corporate principles (value of human resources, the integrity and dignity of people, equitable authority) and norms of behaviour; the Code is distributed both internally and externally;  Staff management includes annual performance evaluation systems based on the clear definition of shared goals that are measurable in individual, financial, numerical, and economic terms, whose achievement is rewarded with an economic bonus of variable entity;  The company adopts an Organizational, Management, and Oversight model compliant with Italian Legislation, which makes it possible to monitor and act upon violations of the Code of Ethics and thus of workers’ rights;  The respect of workers’ rights and labour laws is considered a minimum, indispensable prerequisite for establishing commercial relations with green coffee producers and other suppliers: the company constantly monitors the evolution of legislation in the countries it works in and prepares specific Country Profiles for each country;  Through the Responsible Supply Chain Process, the company monitors its coffee suppliers and actively manages aspects such as compliance with national legislation regarding labour, human rights, child labour, forced and compulsory labour, union rights, 6 Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 overtime, health and safety, diversity and equal opportunities in the workplace, and equal pay for men and women.  Since 2013, the company has had an agreement of co-shared responsibility to be signed by all illy citizens, with the objective of defining the mutual commitments of employees, managers, executives and owners, to protect the uniqueness of the brand. Results to 31/12/2015 (outputs and outcomes) Where to verify it – Setion of the Sustainable Value Report 2015 Employees by gender, age, and country 2.4.1, 2.4.2 Workers belonging to protected classes 2.4.1, 2.4.2 Percentage of women per position and annual gross retribution ratio for men and 2.4.2 women New hires by gender and position 2.4.1, 2.4.2 Employee turnover by age and gender 2.4.2 Benefits to improve the work-private life balance 2.4.5 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 2.7, 4.3.2 Relations with unions 2.4.5 Skill management programmes and annual training hours per employee, listed 2.4.3 by worker class and gender Percentage of employees who regularly receive performance and career 2.4.3 development assessments Programmes and results to monitor compliance with human rights for workers in 4.3.2 the coffee value chain 7 Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 SECTOR: ENVIRONMENT Specific principles of the Global Compact: 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Strategies, policies and actions undertaken by illycaffè  Since 2003, illycaffè has adopted an Environmental Management System (E.M.S) certified according to UNI ISO 14001 international standards. On the basis of the risk analyses and monitoring activities provided for by the E.M.S, each year the company defines the programmes and management, control, and prevention activities to improve its environmental impact.  In addition to ISO 14001 certification, since 2004 illycaffè has adopted the EMAS EcoManagement and Audit Scheme.  illycaffè has developed an Environmental Sustainability Road Map with which has voluntarily definied objectives to reduce its CO2 emissions through 2020.  Through the publication and dissemination of its Environmental Policy and Environmental Statement, illycaffè periodically communicates its commitment and achievement to all stakeholders.  Life Cycle Assessment: illycaffè uses the latest version of the software SIMAPRO 8.3 to calculate and reduce the environmental impact of its production processes. LCA is a support tool for decision-making right from the planning stage, and whose goal is to create new products and packaging.  The company has underwritten a voluntary agreement with the Italian Ministry of the Environment to reduce its impact on the climate;  Illycaffè has an energy manager to help it reduce its energy consumption; additionally, illycaffè has decided to exclusively use electricity from renewable sources. The total illycaffé's electrical energy supply is obtained by renewable sources, regarding all collection points in Trieste (Italy).  The company’s production facilities are not located in protected areas or areas with high biodiversity.  The company promotes environmentally friendly agronomy techniques, implements programmes, and monitors its results. It also participates in international working groups on Sustainable Agriculture and is an active member of the Coffee working group of the Sustainable Agricolture Initiative . 8 Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016  illycaffè is certified in keeping with the Responsible Supply Chain Process though which it monitors green coffee producers. Some of the prerequisites include specific ones related to the management of environmental risk.  illycaffè became official partner of EXPO 2015 Feeding the Planet. Energy for Life for the Coffee Cluster, and it is responsible for designing and managing content in the dedicated area. The company was chosen for its holistic approach to the issue, which can enhance the participation of guest countries by fostering collaboration between different cultures, in keeping with the EXPO's core values. illycaffè submitted a full programme of cultural events, debates, demos, tastings, and exhibitions to disseminate the culture of coffee and sustainability, and to highlight its importance for the world's socio-economic system.  With reference to the packaging of products, illycaffè adopts eco-compatible solutions: particularly, illycaffè has launched new products ((Refilly, Cubo Iperespresso, Cialda Ese Monodose ) which, thanks to some packaging adaptations, reduce the environmental impact.  Since 2013, Fondazione Ernesto illy is financing a project regarding the reforestation of the Tamara region in Colombia, near the water sources, with native trees.  in December 2015, the company received the ISO 50001 certification (Energy management systems) by following a systemic approach to energy efficiency. Results to 31/12/2015 (outputs and outcomes) Where to verify it – Section of the Sustainable Value Report 2015 Environmental management system 3.2 Raw materials and other materials 3.4 Energy management and energy savings 3.5 Water management 3.6 Mitigation of the environmental impact of products and packaging 3.8 Biodiversity protection 3.10 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and results achieved 3.3 Emission of substances harmful to the ozone layer by weight and other significant 3.3 emissions Waste management 3.7 No fines or sanctions for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations 3.1t Sustainable agriculture and biodiversity; dissemination of agricultural 3.10 methodologies with low environmental impact Initiatives to monitor and reduce the environmental impact of transport 3.9 9 Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 SECTOR: ANTI-CORRUPTION Specific principles: 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Strategies, policies and actions undertaken by illycaffè  Illycaffè has adopted a Code of Ethics which formally calls for fighting corruption. The Code of Ethics is distributed to all employees and is applied to suppliers and subcontractors. illycaffè adopts also a specific Anti-Corruption Code.  The company adopts an Organizational, Management, and Oversight model compliant with Italian Legislation (legislative Decree 231/01) through which it analyzes risks associated with corruption and identifies specific procedures to fight it. The main activities to do so include: o Establishment of a Supervisory Board that oversees the application of the Code of Ethics and the model; o Distribution of Model 231 and the Code of Ethics to all employees and contractors; o Information and periodical training for employees in order to increase awareness on corruption and how to fight it; o Establishment of a system to oversee the company’s financial flows and receivable invoices to prevent the creation of slush funds to corrupt and/or disburse funds or presents to public officials and their family members; o Assignment of powers to manage relations with the Public Administration on the basis of the organizational and management responsibilities of the public body in question, and setting of thresholds for spending authorizations; o Oversight of the activities of contractors and verification that their remuneration is in line with those in the geographic area of reference.  The company is certified in accordance with the Responsible Supply Chain Process, which oversees the monitoring and management of business ethics risks, including corruption. The R.S.C.P. comprises two protocols: the first ensures that all prerequisites are applied within the certified company (illycaffè), while the second applies to coffee suppliers. illycaffè can thus work to fight corruption by encouraging its main suppliers to adopt similar anti-corruption practices.  Illycaffè has been recognized by the Ethisphere Institute, the global leader in defining and advancing the standards of ethical business practices as a 2016 World’s Most Ethical Company. The information collected provides a comprehensive sampling of definitive criteria of core competencies, rather than all aspects of corporate governance, risk, sustainability, compliance and ethics. Results to 31/12/2015 (outputs and outcomes) Where to verify it – Section of the Sustainable Value Report 2015 Adoption of internal audit and governance mechanisms 1.5 Adoption of ethical Code of Conduct 1.3.1, 1.5 10 Illycaffè S.p.A. GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Percentage and number of internal divisions monitored with regards to risks 1.5 associated with corruption Number of workers who received training concerning the organization’s anti2.7 corruption policies and procedures No known instances of corruption 2.7 Positions regarding public policies, participation in the development of public 2.6 policies, and lobbying efforts Support to local communities and institutional relationships illycaffè in Italy 2.6.2 Programmes and results to promote the fight against corruption and monitor risks 4.3 along the coffee value chain 11
