2O15 Corporate social responsibility CSR REPORT Excerpt from the 2015 Registration Document and additional information contents Editorial 1 Corporate social responsibility Excerpt from the 2015 Registration Document 2 Presentation of the Group 2 Corporate Social Responsibility at CNP Assurances 6 Protection for everyone 9 For a sustainable economy 15 Be an attractive employer 22 Fostering a sustainable society and environment 34 Methodology 44 Concordance table for labour, social and environmental data 46 Additional information 48 Detailed indicators of consolidated subsidiaries 48 Social and environmental indicators of non-consolidated subsidiaries 59 EDITORIAL CNP Assurances was one of the ﬁrst French companies to pledge to uphold the United Nations Global Compact, in the ﬁrm belief that companies have a duty to fulﬁl the expectations of all of their stakeholders. By this we mean not just shareholders, customers and employees, but also partners and local communities. Our commitment to this principle has steadily deepened over the past 12 years. Corporate Social Responsibility has become a force for change and value creation. It is the bedrock of the multichannel, multi-partner strategy we are deploying both in Europe and in South America. Year after year, this report measures our progress in meeting the major Frédéric Lavenir challenges facing our organisation in this vital area. In 2015, we enthusiastically supported initiatives to combat global warming presented at the COP21 Climate Change Conference in Paris. As well as continuing to keep a constant watch over our own CO2 emissions, we made a commitment to support the environmental and energy transition through our investment strategy. Our targets include doubling our green investments by 2017, achieving a 20% reduction in the carbon footprint of our equity and real estate portfolios by 2020 and excluding from the portfolio all companies that derive over 15% of their revenue from thermal coal. This commitment is another milestone in our socially responsible strategy in favour of sustainable development. Frédéric Lavenir Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 1 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EXCERPT FROM THE 2015 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Presentation of the Group I Proﬁle The CNP Assurances Group designs, develops, distributes and manages personal risk, protection, savings and pension products. Its mission is to offer across-the-board insurance protection in keeping with the Group’s proud heritage and deeply-held values. OUR BUSINESS, PROVIDING PERSONAL INSURANCE To enable people with health issues to obtain a mortgage in order COVER to buy their own home, we participated actively in discussions to improve the Aeras convention on insurance and loans for people CNP Assurances plays a major role in meeting the social representing an aggravated health risk. In 2015, we participated protection needs of families and individuals. New protection in revising the Aeras convention to remove the obligation for needs are emerging as families become more scattered and cancer survivors to inform lenders that they had been a victim the population ages. Increasing life expectancy in Europe and of the disease. We also worked with other insurers in France demand for insurance among Brazil’s expanding middle class to prepare a reference grid to align term creditor insurance are also driving demand for personal risk insurance solutions, in premiums charged to people suffering from cancer or certain Europe and Latin America. other diseases more closely with those paid by borrowers who do not represent an aggravated risk. Our term creditor insurance The CNP Assurances Group is responding to these practical rejection rate is very low, standing at less than 0.2% for the past imperatives by enabling people to protect their future and that of seven years. their loved ones, to conﬁdently undertake projects, and to safely pass on their wealth to future generations. TWO CONTINENTS WITH COMPLEMENTARY GROWTH DRIVERS PROVIDING SOLUTIONS ACROSS THE NEEDS SPECTRUM By addressing the growing needs of today’s society, our business model offers considerable development potential. We have a One distinguishing feature of our Group is that we work closely robust, balanced geographic presence on two continents. with our distribution partners to develop offers geared to the proﬁles of their respective customer bases in terms of age, risk We’re the market leader in France, in a wealthy and mature appetite and income. The wide-ranging challenges include Europe where the ageing population offers signiﬁcant scope for helping policyholders to prepare for retirement, pass on their business growth. assets to the next generation, ﬁnance long-term care, maintain We also have a strong position in Brazil, in a growing South their standard of living following the death of a partner or access American market. The Brazilian market is experiencing a rapid dental care. Whatever the need, we offer comprehensive, increase in demand for insurance among the expanding middle innovative solutions to our millions of policyholders around the class while, at the other end of the scale, our microinsurance world thanks to our expertise in insuring the various types of risk. offer meets the needs of the millions of Brazilians who have very Our offers are designed to provide insurance solutions for all low incomes. budgets. Each product range includes affordable products for Lastly, the ramp-up of digitisation taking place on both continents customers in all income brackets, including policies with very is having a clear impact on local people, their ways of life and low minimum premiums offered to European customers and a their jobs. This force for change has led to a rethink of personal microinsurance offering for the Latin American market. protection solutions and the design of new types of services and new methods of delivering them. 2 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP I Key ﬁgures Founded over 160 years ago A comprehensive range of social protection solutions Operations in Europe and Latin America, with a strong presence in Brazil No. 1 in France for personal insurance (1) No. 1 in France for term creditor insurance (2) No. 2 in France for group pension plans (3) No. 4 in Europe for personal insurance (excluding health) (4) No. 5 in Brazil for insurance (5) €1,130 million attributable group net proﬁt in 2015 €31.6 billion premium income in 2015 (IFRS) €316.9 billion average technical reserves in 2015 (excluding deferred participation) 36 million insureds under (6) 13 million (6) savings and 4,740 employees personal risk/protection pensions policyholders worldwide policies (7) worldwide (1) Source: FFSA 2014 data, June 2015 (5) Source: Caixa Seguradora, December 2015 (2) Term creditor insurance contracts in 2014. Sources: FFSA 2014 key indica(6) Estimates partly based on the number of contracts under management, tors, June 2015, and Argus de l’Assurance “Les bancassureurs”, April 2015 rounded up (3) Source: Argus de l’Assurance “Pensions Top 20”, April 2015 (7) Personal risk, health, term creditor and property & casualty insurance (4) Source: Argus de l’Assurance “2014 results European Top 20”, December 2015 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 3 PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP I CNP Assurances’ stakeholders at 31 December 2015 In Europe GERMANY, ITALY, SPAIN, POLAND, AUSTRIA, NORWAY, SWEDEN, DENMARK, FINLAND, IRELAND Personal risk/protection* CNP Santander Insurance • INSUREDS: IRELAND – 4 million personal risk/protection CNP Europe Life insureds Savings/pensions • INSUREDS: • EMPLOYEES: 44 – 500 savings/pensions • Sales outlets: more than 120,000 • EMPLOYEES: 8 FRANCE CYPRUS/GREECE CNP Assurances LBP Prévoyance CNP Cyprus MFPrévoyance Insurance Holding (Consolidated French Group) • INSUREDS: • INSUREDS: – 256,000 personal risk/ – 19 million personal risk/ protection * protection – 41,000 savings/pensions – 9 million savings/pensions • EMPLOYEES: 285 • PARTNERS: 420 • Sales outlets: 1,000 • EMPLOYEES: 3,136 CNP Assurances and consolidated subsidiaries and 541 non-consolidated subsidiaries • Sales outlets: 12,300 SPAIN CNP Partners ITALY • INSUREDS: CNP Unicredit Vita – 451,000 personal risk/ protection * • INSUREDS: – 225,000 savings/pensions – 430,000 personal risk/protection • EMPLOYEES: 176 – 413,000 savings/pensions • Sales outlets: 3,800 • EMPLOYEES: 163 • Sales outlets: 1,800 4 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PRESENTATION OF THE GROUP In Latin America CIVIL SOCIETY • Insurance supervisors and public authorities BRAZIL • Professional bodies Caixa Seguradora • Host communities and subsidiaries • Beneﬁciaries of corporate • INSUREDS: philanthropy – 10 million personal risk/ protection – 2.9 million savings/pensions • EMPLOYEES: 863 ISSUERS OF • Sales outlets: 60,000 FINANCIAL ASSETS • 1,200 government and corporate bond issuers ** • 252 companies in which the Group is a minority shareholder • Asset managers SUPPLIERS • Service providers (administrative, advisory, etc.) • Ofﬁce equipment suppliers ARGENTINA • IT service and equipment CNP Seguros de vida suppliers • INSUREDS: – 3 million personal risk/ protection* – 391,000 savings/pensions • EMPLOYEES: 65 • Sales outlets: 480 * Personal risk, health, term creditor and property & casualty insurance. ** And other debt instruments. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 5 Corporate Social Responsibility at CNP Assurances I The story of our CSR commitment 2003: THE FUNDAMENTAL FIRST STEP, PLEDGING COORDINATED DEPLOYMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES TO UPHOLD THE GLOBAL COMPACT AND SHARED PROGRAMMES WITH PARTNERS CNP Assurances has always upheld human rights and citizens’ In line with the Group’s business model, our main subsidiaries rights, in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and have one or several local partners, generally banks that distribute more speciﬁcally has always complied with the labour standards their products. These subsidiaries develop CSR policies in line of the International Labour Organization and the national labour with Group principles. There is regular dialogue between laws of each host country. CNP Assurances and its subsidiaries and they share the same performance indicators. In pledging to uphold the Global Compact in 2003, we reafﬁrmed our commitment to respecting these fundamental principles, and also to combating corruption and protecting the environment. CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, the I The ten principles Caixa Seguradora group and CNP UniCredit Vita have also pledged to uphold the Global Compact. of the Global Compact 2009: HELPING TO PROMOTE THE ADOPTION OF THESE PRINCIPLES THROUGHOUT THE INSURANCE SECTOR Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection We played an active role in launching the Association Française of internationally proclaimed human rights; and de l’Assurance’s sustainable development charter in 2009 2. Make sure they are not complicit in human rights and have pledged to pursue its core aims of reducing social abuses. vulnerability, combating climate change, supporting economic development and promoting socially responsible investment. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 2011: DEEPENING OUR COMMITMENT TO ACTING and the effective recognition of the right to collective AS A RESPONSIBLE INSURER AND A RESPONSIBLE bargaining; INVESTOR 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; In 2011, we pledged to uphold the United Nations’ Principles 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and for Responsible Investment (PRI), ushering in a new phase in our 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of commitment as a responsible investor. In 2015, Caixa Seguradora employment and occupation. signed the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI). Environment 2015: COMMITMENTS IN FAVOUR OF THE ENERGY 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach AND ENVIRONMENTAL TRANSITION to environmental challenges; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental A signatory of the Montreal Carbon Pledge in May 2015, responsibility; and CNP Assurances published the carbon footprint of the ﬁnancial 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of portfolio of directly held listed equities in December 2015. It also environmentally friendly technologies. made a public commitment to reduce its footprint by 20% by 2020. Ambitious commitments were also made in respect of its Anti-corruption real estate portfolio and its “coal” assets. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 6 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CNP ASSURANCES I Components of the CSR approach Being a responsible insurer means acting as a value-adding CNP Assurances also engages in constructive dialogue with ﬁnancial intermediary between policyholders looking for security companies in which it is a shareholder whenever a problem is and an economy exposed to risks. We protect policyholders revealed in the course of the quarterly SRI screening process by minimising their exposure to the risks of everyday life. Our via our asset managers or directly during the lead-up to excellent risk assessment skills and long-term investment strategy Shareholders’ Meetings. CNP Assurances plays an active role ensure that we are able to fulﬁl our commitments. Beyond these in the work of the French Insurance Association (Association commitments, which are the bedrock of the insurance offer, we française de l’assurance – AFA) on CSR issues. We are also a innovate by offering real social value-added. member of ORSE, a French CSR think-tank, and its Finance Club, which brings together companies and stakeholders (NGOs and CNP Assurances’ CSR approach is organised around four strong unions). In 2014, CNP Assurances joined the Institutional Circle commitments that inspire all our actions. of Novethic, a French media and research centre specialising in W Offer protection for everyone: responsible investment. W promote access to insurance; The cnp.fr website, which is accessible to all, had nearly 400,000 visitors in 2015, nearly a quarter of which were to the W design socially responsible products and services; section devoted to individuals. W better satisfy policyholders. In addition to institutional labour relations and employee W Contribute to a sustainable economy: satisfaction surveys, diagnostic reviews of psychosocial risks performed in 2013 and 2015 helped improve our understanding W be a responsible investor; of how employees perceive their work environment. Following W be a responsible purchaser. the Company’s reorganisation into business units, a survey was conducted in two phases to determine employees’ reactions to W Be an attractive employer: the change. The results were discussed by the Occupational W develop skills in line with the Group’s strategy; Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee. W provide a working environment that fosters well-being and The international subsidiaries also participate in local professional performance; bodies. The Caixa Seguradora group carries out an annual CSR assessment in conjunction with research institute Ethos. W roll out a robust policy on gender equality in the workplace. W Foster a sustainable society and environment: THE CSR MANAGEMENT BODIES W optimise the environmental footprint of the Group’s internal workings; CNP Assurances has a Sustainable Development department, W reduce the carbon and environmental impact of products; which reports directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and relies on support departments. It also reports to the Board of Directors and W manage the local impact. the Chairman on its activities and its objectives. CNP UniCredit Vita set up a CSR department in 2015. Since STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE 2013, sustainable development indicators established by the Green Group have been included in the Management CNP Assurances maintains regular dialogue with its main Committee’s quarterly report. stakeholders and conducts periodic stakeholder satisfaction In 2013, the Caixa Seguradora group established the surveys. Caixa Seguradora Institute, in addition to its Sustainable In 2015, CNP Assurances launched La Fabrique d’Assurance, Development Committee, thereby reinforcing its social, which brings together insurers and experts in various ﬁelds to environmental and cultural programmes. discuss trends in social issues and their impact on insurance. Since the end of 2014, the CSR actions undertaken by Regular satisfaction surveys are conducted among policyholders CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros have been part and our distribution partners in France and worldwide. These of broader strategic objectives. The Company launched its surveys help enhance the Company’s customer service process. “Multiplicar” CSR programme and created a Sustainability In addition, CNP Assurances and its main subsidiaries conduct Committee in July 2015. qualitative and quantitative studies to anticipate the needs resulting from social and demographic change (see “Priority No. 3: better satisfy policyholders“ on page 12). 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 7 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT CNP ASSURANCES I A measure of CSR performance CNP ASSURANCES’ OBJECTIVES W Assess suppliers from a CSR perspective: An assessment covering 45% of the amount of purchases was performed in 2015. Results at the end of 2015: key objectives W Continue to reduce CO2 emissions per FTE for internal achieved operations: Not achieved in 2015 due to a change in methodology. W “Create value for all CNP Assurances stakeholders as a responsible insurer and investor”: W ﬁnance the energy transition: Publication of the carbon Additional 2016 objectives focused footprint of the ﬁnancial portfolio of directly held listed on the priority low-carbon strategy equities. Exclusion and sale of shares in companies whose Extend the measurement of the carbon footprint to corporate business is closely related to thermal coal. Development of bonds, and publish it by the end of 2016. “green investments”: €800 million at 31 December 2015; Start achieving the 2020 objective of reducing the carbon W measure the environmental footprint of the digitisation of footprint of the portfolio of directly held listed equities by 20%. borrower products from subscription to electronic signature. Double green investments to €1.6 billion between 2015 and 2017. Reduce energy consumption in real estate assets by 20% between 2006 and 2020. 2015 CSR RATING FOR CNP ASSURANCES SHARES The quality of CNP Assurances’ Corporate Social Responsibility policy has been recognised by SRI rating agencies. We obtained particularly high scores for our performance in the areas of human resources management and community outreach. Ratings summary (unsolicited ratings) Rating agency CSR rating Comment Methodology Sustainalytics 83/100 (August 2014) 5/94 global insurance sector http://www.sustainalytics.com Oekom Prime C+ (October 2015) http://www.oekom-research.com/index_fr.php?content=corporate-rating 54/100 (2014) Vigeo 2015 in progress 7/37 insurance sector http://www.vigeo.com CDP 92 D (July 2015) SRI indices that include CNP Assurances CNP Assurances’ shares are included in several European SRI Recognition of Caixa Seguradora in the ﬁelds indices. In particular, its presence in the Ethibel Sustainability of CSR and innovation Index Excellence Europe, the Euronext Vigeo – Eurozone 120 In 2015, weekly magazine IstéoDinheiro ranked and Europe 120 indexes and the MSCI Global Sustainability Caixa Seguradora number two among Brazilian insurance Indexes has been conﬁrmed. companies on criteria spanning sustainable development, In 2015, the share joined the FTSE4Good Index. corporate governance, human resource management, and social and environmental responsibility, as well as innovation and quality. 8 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES Protection for everyone CNP Assurances aims to offer all policyholders guarantees that W Priority No. 1: promote access to insurance. match their daily lives, needs and budgets as closely as possible. This is an ambitious goal because of the very wide-ranging W Priority No. 2: design socially responsible products and services. situations in our various markets. W Priority No. 3: better satisfy policyholders. Adapting to different situations is our way of helping to combat ﬁnancial exclusion. In some cases, that means going beyond simply settling an insurance claim to offer policyholders innovative services to help them overcome difﬁculties. Insurassistance concept The Active Emploi product Digital innovation created – an offering combining was the leading prize winner for customers: online products, assistance services and standard for its job placement support prevention tool, satisfaction ﬁnancial beneﬁts component monitoring tool 2002 2008 2010 2013 2015 First Insurance Kit launched The Caixa Seguradora group for microentrepreneurs became the leader in microinsurance in Brazil I Priority No. 1: promote access to insurance PRODUCTS FOR ALL local welfare committees (comités sociaux) and micro-ﬁnance institutions operating according to the pawnbroker principle (crédits municipaux) was pursued in 2014, with the launch of a In France, an offer aligned with the needs term creditor insurance offer with Crédit Municipal de Marseille. of people with low incomes As the leader in the group life insurance segment, CNP Assurances In agreement with our distribution partners, we deliberately enables companies, non-proﬁts, local authorities and hospitals to offer products with low minimum premiums or investment offer all their employees the same insurance cover at the same amounts, despite the extra administrative costs. The €30 tranche price, by pooling risks and covering different generations under represented 20% of new money invested in life insurance the same policy. contracts in 2015, and 46% of regular deposits. CNP Assurances is a founding member of the Entrepreneurs de La Banque Postale Prévoyance has offered long-term dependent la Cité foundation, which aims to help microentrepreneurs obtain care insurance with simpliﬁed subscription formalities since the insurance. It is also one of the co-insurers for the foundation’s beginning of 2015. This cover, combined with public assistance, Basic Insurance Kit contracts offering death/disability and helps vulnerable policyholders stay in their homes. health cover. A total of 218 new Basic Insurance Kit contracts In 2010, CNP Assurances strengthened its ties with social were sold in 2015. In view of the slow take-up of this offer, economy stakeholders by becoming the insurer for loans CNP Assurances launched La Fabrique d’Assurance in 2015, granted by Procilia, a partner to the French government’s Action which brings together insurers and experts in various ﬁelds to Logement low-income housing loan scheme. This cooperation discuss trends in social issues and their impact on insurance. The with social economy stakeholders such as Action Logement, ﬁrst workshop focused on microinsurance, identifying needs, and examining obstacles and levers for development. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 9 PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE In Brazil, innovative microinsurance products all insurers, CNP Assurances is working on a reference grid allowing an alignment with the normal rate for people having In Brazil, the Caixa Seguradora group was the ﬁrst insurer to enter been affected by certain diseases, including cancer. the Brazilian microinsurance market, with the Amparo contract launched in 2011. More than 200,000 Amparo contracts have been sold to date. In 2015, Caixa Seguradora launched a ACCESS TO INFORMATION microcredit insurance product, Familia Tranquila, which covered 66,800 microentrepreneurs at 31 December 2015. Information and product transparency In 2015, CNP Assurances drew up a standard creditor insurance RISK SELECTION ADAPTED TO EACH POLICYHOLDER’S information leaﬂet. In accordance with regulations, this customised HEALTH PROFILE leaﬂet, provided to prospects before the contract is signed, sets out the guarantees offered in a clear and legible manner so as to CNP Assurances draws on its exceptionally deep understanding improve the future policyholder’s understanding and to facilitate of risks, acquired over its many years’ experience in personal comparison with policies offered by other companies. insurance, to regularly update and reﬁne its risk selection policy. A key aim of this policy, which takes into account the state of The level of transparency in respect of the contractual information health of individual policyholders, is to accept and pool invalidity provided to policyholders is subject to speciﬁc validation by the and disability cover to as great an extent as possible. In addition, Compliance department. Since 2015, the inclusion of a legible since 2012, the conditions of eligibility for the premium cap and balanced presentation of the beneﬁts and risks has been a applicable to low income borrowers have been relaxed. further requirement. Moreover, a speciﬁc survey was conducted in 2015 on the degree of clarity of the letters sent to beneﬁciaries Our creditor insurance rejection rate has been less than 0.2% for of death insurance policies. the past seven years. CNP Partners was selected in 2015 in the category of Best B2C CNP Assurances, covering aggravated health risks campaign for its communication around the customised Tu Vida life insurance solution designed for women in Spain, where We are resolutely committed to ensuring that individuals family solidarity rests heavily on their shoulders. The winning representing an aggravated risk have access to credit and website allows users to test the product’s various options in a insurance in line with the provisions of the AERAS Convention. quirky, modern and colourful way. Disability cover is being offered on the terms laid down in the convention to customers denied incapacity or disability CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros has been awarded a cover under standard policies. In addition to these regulatory prize for its promotion of the social role played by life insurance obligations, we offer disability cover to civil servants and selfin protecting families. employed workers. CNP Assurances is also involved in the revision of the AERAS Access to communication Convention concerning the right to be forgotten. As such, when Insuring all our futures also means offering a website that taking out creditor insurance, former cancer patients are covered is accessible to everyone. After audit, the cnp.fr website was in accordance with the general conditions of the contract, without declared 95%-compliant with France’s RGAA web accessibility being imposed a higher rate or being excluded, ﬁve years after standards, which cover such aspects as colour contrasts, the end of the treatment protocol for cancers diagnosed in keyboard accessibility, alternative texts to images, infobubbles, people aged under 15, and ﬁfteen years after the end of the page titles and prioritisation of information. treatment protocol for other cancers. Moreover, in common with I Priority No. 2: design socially responsible products and services CNP Assurances is continuing to update its offer to adapt to the latest changes in society by enhancing existing offers and developing targeted prevention services. 10 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE AN OFFER ALIGNED WITH CUSTOMER NEEDS PROMOTING GOOD HEALTH Anticipating policyholder needs A structure dedicated to prevention: In addition to studies carried out with the distribution partners, Filassistance International the Group’s entities conduct research to anticipate new needs Making life-long support for policyholders its mission, in 2003 arising from emerging social and demographic trends. For CNP Assurances pioneered the integration of targeted CNP Assurances, these studies focused in large part in 2015 assistance and prevention services in life insurance and on how the heads of microenterprises perceive their activity and long-term care insurance contracts, in particular through its their environment, as well as on their expectations in respect of Filassistance International subsidiary. online service. Filassistance offers insurance against the loss of autonomy Since 2007, La Banque Postale Prévoyance has worked with and against cardiovascular risks. It provides listening and TNS Sofres to conduct a “long-term care survey” to assess the support services for carers and people with long-term illnesses – needs of people who are starting to require long-term care. With speciﬁcally women with cancer – both medically and socially. its scientiﬁc and ﬁnancial support for an “old-age dependency” In 2015, Filassistance implemented solutions designed to prevent research chair starting in 2016, its tasks are to model demand absenteeism among the 12,000 employees of a large company. and supply of care and services related to the loss of autonomy. Solutions include the provision of assistance in the event of unexpected unavailability of childcare so as to allow employees Innovative guarantees are available covering the problems of to get to work. Moreover, its Aide aux Aidants (Assistance to loss of autonomy, job loss and ageing. In France, for example, Caregivers) offer was included on SIACI’s “My Prevention” we offer an unemployment insurance product with a reduced website, which has received numerous awards for innovation. premium or with advisory services to help the policyholder ﬁnd a new job. Protection Active Emploi provides ﬁnancial support for 6 or 24 months, plus personalised assistance such as career E-health prototype reviews, training and logistical support. To meet growing demand for interactive and instant information on health and prevention, CNP Assurances launched “Lyfe”, a pilot The Efﬁnance term creditor insurance contract for home-buyers, website for its customers and partners, in late November 2015. co-insured with La Banque Postale Prévoyance, won an award in In addition to the provision of 24/7 healthcare advice and 2013 “for its broad acceptance criteria, useful guarantees, small personalised support by videoconference, the platform offers the number of exclusions and affordability”. possibility of obtaining a medical appointment, a check-up or Assistance in ﬁnding a new job, including distribution of CVs other appropriate medical examinations with very little waiting and online career advice, has been offered to Caixa Seguradora time. policyholders who lose their jobs since 2014. Policyholders in the late stages of a critical illness can claim beneﬁts without reducing Prevention campaigns the capital built up under their policy, as well as free medication CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings conducts prevention campaigns in the event of hospitalisation or emergency care. targeting obesity and stress in its collective contracts in Cyprus. In addition, CNP Assurances deploys numerous workplace programmes to promote the health and well-being of local Trophées de l’Assuré 2015, Gold award government employees. winner: La Banque Postale Prévoyance for its Assurance Autonomie product Prevention for all The panel rewarded the performance of the dependency In 2015, CNP Assurances launched “cespetiteschoses.fr”, a insurance offer, which provides innovative beneﬁts: digital platform offering information and support and spreading W home care, with visits from post ofﬁce employees to awareness on the theme of “living well late in life”. It was promote social cohesion and to alert paramedics if designed to raise awareness, in a fun and interactive manner, of necessary; the impact that small, seemingly insigniﬁcant everyday gestures can have on people’s lives. W an intergenerational approach including the possibility of taking out cover with a third party as beneﬁciary; W consideration of the decline in purchasing power in retirement, with a 20% reduction in the premium after the age of 65 (optional) and in the event of dependency, with couples exempted from payment. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 11 PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE SERVICE QUALITY AIDS Stealing a lead on the competition, CNP Assurances has since January 2014 offered a full-online term creditor insurance Shared applications: The workstations used by the Group’s purchasing process for home-buyers who obtain ﬁnance from distribution partners enhance the quality and efﬁciency of Boursorama Banque, with a legally valid electronic signature policyholder services, while incorporating the duty to provide system. As well as reducing the time required to complete the advice. New shared and convergent quality initiatives have been process, the system also offers a secure storage solution for developed with CNP Assurances’ partners to improve the quality insurance applications and the related documents. of service for insurance advisors and policyholders. Recognised as a pioneer of full-online service in creditor insurance, A single platform for processing health questionnaires: the use CNP Assurances was selected in 2015 by ING Direct, France’s of the CNPNet platform with bank partners over the last six leading online bank, for the launch of an online mortgage. years enabled 78% of health questionnaires to be processed The Caixa Seguradora group has responded to customer calls electronically in 2015. Since 2013, policyholders have been for an extension of its online services to include the purchase able to complete the questionnaire at home, making life easier of insurance, with specialists available via a forum to assist for customers, particularly those who don’t have time to visit their customers during the process. bank branch, who need their personal medical ﬁle to ﬁll out the form, or who are joint borrowers. CNP UniCredit Vita’s website gives policyholders direct access to their insurance accounts, as well as to downloadable information The deployment of new technologies makes life easier for and claim forms. policyholders. For example, a website for reporting term creditor insurance claims set up in 2012 allows policyholders to submit A business continuity plan has been set up to prepare for the scanned claim documents electronically and to track the claim’s risk of downtime following an incident. Tests are performed each status, including by text message. year, using different scenarios, to ensure that in all the various departments, normal business operations could be quickly and efﬁciently restored. I Priority No. 3: better satisfy policyholders DOUBLING UP SATISFACTION MONITORING Satisfaction surveys are conducted annually by CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros and Group entities periodically carry out surveys among both La Banque Postale Prévoyance, and as often as monthly in policyholders and distribution partners so as to obtain a Brazil. CNP Partners has for several years held monthly meetings comprehensive picture of customer satisfaction. with distribution partners in order to gauge their view of service quality. The customer satisfaction score averaged 4.2 out of 5 In 2015, CNP Assurances carried out three quantitative in 2015. satisfaction surveys on the management processes applied to individual contracts. The Group also conducted for the ﬁrst time three face-to-face surveys aimed at grasping the level of FOLLOWING UP POLICYHOLDER REQUESTS understanding of correspondence. Whether they are carried out as part of a quality certiﬁcation CNP Assurances regularly reviews a sample of letters sent to process, pursuant to a service level agreement or for other customers in response to requests for information or complaints in purposes, these surveys help to improve customer responsiveness order to assess the quality of such letters. Fifteen checkpoints on and to provide feedback to our distribution partners. The their substance and form are used to identify any anomalies. The satisfaction rate of the beneﬁciaries of individual contracts was results are presented in reports that are given to the departments 85% in 2015. that issued the letters to help them constantly improve their service quality. CNP Assurances has recently acquired online survey software, which among other beneﬁts will allow it to send weekly questionnaires to Amétis advisors in 2016, with a view to Processing complaints more quickly improving the contract production process. In 2013, CNP Assurances committed to replying within two months of a complaint being ﬁled. Processing times have CNP Assurances carries out an annual satisfaction survey of local been reduced thanks to a major reorganisation carried out in authorities and institutions holding health, death and disability coordination with our distribution partners. Tools have been insurance contracts. Satisfaction scores are stable at between implemented to ﬁne-tune follow-up, to improve the analysis of 7 and 8 out of 10 depending on the local authority. complaints and to identify ways to enhance service quality. 12 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE In addition, a standard deﬁnition of the term “complaint” has been Internal resources have been gradually strengthened in view adopted throughout CNP Assurances. Under the new deﬁnition, of the complexity of operations. In 2015, over 300 FTEs were a complaint is any expression of discontent by a customer as dedicated to the treatment of death contracts, regardless of the regards the perceived quality of a product or service, whether date on which the death occurred. In 2015, CNP Assurances justiﬁed or not. Complaints received by CNP Assurances mainly was able to ﬁnd 59,700 beneﬁciaries of unclaimed policies, concern the purchase and claim management processes. representing a total amount paid of more than €180 million. With 10,800 complaints lodged in personal insurance in the In view of the efforts made by our teams on a daily basis and the ﬁrst half of 2015, the number of complaints remains marginal, resources deployed since 2008, we believe that the ﬁne levied involving less than 0.1% of policyholders. Nonetheless, each in 2014 by the Sanctions Committee of the French Prudential one is analysed in order to understand how we can improve Supervision and Resolution Authority (Autorité de Contrôle our service quality using the tools referred to above. In creditor Prudentiel et de Résolution – ACPR) was harsh. It should be noted insurance, CNP Assurances’ positions were maintained in 69% that CNP Assurances does not proﬁt from unclaimed amounts: of cases in 2015. income from the investment of such amounts is not recognised as Company income; rather, it is added to the amounts due to all In accordance with the marketplace decision, mediation involving policyholders, as is the case for all life insurance policies. CNP Assurances has been provided by the French Federation of Insurance Companies (Fédération française des sociétés In addition to the commitment made to the Sanctions Committee d’assurances – FFSA) since 2015. at the end of 2014 to process the 99,618 contracts not settled prior to 2007, the Company also processed 44,246 such Unclaimed settlements at CNP Assurances contracts dating from 2008 to 2010 before the end of 2015. The French law of 17 December 2007 introduced a requirement for life insurers to proactively identify any unreported deaths, and Disputes to trace and pay beneﬁciaries. The law also gave insurers the legal There were 1,431 disputes in progress at CNP Assurances at the and practical means of being informed when policyholders die. end of 2015. Sixty-nine percent of cases were won in the ﬁrst instance in 2015, 81% on appeal and 81% on submission to the highest court of appeal. I Other initiatives PROTECTING POLICYHOLDERS dedicated Intranet. Controls are performed to ensure that the procedures are applied and the Data Protection Ofﬁcer prepares an annual report. Protecting policyholders’ personal data In addition, policyholders must give their consent to the use of Personal insurance is based on knowledge of sensitive personal their email address for communications managed in a dedicated data. At CNP Assurances, protecting the conﬁdentiality of information system. The Company has undertaken, through policyholder data is central to our administrative processes and the signing of the French Union of Advertisers’ Charter on the obligations laid down in our code of conduct. Customers’ Responsible Communication, to “respect customers’ private data medical and personal information is protected by procedures when used for marketing and commercial purposes”. that comply with local regulations in each host country, and a dedicated system has been set up to keep abreast of regulatory changes. A privacy-by-design approach is being mainstreamed IT security when designing new products. CNP Assurances established a structured approach to securing its computer system more than ten years ago. It relies on a Requests for access to the personal information of policyholders security framework aligned with the best practices laid down in are facilitated by an application available on the cnp.fr website. the ISO 27001 standard and the associated guidelines. Each CNP Assurances has a Data Protection Ofﬁcer tasked with new IT project is subject to an analysis of the information security ensuring the protection of the personal data of its prospects, risks, which is reviewed and validated by a dedicated committee customers and employees. Systematically consulted before before the new service goes into production. any application involving personal data is launched, the Data In 2015, in view of the surge in cybercrime at a time when it is Protection Ofﬁcer takes part in industry discussions, leads an impossible to disregard the need for digitisation, CNP Assurances in-house network and circulates procedures, notably through a initiated a major change in its security policy by strengthening 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 13 PROTECTION FOR EVERYONE governance, adjoining detection and incident treatment systems ENCOURAGING POLICYHOLDER COMMITMENT to existing defence capacities and making users the key actors TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT in the process. Implementation in subsidiaries SRI offering The European subsidiaries comply with the European Data In personal insurance, the only “green” products are SRI funds Protection directive (95/46/EC) as transposed into national in savings products. They are offered in each of the ﬂagship law. Some, such as CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings, have unit-linked products available in the individual insurance offerings included its provisions in their code of conduct. Employees at from CNP Assurances, such as: CNP Europe Life received special training in data protection W LBPAM Responsable (http://www.labanquepostale-am.fr/isr/ in 2015. At MFPrévoyance, where medical conﬁdentiality notre_offre_isr.html); is a particular concern, employees must sign a formal pledge to uphold their obligation to maintain professional secrecy. W Ecureuil Bénéﬁce (https://www.caisse-epargne.fr/ecureuilMedical conﬁdentiality training courses are regularly given to beneﬁces-resp.aspx); MFPrévoyance employees by the medical ofﬁcer. W CNP développement durable (http://www.fongepar.fr/ The data security policy at Caixa Seguradora is also regularly DOCS/na_400001.pdf). updated, and all information is categorised by level of SRI funds were once again promoted by CNP Assurances’ conﬁdentiality to ensure appropriate treatment. Regular intrusion two major partners in 2015. At the end of the year, nearly tests are conducted to assess the efﬁcacy of the security measures. 112,000 life insurance policies included an SRI fund. SRI assets CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros has drawn up a good totalled €543 million at that date, an increase of more than 6% practice guide on data privacy, notably including its legal compared with 2014. aspects, in the aim of entrenching a culture of personal data Environmental, social and governance criteria are increasingly protection as a component of service quality. integrated into the management of the assets underlying all our CNP UniCredit Vita updates its security policy governing the traditional savings products and own-funds portfolios. A brochure protection of customer data on an annual basis. In 2015, the on “CNP Assurances’ CSR Commitment” was sent to several Compliance department commissioned internal and external thousand policyholders and included in the main materials used checks. to present CNP Assurances’ offers to its partners. In its wealth management offering developed in 2015, Product and service compliance CNP Assurances offers unit-linked products comprising directly All of the Group’s entities verify that contractual, marketing held securities. Eligible securities offered to policyholders are and advertising documents are compliant at every stage of the selected by taking into account exclusion rules on environmental development of new products. Dedicated teams, working closely (coal), social (Global Compact) and governance (sensitive with legal experts, ensure that insurance products are compliant, countries) issues applicable to ﬁnancial assets (see “Priority No. 1: and that changes within the legal framework are taken into be a responsible investor“ on page 15). account. Solutions to raise policyholders’ awareness CNP Assurances and several subsidiaries have obtained ISO 9001 certiﬁcation of their main business processes. W The Caixa Seguradora group describes the social and The certiﬁcation scope is expanded each year (at the end of environmental challenges it is facing and presents its results on 2014, operational monitoring moved up to level 2) while its website. For several years, it has provided its policyholders ensuring that previously acquired certiﬁcations are renewed. At with information on responsible consumption. In 2015, it Caixa Seguradora, the quality management system is subject to extended the process to social networks. regular audits. W Every year, CNP Assurances’ pledge to uphold the United Nations Global Compact and its responsible investing Measures in support of policyholder health strategy are highlighted in more than 19 million letters sent to The CNP Assurances Group’s core business does not have a policyholders (postal mail, email or position papers available direct effect on customers’ health. Nevertheless, the Filassistance online). Since 2011, the message is communicated to all International subsidiary has developed a series of preventive holders of endowment policies (other than unit-linked contracts), measures to assist individuals in everyday health and safety including on the annual policyholder statements. issues, in the form of loss of independence and memory loss W In 2014 for SRI Week, we organised an awareness campaign prevention assessments, as well as ergonomic assistance, for investors with our partner La Banque Postale. We proposed information services and psychological support (see “Promoting a special offer for any investment in products from the SRI good health“ on page 11). range. Our network of travelling advisors also got involved in explaining the Group’s investment approach and its SRI offer. 14 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES For a sustainable economy Our Group’s primary ﬁnancial responsibility is to secure the This commitment also extends to suppliers. An audit and commitments made to policyholders. The second is to guarantee improvement programme has been launched by CNP Assurances a steady, optimised performance year after year. to steadily enhance its suppliers’ CSR performance. In line with the belief that including socially responsible W Priority No. 1: be a responsible investor. investment criteria in the investment selection process optimises the yield-to-risk ratio over the long term, ESG screens have been W Priority No. 2: be a responsible purchaser. applied to the majority of CNP Assurances’ assets and those of its French subsidiaries over the last few years. I Priority No. 1: be a responsible investor CNP Assurances’ responsible investor story Exclusion of offshore ﬁnancial centres Best-in-class strategy Assessments put in place for the entire of energy-efﬁciency renovation equity portfolio Application of PRI work on property 2006 2008 2011 2012 2014 2015 Exclusion of producers ESG ﬁlter systematically Low-carbon strategy of land mines and cluster bombs applied to all bonds (carbon footprint, coal policy, energy efﬁciency, green investments) IN FRANCE, A STRATEGY COMBINING ESG portfolio, reﬂected in the integration of a low-carbon strategy AND CARBON MONITORING DEFINED BY in 2015. At 31 December 2015, the ESG ﬁlter covered 81% CNP ASSURANCES AND IMPLEMENTED BY ASSET of the ﬁnancial assets held by CNP Assurances and its French MANAGERS subsidiaries (see “Encouraging policyholder commitment to sustainable development“ on page 14). CNP Assurances is an insurance group. As such, it manages the assets of its policyholders and its own assets, but does not Listed equities manage assets for third parties, and delegates asset management The approach is based on best-in-class management. The activities. For CNP Assurances, the responsible investor establishment of a quarterly monitoring process has facilitated approach is deﬁned and managed internally by drawing on the dialogue on securities at risk and the prevailing challenges with SRI expertise of asset management companies Natixis AM and SRI analysts at Natixis AM since 2006 and LBPAM since 2009. LBPAM. CNP Assurances’ strategy is applied to all of its assets Whenever a problem of non-compliance with ESG criteria is and those of its French subsidiaries. The Group’s commitment to detected, constructive dialogue is engaged with the company socially responsible investing was strengthened in 2011 when concerned, either through our asset managers or during the we pledged to uphold the Principles for Responsible Investment lead-up to the Shareholders’ Meeting. When dialogue fails (PRI). to produce results, other measures can be taken, potentially In line with our responsible investing strategy, ESG screens are including a suspension of purchases of the Company’s securities gradually being applied to all asset classes across the entire or even their sale or exclusion. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 15 FOR A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTING STRATEGY (CNP Assurances France at 31 December 2015) 81 % 19 % DEDICATED MUTUAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AND SRI FUNDS PRIVATE EQUITY • Dedicated mutual funds: • Since 2010, ESG rating of OF INVESTMENTS – Exclusion from portfolio or private equity funds during due OF INVESTMENTS ESG SCREENING weighting limited based diligence PARTIAL ESG on compliance with Global • Infrastructure funds required to SCREENING Compact principles submit ESG reports – Policy on coal and sensitive • CNP Assurances invests in private countries equity funds that ﬁnance SMEs • SRI funds held in general that have difﬁculty in raising OTHER MUTUAL FUNDS asset portfolios (excluding equity capital and infrastructure unit-linked) total €2.1 billion, funds invested in renewable • Investigations into controversial CORPORATE BONDS representing 5% of the total energy, water treatment and weapons, tax havens and mutual fund portfolio waste treatment projects. embargoes • Quarterly ESG ratings Portfolio: €367m • Exclusions or restrictions based on UN Principles of Responsible Investing • Policy on coal and sensitive countries UNIT-LINKED FUNDS • €471m in green bonds • 112,000 unit-linked contracts Infrastructure and private equity purchased by policyholders include SRI or themed funds. Dedicated Portfolio: €543m mutual GOVERNMENT BONDS and Mutual AND EQUIVALENTS SRI funds funds Unit-linked • Excluded countries: funds – countries rated as “not free” and “partly free” by Freedom Corporate House Equities EQUITIES bonds – countries rated as “corrupt” Property • Best-in-class strategy by Transparency International – Quarterly ESG screening with Forests – Tax havens, AML/CFT SRI analysts at Natixis AM since 2006 and LBPAM since 2009 – If ESG screening reveals Government bonds problems and discussions with the issuer are unproductive, FORESTS further purchases may be halted or the existing holding • France’s largest private owner may be sold of woodland, with 54,351 • Vote at General Meetings hectares at end-2015 • Exclusion from portfolio or • ISO 9001 and PEFC-certiﬁed weighting limited based on sustainable management compliance with Global Compact by 50% subsidiary Société PROPERTY principles Forestière since 2003 • Managed by specialised companies based on strict speciﬁcations, • Policy on coal and sensitive • Objectives: safety, biodiversity, countries anticipate effects of climate notably regarding the environment and safety change • Sustainable management charter with Icade, “Green appendices” included in master property management contracts and club deals • Energy efﬁciency assessments for compliance with Grenelle II have been carried out on 85% of CNP Assurances’ fully owned property assets 16 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOR A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY CNP Assurances’ responsible investor approach for listed equity Mutual fund units funds supports the goal of energy and environmental transition, Companies that speculate on agricultural commodities as well as particularly with the development since 2014 by the SRI experts companies that manufacture cluster bombs and land mines are in our asset management companies of a carbon risk and excluded from dedicated mutual funds. Since 2015, exclusion opportunity approach. has been extended to the securities of companies that fail to Since 2008, CNP Assurances has chosen to exclude equities comply with the principles of the Global Compact and the issue issued by arms manufacturers whose products include land mines of coal as described in the approach taken on bonds (see above). or cluster bombs. Since 2015, it has additionally excluded all Surveys (the most recent, involving 64 companies, was extractive companies producing coal and coal-based energy conducted in late 2015) ensure that all the funds held by the when more than 15% of their revenue is derived from thermal coal. Group, including open-ended funds, exclude producers of cluster bombs and land mines. The issue of sensitive countries is also monitored: investigation on Carbon footprint of the ﬁnancial portfolio the treatment of tax havens and embargoes in 2015, inclusion in In line with its commitment under the Montreal Carbon the due diligence questionnaire and exclusion in new dedicated Pledge in May 2015, CNP Assurances publishes and mutual funds. measures the carbon footprint of its ﬁnancial portfolio. The measure initially concerns the portfolio of directly held Furthermore, CNP Assurances has purchased SRI mutual funds in listed equities. the amount of €2.1 billion, or 5% of assets of all mutual funds held At 31 December 2015, the footprint is estimated at at 31 December 2015. For details of policyholder investments 0.44 t. eq.CO2/thousand euros invested. CNP Assurances in SRI funds, see “Encouraging policyholder commitment to has set a goal of reducing the end-2015 level by 20% sustainable development“ on page 14. by 2020, notably through dialogue with the companies whose shares it holds. This calculation is an estimate of Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by portfolio A RESPONSIBLE SHAREHOLDER companies without adjustment for duplications, based on the portfolio’s asset value. Systematic exercise of voting rights: since 2005, CNP Assurances has followed a policy of shareholder activism by systematically In addition to this indicator, which does not necessarily take voting at the Shareholders’ Meetings of the listed companies in its into account initiatives taken to further the energy transition, portfolio. In 2015, CNP Assurances voted at the Shareholders’ CNP Assurances supports methodological developments Meetings of companies representing 99.9% of the portfolio of in measuring companies’ carbon impact and their impact French equities and around 20 European issuers. In all, we in respect of the environmental and energy transition, attended 102 meetings and analysed 1,892 resolutions, voting including those related to avoided emissions. against 21.30% of the resolutions put to the vote. When we had issues with proposed resolutions, we endeavoured to talk to the companies concerned ahead of the meetings. Bonds Voting principles are laid down by senior management. The core objective is to protect the rights of minority shareholders who W Government bonds and equivalents: ESG screening excludes are investing to support the investee’s long-term growth. Shaped sensitive countries rated as “not free” and “partly free” by Freedom House, and countries rated as “corrupt” by in part by investor concerns, these principles are pragmatically Transparency International, as well as tax havens. applied to all companies in the portfolio, taking into account each one’s characteristics, industry and regulatory environment. W Corporate bonds: issuers are given quarterly ESG ratings, and can be excluded from the portfolio or have their weighting limited on the basis of their compliance with the principles SUSTAINABLY MANAGING PROPERTY ASSETS of the Global Compact. Since 2008, CNP Assurances has chosen to exclude bonds issued by arms manufacturers whose With €10.2 billion in property assets in France based on net products include land mines or cluster bombs. Since 2015, it book values, CNP Assurances is an important player in this has additionally excluded all extractive companies producing market. Management of its property assets is entrusted to coal and coal-based energy when more than 15% of their specialised companies on the basis of strict speciﬁcations that revenue is derived from thermal coal. address the need to preserve the environment and ensure the safety of the properties’ users. These include the Sustainable Property Management Charter adopted with Icade in 2008, and Disinvestment in the coal sector the establishment in 2014 of a “green works charter” to factor in In 2015, CNP Assurances sold nearly €300 million in the impact of all co-owned property management agreements on corporate bonds issued by companies that extract coal the environment, and on the health and safety of users. and produce coal-based energy. At the end of 2015, it no longer had any direct holdings of listed equities or bonds issued by companies that derive more than 25% of their revenue from thermal coal. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 17 FOR A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY Property assets: improved energy performance €471 million is invested directly in bonds related to speciﬁc environmental projects, or green bonds. CNP Assurances’ maintenance and renovation programmes for the property assets in the portfolio constantly aim to make the Thanks to progress in its low-carbon strategy in 2015, properties more energy efﬁcient. Renovation projects are carried CNP Assurances achieved its initial goal and has now committed out to the highest environmental standards (18% of property to bringing its investments in the energy and environmental assets under direct management are certiﬁed to HQE, THPE, BBC transition sector to €1.6 billion by the end of 2017, a tripling of or Bream Very Good standards). its assets between 2014 and 2017. Since 2009, an environmental audit has been systematically At the end of 2015, with management company Meridiam, carried out on all newly acquired properties. In 2015, as part CNP Assurances launched the “Meridiam Transition” infrastructure of its low-carbon strategy, CNP Assurances signed the Energy fund to ﬁnance innovative development projects related to the Efﬁciency Charter for Commercial Buildings, thereby illustrating energy transition, local services such as heating systems or its desire to become more involved in the green building sector. energy from recovered waste, electricity and gas networks, and innovative renewable energy. A total of €100 million had been A general audit to determine an energy committed at 31 December 2015. performance target Support for SMEs To meet recent requirements introduced by France’s Grenelle I and II laws, and pending the publication of the relevant enabling Operating in the private equity business since 1992, documents, 112 of CNP Assurances’ fully owned property assets CNP Assurances is one of the world’s top 50 institutional have already been assessed to measure their energy efﬁciency. investors (number two in France) in private equity funds (2015 EPI Action plan scenarios adapted to each building have been ranking). Be they innovative start-ups or SMEs with an established deﬁned in order to reduce CO2 emissions and energy use. presence in their market, operating in the high-tech sector or established industrial segments, these companies play a strategic CNP Assurances has already rolled out a €150 million work role in strengthening France’s economic fabric, creating jobs and programme within this framework. Ultimately, this work will attracting foreign investment. We have continued our strategy reduce the energy consumption of the entire property portfolio of investing to support the real economy, both directly through by 20% by 2020, in comparison with 2006. co-ﬁnancing deals and indirectly through specialised funds. CNP Assurances supports businesses in difﬁculty through speciﬁc INFRASTRUCTURE AND UNLISTED EQUITIES, funds, with €128 million committed in 2015. THE RIGHT VEHICLES FOR FUTURE CHALLENGES In addition, MFPrévoyance invested €7 million in funds supporting mid-tier companies and employment in renewable Social information used to manage private equity energy projects. and infrastructure investments since 2010 ESG ratings are awarded based on the due diligence process FORESTS: AN ENVIRONMENTAL OPPORTUNITY carried out ahead of any new private equity investment. A total of 15 private equity funds were rated in 2015. In addition, CNP Assurances has invested in several socially beneﬁcial funds Integrating environmental issues in woodland for a total amount of nearly €135 million at 31 December 2015. management processes Examples include ﬁnancing small businesses that have trouble CNP Assurances is France’s largest private owner of woodland, raising capital due to social barriers, and supporting SMEs with 54,351 hectares at 31 December 2015. Société Forestière, facing ﬁnancial hardship. a 50%-owned subsidiary, applies sustainable management CSR reporting is also used for new infrastructure investments. In techniques that help to prevent ﬁres, promote biodiversity and 2015, 52% of infrastructure funds took part in this reporting or anticipate the effects of climate change. In 2003, in addition to voluntarily provided their own CSR reporting. ISO 9001 certiﬁcation, all of CNP Assurances’ woodland assets were certiﬁed by the Pan European Forest Council (PEFC), which Investments in funds supporting the energy and guarantees that the timber comes from sustainably managed environmental transition forests. At 31 December 2015, CNP Assurances had €45 million Carbon sinks in France and Brazil invested in private equity funds in the clean energy, clean industry and clean tech sector. Investments in renewable energy In 2015, tree growth in CNP Assurances’ forests helped to infrastructure and water and waste treatment represented total sequester 539,020 tonnes of carbon dioxide. After deducting assets of €187 million at 31 December 2015. An additional timber sold or cut down during the year, a net 290,584 tonnes of carbon dioxide was added to the sequestered total. 18 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOR A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY Since 2007, the Caixa Seguradora group has been offsetting Nature. Société Forestière also prepared a management plan for its carbon emissions by ﬁnancing NGO Iniciativa Verde’s the European Natura 2000 network “special protection area” tree-planting programmes in the Atlantic forest (6,600 trees at in the Paradis forest (in France’s Eure et Loir department). It has 31 December 2015), thus earning the subsidiary CarbonFree undertaken to preserve birds of European signiﬁcance on this certiﬁcation. The management of these forests in accordance site, by avoiding forestry work during their reproduction period with biodiversity principles also provides an income for for instance. The management plan was approved by the forestry disadvantaged local communities and an opportunity for them administration in November 2015. It provides a guarantee of to acquire new skills. Operations organised by CNP Assurances sustainable forest stewardship. Woodland management also have added 5,704 trees to these plantations. prevents soil erosion and ensures water ﬁltration and puriﬁcation. The Caixa Seguradora group’s reforestation operations promote Anticipating climate change biodiversity, protect water resources and contribute to soil In 2001, in compliance with France’s Forestry Act, conservation. CNP Assurances approved a sustainable management charter deﬁning the commitments of Société Forestière, the company in charge of managing its woodland. These commitments include DEPLOYING ESG SCREENING IN INTERNATIONAL managing woodland sustainably, protecting biodiversity and SUBSIDIARIES proactively planning for the impact of climate change. The Caixa Seguradora group excludes certain industries from The climate change issue is a key factor in managing our its equity and government and corporate bond portfolios. At forests. In order to ensure the long-term health and value of CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, when choosing among the woodland, the management company selects transitional investments with equivalent risk and yield proﬁles, priority is tree species adapted to current and future climates and pays given to those with the best social and/or environmental proﬁle. increasing attention to the soil moisture reserves in areas where At 31 December 2015, 22% of its assets were dedicated to new trees are being planted. supporting projects in the real economy or with demanding ESG criteria. In 2015, CNP UniCredit Vita applied the exclusion Protecting biodiversity rules deﬁned by CNP Assurances covering sensitive securities Société Forestière continued its actions in favour of biodiversity and countries to its bond portfolio, representing 47% of ﬁnancial in 2015. It reinforced the monitoring of the bird population in assets. the Gaudinière forest in partnership with the association Perche I Priority No. 2: be a responsible purchaser The Group’s larger entities, CNP Assurances and the Nearly all of CNP Assurances’ suppliers of goods and intellectual Caixa Seguradora group, were the ﬁrst to integrate CSR or other services are based in France. The use of subcontractors principles into their sourcing policy. is mostly limited to intellectual services, as well as printing, mailing, enveloping, archiving, bulk data entry, call centre and maintenance services. CNP ASSURANCES – FULFILLING A COMMITMENT ON AN EVERYDAY BASIS THE CAIXA SEGURADORA GROUP – CSR CLAUSES CNP Assurances’ CSR principles are also put into practice IN ALL CONTRACTS by the Purchasing department, with all buyers aware of these issues and most of them trained in CSR compliance. The Group’s Since 2008, the Caixa Seguradora group has included Ethical Purchasing Charter and the code of ethics govern buying CSR clauses in its supplier contracts based on the Global practices. Compact principles (ILO, the ﬁght against organised crime and drug trafﬁcking, the environment, combating fraud and The main calls for tenders and consultations include a CSR money laundering). Contracts signed before 2008 have component that proposals must address in order to be considered. been amended to include these provisions. Suppliers and Having pledged to uphold the United Nations Global Compact, subcontractors working for the Caixa Seguradora group CNP Assurances systematically promotes its commitment to pledge to comply with regulations and act responsibly towards human rights among subcontractors and suppliers. Agreements the environment. Non-compliance is grounds for termination include contractual clauses to protect workers. A CSR assessment of the contract or other appropriate legal responses. of key suppliers is performed by EcoVadis (see “A platform for supplier ESG audits” on page 20). 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 19 FOR A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY A PLATFORM FOR SUPPLIER ESG AUDITS Supplier assessments are requested for major tenders and approvals, as is the EcoVadis rating. At the same time, an CNP Assurances has signed a partnership agreement with annual rating campaign is conducted among CNP Assurances’ EcoVadis to pool supplier environmental, social and ethical 200 biggest suppliers. At 31 December 2015, 153 suppliers performance tracking processes. The information is compiled representing 45.4% of total purchases had been assessed. through a collaborative platform that covers 150 business sectors The “CNP Assurances’ CSR Commitment” leaﬂet has also been and 95 countries. included in tender documents since last July. Following the audit, suppliers receive detailed feedback on their CSR practices, including a rating in four categories (environment, social, ethics, responsible purchasing) and a list of their strengths and areas for improvement. I Other initiatives COMBATING MONEY LAUNDERING, TERRORISM ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES AND FRAUD All subsidiaries provide ethical guidelines through their standard operating procedures, charters or codes. A shared requirement As a ﬁnancial intermediary, we are deeply involved in the Codes for all entities ﬁght against money laundering, the funding of terrorism and Procedures are in place to guarantee the traceability of all fund fraud. Our business model, in which a lot of transactions are transfers, to prevent corruption. performed by intermediaries, has shaped the related controls. The tasks entrusted by the Group to intermediaries are described Updated and expanded in 2010, the CNP Assurances code of in the distribution agreements between CNP Assurances and its conduct sets out standard operating procedures. It is posted on partners. the Intranet and features in the Employee Orientation Guide for new hires. All employees were reminded of the rules governing Dedicated teams corporate gifts and beneﬁts, which are listed in the code of conduct, as well as in that of the Cypriot subsidiary. All other Supported by 20 employees, a speciﬁc unit is dedicated entities in the Group also have guidelines, speciﬁcations and to these controls at CNP Assurances, and any employee can regulations. The launch of Caixa Seguradora’s new code of check the Group-wide anti-money laundering procedures on the ethics at the end of 2015 was an opportunity for employees to Intranet. Similar arrangements are in place in all subsidiaries, in make an ofﬁcial commitment by signing the document. compliance with local constraints and the principles adopted by the Group. Some more exposed professions have speciﬁc codes: Speciﬁc training W The CNP Assurances code of conduct includes rules on conﬂicts of interest and gifts, and an ethical purchasing guide provides Training programmes are carried out regularly in subsidiaries practical guidance on applying the 2006 purchasing code of with support from the corporate Risk Management department. ethics in key situations encountered by the Company’s buyers; Newcomers and employees who have changed jobs are systematically trained at CNP Assurances (115 employees in W Similarly, a speciﬁc code of ethics spells out standards for sales representatives of the Amétis network, while the Compliance 2015), as well as at CNP UniCredit Vita and CNP TI. Moreover, unit veriﬁes that they comply with the regulations applicable an e-learning module developed in partnership with the French to insurance sales. Federation of Insurance Companies and several major insurers, taken in 2014 by CNP Assurances employees in accordance None of the Group’s entities makes donations to political parties. with their exposure proﬁle, was rolled out in 2015 to partners In countries where such donations are not illegal, subsidiaries, offering high-end products. such as CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, speciﬁcally prohibit them in their code of ethics. 20 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOR A SUSTAINABLE ECONOMY In Italy, a specialised committee of internal and external legal A clear set of procedures governing experts is tasked with monitoring the implementation of the the management of ﬁnancial assets organisational model for the ﬁght against corruption and illegal behaviour, approved annually by the Board of Directors. This ethical vigilance also applies to CNP Assurances’ asset management, particularly for government bonds where the country’s position in the Transparency International index is one Targeted training of three exclusionary criteria. In France, training based on the code of conduct was dispensed two years ago to all managers with supervisory roles, who then At CNP Assurances, the ﬁght against corruption extends to trained their staff with the help of a video and a booklet. purchasing, and purchasing contracts include a standard CSR clause requiring suppliers to commit to combating corruption, The relevant employees of CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings including on the part of their own suppliers and subcontractors. and the network receive annual training on developments in know-your-customer and acceptance procedures. CORPORATE INCOME TAX The CNP Assurances Group is primarily made up of insurance companies and companies that provide services to individuals, as well as a number of ﬁnancial investment vehicles. Corporate income tax payments Europe 2015 (in € millions) France Latin America excluding France Total Corporate income tax (370) (315) (23) (708) In addition, the Group’s insurance companies in France paid more than €1 billion in taxes on behalf of policyholders. Exclusion of sensitive countries corruption, as determined by Freedom House and Transparency International. CNP Assurances formalised its policy of excluding offshore ﬁnancial centres at the end of 2014. In line with its commitment All operations in these countries are excluded, and purchases are as a responsible insurer and investor, and its status as a public prohibited across all asset segments. company, CNP Assurances has drawn up a list of prohibited A compliance review of the assets in these countries has been countries covering all of its activities, extending the exclusion performed, and the results were presented to the Board of beyond the list of countries prohibited as part of the ﬁght against Directors in early 2015. The volumes involved were limited by money laundering, terrorist ﬁnancing and non-cooperation in virtue of the fact that most of the principles have been in place for tax matters to include countries identiﬁed as tax havens based a long time. The divestment of the remaining assets is planned on the Tax Justice Network indices, as well as those posing by 2017. serious problems with regard to democracy, human rights and 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 21 Be an attractive employer By promoting each employee’s professional development, W Priority No. 1: develop skills in line with the Group’s strategy. CNP Assurances develops the skills that will make the Group successful today and tomorrow. The Group’s active professional W Priority No. 2: provide a working environment that fosters well-being and performance. equality policy is used to train young people, notably through combined work-study programmes, to help people with W Priority No. 3: roll out a robust policy on gender equality in disabilities to enter the workforce and to promote gender equality the workplace. in the workplace. I Priority No. 1: develop skills in line with the Group’s strategy HUMAN RESOURCES PLANNING – PRUDENT EMPLOYEE MANAGEMENT Number of Group employees The CNP Assurances Group had a total of 4,740 employees at 31 December 2015, representing an increase of 1% compared with 2014. Headcount of entities Country 2015 2014 2013 CNP Assurances France 3,006 3,009 3,095 Caixa Seguradora group Brazil 863 799 813 CNP UniCredit Vita Italy 163 163 158 CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings Cyprus/Greece 285 283 290 CNP Partners Spain, Italy, France 176 164 152 MFPrévoyance France 76 76 75 La Banque Postale Prévoyance France 54 63 62 CNP Santander Insurance * Ireland, Italy 44 CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros Argentina 65 69 79 CNP Europe Life Ireland 8 10 14 CONSOLIDATED TOTAL – GROUP 4,740 4,705 4,809 * CNP Santander Insurance is the new subsidiary acquired in 2014 with Banco Santander CNP Assurances manages its workforce carefully, relying on the The stabilisation of the permanent workforce resulted from human resources planning process it initiated in 2013/2014 contrasting trends: and expanded in 2015. CNP Assurances’ permanent workforce changed little in 2015 (-0.1%), allowing the Group to continue W a persistently large number of retirements, although this trend is slowing in view of the age structure and changes in regulations to grow in line with its strategy. relating to pensions; W constant vigilance in replacing people who leave the Company, depending on changes within the Company, in a constrained economic environment; 22 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER W external recruitment targeting new or speciﬁc technical skills W an active policy of internal mobility, with most vacant positions related to digital, skills-based or managerial developments; ﬁlled by internal candidates. Characteristics of headcount 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Percentage of employees with permanent employment contracts 96% 96% 0% 100% Percentage of women 60% 60% 0% 100% Average age of permanent employees 43.4 years 43.2 years n/a 100% Virtually all of the Group’s employees (98%) are covered by local insurance industry collective bargaining agreements. The only exceptions, in accordance with local regulations, are for 8 employees in Ireland and for 21 in Argentina. Age pyramid 2015 2014 65 years and more 60-64 years 55-59 years 50-54 years 45-49 years 40-44 years 35-39 years 30-34 years 25-29 years 20-24 years Under 20 years 20% 15% 10% 5% 0 5% 10% 15% 20% CNP Assurances’ workforce includes 131 civil servants seconded wish to pursue a degree (see “Training – a strong and sustained from Caisse des Dépôts, 58% of whom have management status. commitment” on page 25) or those who wish to move to or The average length of service within the Group is 13 years, and train for a new position. In 2015, 72% of permanent positions is stable compared with 2014. were ﬁlled by internal candidates, providing scope for targeted external hiring to strengthen the core skills needed to implement A targeted hiring policy for CNP Assurances the Group’s strategy, to ﬁll new positions or open up new areas of development (high-end digital skills), or to secure our processes CNP Assurances has for several years had a policy focused on and comply with tougher regulatory requirements. internal mobility. Its twofold objective is to combine the need to manage the workforce in a more constrained environment that In 2015, most of the positions open to external candidates related requires more careful management of internal career paths to ﬁnance, actuarial analysis or risk management, or to sales. and to capitalise on in-house knowledge and expertise. The With a view to ensuring growth in digital technologies, policy is part of the human resources planning process initiated CNP Assurances increased its visibility as an employer brand on in 2013/2014 and expanded in 2015. It results in the vast social networks in 2015, and is now present on LinkedIn, Twitter majority of vacancies being ﬁlled with skills available internally and Viadeo. and external recruitment being focused on skills not already present within the Group. As such, internal mobility is boosted by helping employees to develop and implement their career plans, particularly those who 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 23 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Employees hired by the Group 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Number of new hires 535 388 +38% 100% Percentage of new hires with permanent employment contracts 67% 62% +8% 100% Departures from the Group 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Total departures 462 473 -2.3% 100% W dismissals 88 71 +24% 100% W terminations by mutual agreement 21 13 +61% 100% W resignations 125 159 -21% 100% W retirements 64 75 -15% 100% W departures at the end of ﬁxed-term contracts 154 145 +6% 100% Turnover rate 6.4% 6.7% -4.5% 100% Turnover within the Group’s entities reﬂects varying situations: A human resources planning process built over it is low at CNP Assurances (3.7%), and much higher at time for the beneﬁt of the various stakeholders La Banque Postale Prévoyance (26%) and MFPrévoyance (11%). Caixa Seguradora maintained a turnover rate of 13% in 2015. Since 2013/2014, CNP Assurances has implemented a human CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings reported a turnover rate of resources planning process involving all stakeholders. 3.16% in 2015, down 60% compared with 2014, despite the Alongside the stated policy of opening vacant positions to internal economic climate. Nearly one departure of a ﬁxed employee candidates, professional development was further boosted by the out of every two at CNP Assurances was a retirement, which is programme of personalised support for employees in drawing consistent with the age structure. up and implementing a career plan. Thus, in 2015, more than 373 employees were able to beneﬁt from internal mobility and Mergers/acquisitions/disposals/restructuring 125 were promoted. Internationally, two developments impacted the Group’s scope Every year, managers are asked to conduct a performance review of consolidation in 2015, within Ireland the consolidation of with each member of their team. Across the Group, 96% of CNP Santander Insurance, the new subsidiary resulting from the employees had a performance review in 2015. CNP Assurances partnership between CNP Assurances and Banco Santander, revisited its annual appraisal interview in 2015. Now paperless, and in Spain the sale of the CNP BVP subsidiary to Barclays. it has taken the name of “annual performance review” and None of the Group’s entities carried out a restructuring plan consolidates this special opportunity for dialogue between during the year. manager and employee. It allows participants to summarise the events of the past year, highlight strengths and areas for improvement, and agree on expectations and objectives for the coming year. 24 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER TRAINING – A STRONG AND SUSTAINED COMMITMENT 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Number of training hours 103,346 95,019 +8.7% 100% Percentage of employees who received training 88% 87% +1% 100% At CNP Assurances, the number of training hours fell slightly in Elsewhere in the Group, more people received training in virtually 2015, edging down by 1.2% compared with 2014, primarily all entities in 2015. The main training areas were insurance due to the fact that annual performance reviews were carried out techniques and Solvency II, followed by computer/ofﬁce systems, later in the year. sales and marketing, personal development, management skills and languages. In addition, during the last three years, targeted A wide range of training courses training initiatives have been organised to expand the risk management skills base. Individual training needs and requests The development of employees’ skills is central to CNP Assurances’ are generally discussed during annual performance reviews. priorities, as a means of capitalising on its image and expertise, Group training needs are analysed when the annual training and to facilitate internal mobility. This is evidenced by training plans are drawn up. budgets, which average approximately 5% of the payroll. In 2015, more than 93% of employees attended a training course, In 2015, the Caixa Seguradora group developed training and 67 employees were able to work towards a diploma, with programmes in behavioural studies, in organisational culture and a view to achieving their professional goals. Over the past three in an online course system. Encouraged by senior management, years, more than 7% of permanent employees across all levels CNP Partners this year devoted more money to training, enabling of the Company and all areas have beneﬁted from individual 93% of employees to beneﬁt. In 2015, CNP UniCredit Vita training leading to a diploma. continued to provide training. Its diversity training, initially mandatory for all members of middle and senior management, At CNP Assurances, training provided in 2015 covered: was made compulsory for all staff. The company also tested W managerial skills, notably to accompany the implementation of training on smartworking and telework. the new annual performance review; W support for the implementation of strategic development, USE OF OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS – LIMITED support for the commercial business lines and the associated AND SUPERVISED OUTSOURCING customer relationship workshops, and training for new CRM tools, or product training, and particular support this year for CNP Assurances makes limited use of outside contractors for nonmanagement proﬁles through technical insurance training; core business activities. There are 46 security staff, 73 cleaning W personal skills training for employees through a range of staff (including regional ofﬁces), 23 maintenance workers cross-cutting courses. and 8 receptionists, i.e., a total of 157 people, compared with 149 in 2014. IT operations have been transferred to an Lastly, the 2015 incentive scheme included awareness raising for intercompany partnership established in 2012 (CNP TI), which all employees about digital culture. employs 365 people. CNP Assurances also factored the reform of vocational training The use of temporary staff grew signiﬁcantly in volume in 2015 into its processes in 2015. The most noteworthy steps were due to new guidelines for temporary reinforcements. the revision of the procedure for access to degree courses in connection with the individual training account, the inclusion There is signiﬁcant use of outside contractors at the of the professional review and the focus on professional Caixa Seguradora group and CNP Partners, which outsource development. their IT operations (276 contractors). Like CNP Assurances, both entities ensure that the employees concerned are accorded the full protection of applicable labour legislation (see “Priority No. 2: be a responsible purchaser” on page 19). 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 25 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER I Priority No. 2: provide a working environment that fosters well-being and performance The Group’s human resources policy focuses consistently on an agreement to pay additional discretionary proﬁt-sharing, an developing conditions that foster employee well-being at work amendment to the discretionary proﬁt-sharing agreement, and and promoting personal enrichment and group performance. It an agreement extending the agreement on gender equality until relies on a signiﬁcant social component and the deployment of the end of 2016. personalised support measures for employees, and employee/ The 2015-2018 agreement on the employment of people employer relations combining a variety of channels. with disabilities: the six successive agreements already signed since 1995 have shaped corporate policy and helped change views about employing people with disabilities, implement EMPLOYEE/EMPLOYER RELATIONS COMBINING A practical measures and develop partnerships with specialised VARIETY OF CHANNELS organisations. In this seventh agreement, the signatories reafﬁrm their commitment to promoting measures to help people with Employee representation and protection disabilities to enter and remain in the workforce. This shared political commitment is one of the human resources policies Social dialogue is a priority throughout the CNP Assurances Group. developed by CNP Assurances in keeping with the Group’s There is at least one employee representative in all subsidiaries ethical, moral and civic values. except CNP Europe Life, which has only 8 employees, and the new subsidiary CNP Santander Insurance, acquired in 2014, Note that two agreements were signed in 2015 at which has 44 employees. The Caixa Seguradora group does La Banque Postale Prévoyance: mandatory annual negotiation not have a staff delegate. However, in accordance with the and proﬁt-sharing. At MFPrévoyance, a collective agreement rules set out in the union of insurance workers’ agreement, a on the introduction of compulsory health insurance, a collective representative of employees and the union president participate agreement on wages and a collective agreement on the in meetings between employee and management representatives. PERCO voluntary pension plan were signed. A statutory Ninety-eight percent of the Group’s employees are covered by proﬁt-sharing agreement for employees was signed at the an insurance industry collective bargaining agreement (except Caixa Seguradora group in 2015. in Ireland and for some employees in Argentina in accordance Spending on social matters for Group employees represented with the law). A total of 192 meetings between employees and 1.6% of the payroll in 2015. management were held at the Group’s various entities. The European dimension Working with employee representative bodies at CNP Assurances The European Works Council had one Ordinary Meeting in 2015 to present the report on the Group’s activities, projects In keeping with CNP Assurances’ tradition and past agreements and results. on union rights, the Human Resources department maintains regular, high-quality dialogue with the various employee CNP Assurances’ focus on managerial representative bodies (National and European Works Councils, employee representatives and Occupational Health, Safety and communication Working Conditions Committee) and with union representatives, Since 2015, the principles of action, initiative, creativity, giving due consideration to the roles of everyone involved and customer focus and trust have guided the behaviour of managers going beyond compliance with regulatory requirements. and their teams. In addition to the HR Intranet, which centralises information from Agreements to improve employment conditions the Group on its various human resources activities, managerial CNP Assurances has agreements covering the main areas: communication is crucial for fostering relations with employees. classiﬁcation and remuneration through the labour adjustment Over the last three years, CNP Assurances has rolled out a agreement, working hours (ARTT agreement), gender equality, number of initiatives to promote the role of managers and help employees with disabilities, union resources, psychosocial risks, them to communicate with their teams. Various management PERCO voluntary pension plan, discretionary proﬁt-sharing, circles have been identiﬁed and communication processes have statutory proﬁt-sharing, etc. There is also an action plan for the been established, including conference calls with the CEO, intergenerational contract designed to put in place initiatives to special seminars, employee discussion forums, etc. help young people and seniors enter and stay in the workforce By way of illustration, in 2015, the seminar for 250 senior and develop their skills. In 2015, CNP Assurances signed an managers enabled them to work on CNP Assurances’ digital agreement within the scope of the mandatory annual negotiation, ambition. 26 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER PREVENTION OF PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS stress and everyday conﬂicts. In 2015, it received approximately AND PROMOTION OF SUPPORT SYSTEMS 40 referrals, most of which concerned requests for advice and AT CNP ASSURANCES support. A dedicated commission: a commission set up under the 2012 As a service company, CNP Assurances has paid particular agreement with trade union representatives on psychosocial risks attention to preventing stress and psychosocial risks over the last (notably to handle situations involving groups of employees) ten years. Through its various managerial training and other more meets quarterly in each of the Paris, Angers and Arcueil facilities. speciﬁc initiatives (in-house social mediation, outside counselling All employees also have access to a 24/7 hotline all year round available to all employees, independent occupational health (Filassistance), if they need to talk to someone. service, etc.), it has created an environment that helps limit the occurrence of situations of risk. It remains attentive to trends in business conduct, both in terms MULTIPLE INITIATIVES IN EACH SUBSIDIARY of information systems and expected behaviour – as regards digitisation for instance – in a changing work environment. The All CEOs worldwide follow stress management training. The April 2012 agreement with trade unions on this subject provides Caixa Seguradora group has also developed broad well-being a practical and shared framework, through the mechanisms it at work programmes, and organises a “health in the workplace” describes, for the identiﬁcation, prevention and management of week every year. It also has an internal committee tasked psychosocial risks. with preventing accidents, identifying risks and implementing preventive actions. The ﬁrst review of psychosocial risks and stress provided for in the agreement was carried out in the second quarter of 2013 MFPrévoyance’s Occupational Health, Safety and Working in order to analyse employees’ perceptions of their working Conditions Committee started paying particular attention to conditions and their experiences. It resulted in an action plan that psychosocial risks in 2012, and a special training course ran over the term of the agreement. A second audit to measure has been included in the management training programme. the effects of the actions undertaken was performed at the end CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros’ code of ethics provides of 2015. for the implementation of accident and occupational illness prevention programmes. CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings has a An anonymous group discussion platform set out under the 2012 team dedicated to regularly communicating on workplace health agreement has been in place since 2013. Managers answer and safety risks, and has supported the Ministry of Labour’s the questions raised in plenary sessions and the questions and “health and safety week” for several years. CNP UniCredit Vita answers are then posted on the platform. Each year, 50 meetings introduced stress management for middle management in 2014. are held within this framework. Lastly, a mutual insurer is responsible for occupational risk In-house mediation: the in-house mediation service aims to prevent prevention measures for CNP Partners employees. and deal with allegations of harassment and discrimination, ORGANISATION OF WORKING HOURS Annual number of hours At consolidated Group level, annual working hours range from 1,575 to 1,980, depending on local legislation. At CNP Assurances and MFPrévoyance, full-time corresponds to 1,575 hours per year (ARTT agreement of November 2001). 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Percentage of employees working part-time 14% 14% 0% 100% Number of overtime hours 30,534 23,918 +28% 100% Percentage of overtime hours 0.38% 0.29% +31% 100% The subsidiaries in Italy and Brazil are the main contributors to overtime, with a signiﬁcant increase in Brazil and at CNP Assurances. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 27 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Development of part-time work and ﬂexitime more of the total working time. Part-time employees are entitled to all of the same beneﬁts as full-time employees. Apart from one employee at CNP Partners, all employees who work part-time within the Group’s entities choose to do In addition, 64% of the workforce at CNP Assurances have so. At Group level, part-time employees represent 14% of the personalised working hours to help them achieve a better workforce. For CNP Assurances, 21% of employees worked partwork-life balance and organise their working hours in accordance time in 2015, with almost all of them choosing to work 80% or with their professional obligations. REMUNERATION Year-on-year Average annual Average gross salary by country 2015 2014 change increase by country France EUR 57,698 EUR 55,936 +3.1% 0.4% Brazil BRL 66,029 BRL 64,337 +2.6% 7.4% Italy EUR 55,008 EUR 53,778 +2.3% 0% Cyprus/Greece EUR 37,133 EUR 36,052 +3% 0% Spain EUR 49,099 EUR 48,668 +0.9% 2.24% Ireland (excluding Santander) EUR 66,933 EUR 57,532 +16.2% n.c. Argentina ARS 382,680 ARS 292,122 +31% 31.5% For the consolidated CNP Assurances Group, the average In 2015, the Group’s compensation policy was revisited in the pay rise was 2.15% across the board, with variations among context of Solvency II, notably to make it compatible with the “Fit countries due to inﬂation, particularly in Argentina. and Proper” standards. At CNP Assurances, €7,161,671 was paid out under the discretionary proﬁt-sharing plan in 2015, €17,151,466 was An individual report on these issues was distributed to each paid out under the statutory proﬁt-sharing plan, and employee of CNP Assurances for the ﬁrst time in 2015. €505,586 was paid in proﬁt-related bonuses to seconded This approach reﬂects, through customised information, the civil servants. All CNP Assurances, MFPrévoyance and Company’s determination to make its remuneration and La Banque Postale Prévoyance employees are covered by beneﬁts policy comprehensible, as part of its commitment supplementary health and death/disability insurance, a separate to its employees. long-term care insurance policy and a life insurance/pension plan with matching employer contributions. They are also eligible to participate in a “time savings account” and invest in a PERCO voluntary pension plan. HEALTH AND SAFETY Absenteeism The Group absenteeism rate rose very slightly in 2015. Year-on-year 2015 2014 change Level of coverage Absenteeism rate 6.35% 6.28% +1.1% 100% Absenteeism rate excluding maternity leave 5.39% 5.15% +4.7% 100% 28 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Health and safety No occupational illnesses were reported in the Group. There were no deaths resulting from a workplace accident in 2015. 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Number of workplace accidents 28 18 +55% 100% Occupational illnesses 0 1 -100% 100% Number of workplace accidents within the Group programmes are organised on a regular basis, and include ﬂu vaccination campaigns. 34 33 Similar initiatives are organised by Caixa Seguradora, including 30 30 consultations with an on-site nutritionist, assessments of the 28 programme to prevent workplace risks, and on-site medical check-ups. CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings has teams in both 23 Cyprus and Greece responsible for informing employees about 19 18 health and safety risks. CNP UniCredit Vita relies on an important Italian law that lays down a strict health and safety framework in the workplace. Workplace health and safety agreements In all, 98% of the Group’s employees are covered by collective agreements dealing with the main health and safety issues. The Occupational Health, Safety and Working Conditions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Committee acts on behalf of all CNP Assurances’ employees as well as outside service providers working on its premises. It Almost all workplace accidents took place at CNP Assurances, meets once a month. Every year, a programme is drawn up to and only half of them resulted in time lost, a level comparable prevent risks and improve working conditions. A member of the with 2014. The CNAM-measured lost-time accident frequency Occupational Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee rate for 2014 was 0.3% for Paris (down signiﬁcantly compared is now the point person on psychosocial risks and meets with the with 2013), with a severity rate of 0.14%. The rate for 2015 will in-house mediation team at least once a quarter. Another member not be published by the CNAM until later in 2016. is in charge of a prevention plan for outside service providers. CNP Assurances is committed to ensuring the health and safety In addition to supplementary health insurance, CNP Assurances of its employees. Numerous health improvement programmes employees are covered by death/disability insurance with have been established by Group entities: CNP Assurances an optional long-term care formula. Collective agreements has an Occupational Health department on each of its main with MFPrévoyance’s Occupational Health, Safety and sites, and offers employees additional preventative care from Working Conditions Committee also include supplementary specialist doctors. A social worker is also available during ofﬁce health and death/disability insurance. CNP Partners and hours. The Company’s training programme includes road safety La Banque Postale Prévoyance also have an Occupational training modules for travelling insurance advisors. Prevention Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee, which met eight times in 2015. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 29 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER I Priority No. 3: roll out a robust policy on gender equality in the workplace Timeline First commitment Intergenerational action Agreement on gender to diversity plan created equality extended 1995 2009 2013 2014 2015 Diversity Label awarded Seventh agreement on the integration of people with disabilities A STRONG GROUP-WIDE POLICY W in accordance with the agreement, employee representatives who devote more than half of their working time to these CNP Assurances is dedicated to integrating young people and duties receive a salary increase each year at least equal to the people with disabilities into the workplace, supporting people average of the individual pay rises of all the employees in their with disabilities and promoting professional equality. It also professional category. constantly strives to prevent all forms of discrimination. A continuous improvement initiative: every year an internal CNP Assurances received the Seal of Diversity in 2009 for its Diversity Steering Committee, put in place in 2010 at clear diversity and anti-discrimination policy, and has managed CNP Assurances, reviews the actions undertaken in each to keep the distinction since then. The status study conducted in area of the business to ensure that consistent policies are 2015, prior to the audit for the renewal of the Seal of Diversity, applied throughout the organisation. Career management revealed an overall performance rate, in respect of the practices and performance review processes uphold the principle of of CNP Assurances compared with the requirements set under non-discrimination. Conferences in Arcueil and Angers helped the label speciﬁcations, that was close to exemplary (64%). managers understand and become aware of stereotypes and how to combat them. Over 300 managers received training, This policy is based in particular on three company agreements particularly on equal opportunity in hiring. Various mechanisms on gender equality, disabilities and union resources, as well as have been put in place to ensure that application of the diversity an action plan on the intergenerational contract initiative. policy is regularly monitored and an annual diversity report is The results of this policy are illustrated not only by the Seal of presented to employee representatives. Diversity but also by several indicators: A commitment applied across the Group: the commitment to W in 2015, CNP Assurances ranked eighth in the annual list ﬁghting discrimination is shared across the Group, and features of French companies with the highest proportion of women in the Caixa Seguradora group’s code of ethics and conduct, executives (number one in the insurance sector) published by and in CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros’ code of ethics. the Ministry of Social Affairs, Health and Women’s Rights, CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings’ code of service addresses which highlights the most advanced companies in terms of the issues of discrimination, privacy, freedom of religion, and gender equality; respect for each employee. A collective agreement on this subject was also signed by MFPrévoyance in 2011. A working group W on disability, employees with disabilities represented 6.4% to promote diversity at UniCredit Vita once again implemented of CNP Assurances’ workforce at 31 December 2015, an numerous initiatives, including dedicated training, in 2015. increase of more than 1 percentage point compared with 2014. In late 2014, it signed its seventh internal agreement on this subject with three union organisations for 2015-2018 – a testimony to its enduring commitment; 30 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER PROMOTING GENDER EQUALITY IN THE WORKPLACE 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Proportion of female management-grade staff 50% 50% 0% 99% Proportion of female senior executives 33% 33% 0% 99% Average male/female income ratio by category 105% 109% -4% 99% CNP Assurances constantly strives to reduce any observed gender At 31 December 2015, 39% of Board members were women gaps in remuneration and promotion. The second agreement (seven directors). The proportion of women on the Board of on gender equality, signed by all trade unions in 2011, sets Directors and the Executive Committee has increased steadily in measurable goals in terms of gender parity, promotions, training recent years, exceeding 38% at the end of 2014. To advance and work-life balance. Particular attention is paid to women the cause of women in the workplace, CNP Assurances belongs returning to work from maternity leave. A new agreement to Financi’Elles, a network for female management-grade extending it until the end of 2016 was signed in 2015. employees in banking, ﬁnance and insurance, and Alter Égales, the network for female management-grade employees within the Caisse des Dépôts Group. Continuing the actions taken in the previous year, the Company pursued its active membership of both networks in 2015. THE EMPLOYMENT AND INTEGRATION OF EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES Number of employees with disabilities 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Number of employees with disabilities 140 130 +8% 99% CNP Assurances this year celebrated the 20th anniversary of its FIGHTING AGE DISCRIMINATION disability programme. During these years, it has implemented a proactive policy to help people with disabilities enter the workforce. A seventh agreement was signed in 2014, committing Hiring young people the Company to helping people with disabilities enter and CNP Assurances makes every effort to help young people to stay in the workforce over a period of four years from 2015 ﬁnd employment. In 2015, permanent employees aged under to 2018. Including the 124 disabled employees on permanent 25 accounted for 3.4% of the workforce. An action plan to contracts (up 10% compared with 2014) and the employees implement the French government’s intergenerational contract of the 170 sheltered workshops used by the Company, the initiative was drawn up in 2013, describing CNP Assurances’ proportion of disabled employees was 6.4% of the workforce at commitment to helping young people ﬁnd lasting employment 31 December 2015. under a permanent contract. In 2015, 12 people aged under 25 were hired on permanent contracts. At 31 December 2015, Disabled access audits have been conducted at all CNP Assurances had more than 100 young employees on workCNP Assurances’ facilities, in liaison with the Occupational study contacts. CNP Assurances also hosted 86 interns in 2015. Health, Safety and Working Conditions Committee. An In addition, MFPrévoyance signed an intergenerational contract accessibility audit carried out in 2011 at the two main Paris sites with employee representatives in 2013. found that they were respectively 77% and 73% accessible to the disabled. In 2014, before CNP Assurances employees moved into a new building in Paris, an accessibility audit was carried Employing seniors out and the recommendations from the audit were implemented. CNP Assurances’ intergenerational plan sets measurable goals for the hiring and retention of seniors. With 30 seniors on ﬁxedThe Caixa Seguradora group frequently uses organisations that term contracts at the end of 2015, the Company is upholding promote employment of people with disabilities to circulate job its commitments. Nineteen seniors with expertise were hired in offers. It develops awareness initiatives to help teams welcome 2015. Employees aged over 55 accounted for more than 21.2% these employees. At CNP UniCredit Vita, employees with of the workforce at 31 December 2015, an increase of nearly disabilities represented 6.13% of the workforce in 2015. 4% compared with end-2014. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 31 BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER PROMOTING DIVERSITY THROUGH COMMUNICATION Awareness initiatives and training are conducted to ﬁght stereotypes, prejudice, discriminatory language and attitudes, The internal diversity communication plan is reviewed annually. and to convince employees of the advantages of having a Employees may also report any complaints or problems involving diversity policy. To maintain this momentum, which is now well suspected or actual discrimination. The procedure is available entrenched, the “40 minutes to understand discrimination” on the Intranet. Various articles on the implementation of the self-training module, originally released in 2011 as part of the diversity policy, as well as external links, are also available on incentive campaign, has been updated. the CNP Intranet site. I Compliance with and promotion of the fundamental ILO conventions In keeping with their commitment to the Global Compact, representatives enjoy the same training and promotion CNP Assurances, CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, the opportunities as other staff members. Caixa Seguradora group and CNP UniCredit Vita ensure that Furthermore, compliance with ILO standards is reﬂected in laws and regulations are complied with in each country where dealings with suppliers and their own subcontractors (see “Other they operate. initiatives” on page 20), the inclusion of CSR criteria in the All of the subsidiaries share the four overriding principles of investment strategy (81% of ﬁnancial assets of the French entities, respect for human rights, freedom of association, the right to 100% of the Brazilian entity, 47% in Italy) and the management collective bargaining, long-term support for employees and the of property assets. promotion of equal opportunity. Each one submits an annual report on their HR performance to CNP Assurances, with a special focus on these four criteria. Measures guaranteeing THE ABOLITION OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY respect for civil and political rights at CNP Assurances include LABOUR AND EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD the Company’s internal code of conduct, the appointment of LABOUR a liaison ofﬁcer for dealings with the French data protection agency (CNIL) and agreements on union rights. Neither CNP Assurances nor its subsidiaries are directly concerned by forced or child labour. However, the Group pays Employees are covered by insurance industry collective particularly close attention to this issue in its purchasing policy bargaining agreements (except in Ireland and for senior (see “Priority No. 2: be a responsible purchaser” on page 19). managers in Argentina). CNP Assurances ensures that employee I Building employee awareness of sustainable development issues through training Sustainable development challenges are the subject of W in recent years, CNP Assurances has organised competitions, awareness/training initiatives to embed them in the corporate surveys and conferences, shared guidelines, and raised culture and everyday practices. awareness on eco-driving. In 2014, a conference was held in Paris for all employees on socially responsible investment; AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS W in 2015 a collection of used coffee capsules was organised during Sustainable Development Week on CNP Assurances sites (Paris, Arcueil, Angers). The sale of material obtained Several Group entities have a section on their Intranet dedicated from waste raised money that was matched by the Company to sustainable development. For several years, regular events and and donated to Alliance française in Vanuatu for reconstruction activities have been organised in each entity to raise employee efforts in the archipelago, and Iniciativa Verde for reforestation awareness about sustainable development challenges: efforts in Brazil’s Atlantic forest; 32 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES BE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER W Sustainable Development Week was also an opportunity year. In Argentina, 2015 was marked by the launch of the to launch a partnership with “Our Neighbourhoods Have “Multiplicar” programme aimed at reinforcing the responsible Talent” (Nos quartiers ont des talents – NQT). This association behaviour of employees through regular activities on the themes connects young graduates from priority or disadvantaged of recycling and solidarity, including training on sorting; neighbourhoods with volunteer sponsors in the Company. Their aim is to help and guide them in their search for their ﬁrst job; W in addition, in conjunction with the installation of deﬁbrillators in CNP Partners’ ofﬁces, 58 Company employees participated W COP21 was widely discussed within CNP Assurances, with in races to promote their use. Caixa Seguradora circulated its a wide variety of information distributed via the Intranet and new code of ethics and conduct to all of its employees. the issuance of a press release highlighting the Company’s commitments in respect of the environmental and energy transition. Nine hundred employees took part in an interactive TRAINING serious game on these issues and on the strategy implemented by CNP Assurances to meet this challenge; The Caixa Seguradora group offers e-learning courses on socio-environmental responsibility for all staff, with 238 people W various awareness campaigns focused on eco-gestures within trained in 2015. the Group’s entities: MFPrévoyance educated employees about sorting, and La Banque Postale Prévoyance raised awareness CNP UniCredit Vita provided diversity training to all staff in about three eco-responsible habits (turning off lights and 2015. It also tested a smart-working approach during the months computers, limiting print-outs). The Caixa Seguradora group of the World Expo in Milan, focusing on work-life balance, continues its intense employee awareness campaign each teleworking and remote control. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 33 Fostering a sustainable society and environment Every year, when renewing their membership of the UN Global the Group places on its impact on the world around it. COP21 Compact, CNP Assurances and its various signatory subsidiaries was an opportunity to take this approach further. conﬁrm their determination to manage their impact on civil society and the environment. W Priority No. 1: optimise the environmental footprint of the Group’s internal workings. The implementation of environmental policies within the Group, the desire to disclose its environmental impact on a very W Priority No. 2: reduce the carbon and environmental impact of products. comprehensive basis, the annual monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions and the activity of the CNP Assurances Foundation and W Priority No. 3: control the local impact. the Caixa Seguradora Institute are evidence of the importance I Priority No. 1: optimise the environmental footprint of the Group’s internal workings Everyone in the Group has a role to play in reducing its The Building Management department monitors regulatory environmental impact, primarily by effectively managing the developments. Each year an external audit ﬁrm prepares an three main direct sources of greenhouse gas emissions: paper assessment of regulatory compliance and a monitoring tool for use, business travel and ofﬁce building management. Employees equipment at risk. have adopted a number of waste-sorting practices. Similarly, To mark the launch of its new “Multiplicar” CSR policy, train travel is being used more instead of air travel, and video CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros has established a conferencing has become another regular habit. Sustainability Committee comprising employees who take part in the development of proposals for action. STRUCTURES FOR ADDRESSING ENVIRONMENTAL CNP UniCredit Vita entrusts its approach to the CSR department ISSUES in charge of environmental issues. CSR projects were previously monitored by the Green Group, which is made up of volunteer Environmental issues are handled locally by each entity. The employees. Since 2013, key CSR indicators have been included resources mobilised for this purpose vary with the entity’s size. in the Company’s management reports. Group subsidiaries report to the parent company on their The Caixa Seguradora group set up a Sustainable Development environmental performance on an annual basis. Committee in 2007 to address environmental issues. This CNP Assurances has a Sustainable Development department, Committee, comprising 11 representatives from various sectors which reports directly to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer. Environmental within the Company, is chaired by the chairperson of the issues are addressed and monitored by the corporate Purchasing, Group’s Executive Committee. The initiatives in the environmental Working Environment and Property Investment departments. programme help to instil a culture of sustainable development within the Company. 34 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOSTERING A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AUDIT CNP Assurances’ greenhouse gas emissions CNP Assurances’ emissions of CO2 equivalent have been monitored for ﬁve years. Since 2012, they have been measured in accordance with Article 75 of France’s Grenelle law of 12 July 2010, and were as follows: 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 2,673 t.CO2eq. 2,643 t.CO2eq. +1% Indirect greenhouse gas emissions related to energy consumption (Scope 2) 2,246 t.CO2eq. 2,074 t.CO2eq. +8% Other indirect emissions (excluding ﬁnancial assets, see page 40) 16,485 t.CO2eq. 15,267 t.CO2eq. +8% Scope 1 and 2 emissions are not material, which means that Detailed information by source as reported to the French their volatility is inevitable, regardless of optimisation efforts: the authorities is available in French at www.cnp.fr. In addition, slight increase in direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) is attributable CNP Assurances has reported its greenhouse gas emissions to to the higher level of maintenance work and tests on generators the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2005. carried out in 2015. Heating over a full year of the new Parisian building purchased in 2014 explains the change in indirect Caixa Seguradora group’s greenhouse gas GHG emissions attributable to energy (Scope 2). emissions The gap in respect of indirect emissions (Scope 3, excluding The Caixa Seguradora group’s carbon footprint, measured in ﬁnancial assets) is attributable chieﬂy to a change in methodology terms of emissions related to business travel and buildings (based in determining the services. on the GHG protocol), totalled 2.63 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per employee. With its emissions offset by reforestation in the Atlantic Forest carried out with Iniciativa Verde, Caixa Seguradora has earned CarbonFree certiﬁcation for several years in a row. ANALYSIS OF THE MAIN COMPONENTS OF THE INCOME STATEMENT As CNP Assurances is a service company, its environmental footprint is related to employee behaviour and IT server activity. Energy, business travel and paper are the most signiﬁcant items. 2015 emissions in t.CO2eq. Emission sources for CNP Assurances Energy 3,414 Business travel 2,955 Paper 940 Business travel and audio conferencing hours, as well as for air and train travel, in its quarterly report presented to the Management Committee. Car travel is a big part of the CNP Assurances Group’s carbon footprint. As the potential economic and environmental gain is In 2015, 11,742 hours of video conferencing were recorded signiﬁcant, training and awareness campaigns on road risks across the Group, an increase of 31%, of which 70% at and eco-driving were established for all employees in 2013. CNP Assurances. In 2014, new employees in the sales network attended speciﬁc personalised modules. Commuting As part of its Business Travel Plan, CNP Assurances updated the Expanding video conferencing commuting survey in 2013. Commuting by car was down (by The use of video and audio conferencing is now widespread between 9% and 30% depending on the site), while journeys within the Group. It is promoted to limit business travel. The by motorcycle or scooter and carpooling were up (by 8% for Caixa Seguradora group encourages its employees to reduce employees working at Paris Montparnasse). In all, greenhouse travel and to use any alternatives available to them. Since 2013, gas emissions related to commuting have been reduced by 13% CNP UniCredit Vita has included tracking indicators for video in three years. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 35 FOSTERING A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT Business travel 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Million km travelled by plane 15.6 13.9 +12% 98% Million km travelled by train 3.7 3.9 -5% 99% Million km travelled by car 10.2 * 0.9 -11% 93% like-for-like * Including CNP Assurances from 2015 The increase in air travel is attributable chieﬂy to May 2013. Accordingly, hybrid vehicles accounted for 40% of Caixa Seguradora. Air travel was either steady or down at the taxi journeys in 2015, up from 36% in 2014. other Group entities. In Brazil, air travel is justiﬁed by business A large number of subsidiaries cut back on business travel expansion and the size of the country. or opted for cleaner modes of transport in 2015. As such, CNP Assurances has prepared a written travel policy, providing CNP UniCredit Vita continued its work to raise employee a framework for employee practices to reduce their impact on the awareness (train versus plane and public transport), offering staff environment, while continuing to ensure the comfort and safety annual subscriptions at reduced rates after negotiation with the of travellers. Train travel relates mainly to CNP Assurances. public transport company of Milan. Employees travelled 3.5 million kilometres by train, of which more than half between its main sites in Angers and Paris. Consumption of ofﬁce supplies Kilometres travelled by car increased sharply during the year The CNP Assurances Group’s operations are entirely in the due to the consolidation of CNP Assurances (92% of the total). In ﬁeld of insurance. As with other ﬁnancial services, paper is the previous years, car travel at CNP Assurances was expressed in principal raw material consumed. For several years now, many terms of fuel consumption. initiatives have been deployed by Group entities to reduce paper use. In 2013, for instance, CNP UniCredit Vita’s paper use was CNP Assurances encourages the use of public transport. Taxis included as a key indicator in the monthly report presented to the can be used under certain conditions, and in this case, hybrid Management Committee. Since 2014, CNP Partners has posted vehicles have been given priority by the booking ofﬁce since a guide to good practice on its Intranet to reduce paper use by employees. A reduction in Group-wide paper use for internal operations 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Paper use for internal purposes 32.6 million sheets 35.5 million sheets -8% 98% Proportion of recycled paper used for internal purposes 19.4% 17.2% +13% 97% Thanks to the concerted efforts of employees, CNP Assurances and 14% respectively. CNP UniCredit Vita and CNP Europe Life is reducing its paper use year after year, with savings of 11% in use only recycled paper for internal purposes. 2012, 5% in 2013 and almost 6% in 2015. Caixa Seguradora and CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros have signiﬁcantly Green ofﬁce supply purchasing reduced their paper purchases for internal purposes, by 30% In line with last year’s ﬁgure, 35% of ofﬁce supplies ordered by CNP Assurances are labelled “green”. 36 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOSTERING A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT Ofﬁce building environmental management Controlling energy use Energy use by the CNP Assurances Group corresponds to heating and cooling systems in its ofﬁce buildings, ofﬁce equipment used by employees and IT servers. Electricity is the main type of energy used. 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Electricity consumption 22.1 million kWh 21.6 million kWh +2% 99% Gas consumption 2.2 million kWh 2.3 million kWh +4% 98% Fuel oil consumption 87,945 litres 56,010 litres +57% 63% CNP Assurances has adopted energy-saving measures designed W the installation of LED lighting at SIC Beaucouzé resulted in an to help buildings operate more efﬁciently. For example, improving energy gain. how heating (French sites except Arcueil), air conditioning and Furthermore, in accordance with Article L.233-1 of the French ventilation systems are controlled requires the expert management Energy Code, CNP Assurances conducted an energy audit of programmable time settings. The Group has also established on operating buildings before 5 December 2015. This audit room temperature guidelines and the regulation of fan coil units, was carried out at the headquarters and on the site in Angers, whose efﬁciency has been improved by the closure of the doors. thereby covering 65% of energy bills paid by the Company. The Signiﬁcant work has been carried out to reduce energy use. For operation of buildings was studied, and measurements were example: taken of the consumption of the various buildings. W as part of a comprehensive plan to reduce energy costs A total of 4.44 million kWh of heating supplied by the CPCU at the Saint Serge building in Angers, and on the basis of district heating network in Paris was used to heat CNP Assurances’ the energy performance assessment, a four-year programme Paris ofﬁces in 2015. Fuel oil consumption, which is occasional (2014-2018) has begun with renovation work on the and not material, relates exclusively to the power generators at refrigeration system. The work will allow compliance with the main sites in France. regulations, via the removal of R-22 and the replacement of CNP Assurances’ subsidiaries have also gradually adopted open air-cooling towers, which consume large amounts of measures to reduce electricity use, notably for lighting, heating water, with closed towers, which, by virtue of their design, and IT servers. The Caixa Seguradora group moved its do not consume water. A new stage of the project has headquarters to a more energy-efﬁcient building equipped with begun, with the aim of fully renovating the ventilation and presence detectors, LED lighting, glass façades (less artiﬁcial air conditioning system. For this, a management system and light) and a more efﬁcient air conditioning system. control equipment have been established; Awareness campaigns have also been conducted among W following the purchase of a new ofﬁce building in Paris in 2014, employees in the Group’s entities (see “Building employee multi-annual renovations of the control system continued, with awareness of sustainable development issues through training” the installation on three levels of new terminal units to control on page 32). fan convectors; The buildings used by Group entities are not currently equipped with systems for generating renewable energy. Water use 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Water consumption in cubic metres 63,205 71,960 -12% 98% 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 37 FOSTERING A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT An analysis of local restrictions on the Group’s water use, based The removal of open cooling towers at CNP Assurances and on the Global Water Tool 2015, shows that 5% of its water use the installation of more energy-efﬁcient equipment at the new is in extremely water-scarce areas (Cyprus), 8% in water-scarce headquarters of the Caixa Seguradora group (modern air areas, 2% in water-stressed areas, 46% in water-sufﬁcient areas conditioning and water pressure limiting system) explain the drop and 39% in water-abundant areas (see the area deﬁnitions at in water consumption recorded in 2015. http://www.wbcsd.org). Waste management 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage Proportion of employees with access to waste sorting 95% 89% +7% 98% Tonnes of waste paper and cardboard recycled 237 179 +32% 91% Waste-sorting systems allow Group entities to recycle printer out by an association employing people with disabilities. It has cartridges and paper used in ofﬁces for internal purposes. The also led a campaign involving the replacement of individual bins ﬁnancial beneﬁts of recycling are donated to NGOs in France. in favour of collective bins. To go further, all obsolete computer Each Group entity has conducted campaigns to teach employees equipment is given to a specialised association. about recycling. Caixa Seguradora’s move into a new building CNP UniCredit Vita has set up a plastic bottle compaction system, in late 2014 provided an opportunity for a diagnostic review including caps, in one of its communal areas. of waste management within the organisation and a survey of employee behaviour. Pollution The CNP Assurances recycling system was extended in 2011, Given the nature of its business, CNP Assurances causes no water with the addition of a dedicated process for ofﬁce furniture. or soil pollution, and emits very few greenhouse gases other Used batteries and light bulbs are collected at the main facilities, than CO2. Nonetheless, as part of its woodland management, representing over half a tonne in 2014. it employs techniques that prevent soil erosion and ensure water Computer equipment is also a signiﬁcant source of waste. ﬁltration and puriﬁcation. CNP Assurances sells or gives away over half of its obsolete The Group’s entities do not cause noise or other forms of pollution. equipment, and the rest is dismantled for recycling by a Several entities have installed lighting in their ofﬁces that switches specialised ﬁrm. off automatically. CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros has made waste None of the Group’s entities have been convicted of any management one of the major planks of its new CSR policy. To environmental violations or have been the subject of any raise employee awareness, training on sorting has been carried nonmonetary environmental sanctions. I Priority No. 2: reduce the carbon and environmental impact of products The ﬁght against climate change is only effective if it is made Caixa Seguradora incorporated the management of central to business. A signatory to the Kyoto Statement of the environmental risk resulting from its activities and operations Geneva Association several years ago, CNP Assurances worked into its sustainable development policy in 2015, which covers hard in 2015 to gain the fullest picture possible of the carbon identiﬁcation, assessment of negative impacts, mitigation and impact of its products, on the insurance side and on the investment control. side alike. It also gave noteworthy support to the “Declaration of the actors of the Paris ﬁnancial centre on climate change”. 38 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOSTERING A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT IMPACT OF AN INSURANCE PRODUCT The cradle-to-grave carbon emissions associated with a death and disability insurance product were revised in 2015, in line with the carbon analysis method®. For example, a Trésor Prévoyance Garantie Autonomie policy generates 22 kilograms of CO2 over its lifetime, as follows. CLAIMS MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT Time spent managing dependency Time spent by marketing/invoicing teams payments, documents and mail sent to 13% 1% on product development. and from beneﬁciaries until death. POLICY ADMINISTRATION 6% 4% MARKETING Time spent managing the policy Printing of documents over its entire term, documents and transporting ofﬁce supplies and mail sent annually to to sales teams. and from beneﬁciaries. 1% 2% ACCEPTANCE TRAINING Time spent by teams selecting 74% Training for sales teams risks for analysis and accepting and business travel. customer requests. DISTRIBUTION Time spent by sales teams on policy subscriptions and sending documents and mail to customers. We used the results of this analysis to set priorities for action, These ﬁndings were conﬁrmed in 2015 by measuring the leading to our current work on reducing the environmental environmental impact of the online subscription in place in footprint of our internal operations, promoting paperless solutions creditor insurance for over a year. The results are very positive, and online tracking. particularly in terms of greenhouse gas emission reductions. Paper consumption for internal purposes 2015 2014 Year-on-year change Level of coverage (1) Paper consumption for customers 116 million sheets 86 million sheets +34% 97% Proportion of paper certiﬁed as environmentally sustainable (2) 89% 90% -1% 97% (1) Paper use for contractual documents, claims management and customer communication (2) All paper, excluding chemical carbon paper limited to contractual documents The increase in paper consumption for customer purposes is in 2009 and 26% in 2010. Customer correspondence has attributable chieﬂy to the increase in the amount of customer been printed in part on recycled paper for the last two years. correspondence required by changes to regulations. A Moreover, CNP Assurances’ corporate brochures accounted for total of 103.4 million sheets of paper were purchased for 369,719 sheets, down 20% in 2015. CNP Assurances’ corporate brochures and contractual For several years, some Group entities, including documents. In 2009, the switch to double-sided printing for Caixa Seguradora, CNP Partners and MFPrévoyance, have informative documents sent to CNP Assurances customers helped outsourced the printing of their contractual documents and/or reduce the volume, with the number of printed sheets down 42% customer correspondence. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 39 FOSTERING A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT Eighty-nine percent of paper used by the Group (including for of carbon dioxide was added to the sequestered total. The internal purposes) has a sustainable management label such as Company responsible for managing CNP Assurances’ forestry FSC, PEFC or EU Ecolabel. assets has been considering how these woodlands can be adapted to cope with projected climate change over the coming Paperless operations – a rapidly expanding decades. approach The digital conversion of certain documents and procedures A ﬁrst measurement of the carbon footprint has increased at CNP Assurances: the Amétis network started and strong commitments to ﬁght against going paperless for marketing correspondence in 2011. climate change Virtually all applications for La Banque Postale products are now ESTIMATE OF THE CARBON FOOTPRINT OF THE PORTFOLIO paperless. This has helped eliminate the use of carbon paper OF DIRECTLY HELD LISTED EQUITIES (a saving of 1 million sheets). Semi-annual customer statements t.CO2eq./€ thousands invested are now paperless, reducing the number of items sent by the 0.5 Caisse d’Epargne and La Banque Postale networks by 3 million 0.47 2020 and 1.9 million respectively. 0.44 objective 0.4 CNP UniCredit Vita launched two projects to make its 0.38 contractual and aftermarket documents paperless in 2015. CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros has sharply reduced 0.3 the printing of contractual documents, notably by establishing a customer extranet. 0.2 THE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT OF FINANCIAL 0.1 ASSETS 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 As a ﬁnancial intermediary, CNP Assurances’ main challenge in respect of controlling CO2 emissions is its assets. After nearly ten years of monitoring the carbon well formed by its forests, CNP Assurances elected to measure the greenhouse The environment as an investment criterion gas emissions from its equity securities in 2015. These emissions, despite being indirect, are far more signiﬁcant than the carbon CNP Assurances applies environmental screens to all of its footprint emissions. Their measurement highlights the role of equity and corporate bond portfolios, thereby prioritising, investors in the ﬁght against climate change. It is a symbol more in the same way as CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, than a scientiﬁc measure. Nevertheless, CNP Assurances has set companies with a good environmental performance and taking itself the goal of reducing the level reached on 31 December 2014 into account the carbon risks and opportunities (see “Priority by 20% by 2020. No.1: be a responsible investor” on page 15). It has also developed CNP Développement Durable, an SRI fund focusing As there is still scope to improve the methodology, on environmentally responsible investments, which is marketed CNP Assurances supports the Carbone 4 methodological through the Amétis network. developments, notably with a view to better identifying companies that emit large amounts of greenhouse gases while at Since mid-2009, Green Rating energy efﬁciency assessments the same time being highly committed to CSR, via the “avoided have been carried out on all newly acquired properties in order emissions” approach. Furthermore, this measure and the to estimate the cost of upgrading the properties to meet the associated reduction commitment strengthen the Group’s role as current standards. The Caixa Seguradora group has a policy of a responsible shareholder and reinforce dialogue with issuers. not investing in property projects that pose a potential danger to Investor leverage is becoming credible with the proliferation of the environment. market commitments to which CNP Assurances subscribed in As the largest private owner of woodland in France, 2015: Gold sponsor of the “climate ﬁnance days”, signatory CNP Assurances helps to capture a signiﬁcant quantity of CO2. to the Montreal Carbon Pledge, actor in the “Declaration of the As a reminder (see “Forests: an environmental opportunity”), the actors of the Paris ﬁnancial centre on climate change”, pioneer, growth of CNP Assurances’ trees allowed the sequestering of alongside the Caisse des Dépôts Group as a whole, in the 539,020 tonnes of carbon dioxide in 2015. After deducting commitment to provide multi-year data on the reduction in its timber sold or cut down during the year, a net 290,584 tonnes GHG emissions. 40 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOSTERING A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT I Priority No. 3: control the local impact LOCAL IMPACT Initiatives to support local communities The Group’s entities also contribute to resolving current social Local employment issues. For example: CNP Assurances has been providing employment in its host regions W Filassistance’s assistance and prevention services meet the for close to a century: 91% of CNP Assurances employees work needs of people made vulnerable by age, disability or illness at either the Paris, Arcueil or Angers facilities. Expatriate workers (see “Promoting good health” on page 11); represent 0.5% of headcount at foreign subsidiaries. These companies also participate in their local job markets, including W the Caixa Seguradora group actively helps local communities, with programmes such as Jovem de Expressao, which is for senior management positions: at 31 December 2015, 73% of supporting human development during the current period of Executive or Management Committee members had been hired demographic and epidemiological transition in Brazil (see locally. www.jovemdeexpressao.com.br). Through this campaign, the CNP Assurances is a founding member of the Entrepreneurs de la Group seeks to reduce violence by fostering access to jobs, Cité foundation. In addition, the new focus of CNP Assurances’ and to cut exposure to sexually transmitted diseases among sponsorship – supporting the inclusion of young people in young people in the surrounding region, in partnership with education and civic service – and the partnership established with local cultural centres. This programme was acknowledged Our Neighbourhoods Have Talent (NQT) offer practical solutions in 2010 for its innovative character, and received an award in ﬁnding jobs. Similarly, the Caixa Seguradora group has for for its actions in the ﬁght against AIDS/HIV in 2015. These several years been organising expression and entrepreneurship initiatives were shared internationally in 2015 at the World workshops for young people from disadvantaged areas (1,700 Congress against Crime in Doha and a conference on sex in 2014 and 2015). Its events and discussion groups attracted education in the United States; nearly 14,000 participants in 2014. In 2015, the Company established a partnership with various Brazilian institutions to W in 2014, CNP Assurances invested in DomusVi, a major provider of residential and home care services for the elderly. support small and microenterprises. Lastly, and less directly, several insurance products include Lobbying assistance in ﬁnding work. Examples include, in France, an Group companies participate in their local insurance industry’s unemployment insurance product with a reduced premium professional bodies and the international subsidiaries also attend or advisory services to help the policyholder ﬁnd a new job events organised by the local French consulate, but they do and, in Brazil, the job search support service offered by not conduct any lobbying per se. The Group helps to address Caixa Seguradora. the challenges facing society by contributing to research and discussion, notably on the topics of retirement and long-term care Impact as an insurer and long-term investor in France. By making its products widely accessible, in terms of both CNP Assurances never acts alone. It systematically acts through affordability and medical screening, the Group is helping to industry organisations, in particular the FFSA and European combat ﬁnancial exclusion. These topics, which are an essential bodies in the insurance sector. Experts sit on its speciﬁc part of the Group’s CSR approach, are discussed further in committees. Since January 2015, the Director of Sustainability “Priority No.1: promote access to insurance” on page 9. at CNP Assurances has chaired the Sustainable Development With over €300 billion in investments, CNP Assurances plays a Committee of the AFA (association combining the FFSA and the major role in ﬁnancing the economies of it host countries. Association of Mutual Insurance Companies). All sectors of the economy receive support to foster long-term CNP Assurances is involved in the Paris Europlace SRI development. CNP Assurances promotes Corporate Social Commission, and is also a member of ORSE, a French CSR Responsibility among the companies in the portfolio, through think-tank, and its Finance Club, which brings together various its policy of being a responsible investor and shareholder stakeholders (NGOs, unions and trade associations). (see “For a sustainable economy” on page 15). Similarly, By way of illustration, CNP Assurances took an active part in Caixa Seguradora’s ﬁnancial investments are carried out entirely the development of the “Declaration of the actors of the Paris in Brazil. ﬁnancial centre on climate change” signed by seven associations, including ORSE, Paris Europlace and the AFA, in 2015. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 41 FOSTERING A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT None of the Group’s entities makes donations to political parties. 20 CNP Assurances employees voluntarily and willingly work In countries where such donations are not illegal, subsidiaries, with the association to help these young people ﬁnd employment. such as CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, speciﬁcally CNP Assurances is also a founding member of the Entrepreneurs prohibit them in their code of ethics. de la Cité foundation, and co-insures the entrepreneurs helped by the foundation. The Group is also involved in the Cités Partenaires II Business Angels investment fund dedicated to CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY AND OUTREACH helping entrepreneurs from disadvantaged areas. PARTNERSHIPS The Caixa Seguradora group is heavily involved in the Jovem de Expressao programme (see “Local impact”), and Corporate philanthropy operations are carried out in partnership signed a cooperation agreement with UNESCO in 2011 to with non-proﬁt organisations following calls for projects. In develop community-based communication and promote youth France, some projects are partly driven by employees, or by health initiatives as part of this outreach programme. higher education institutions. Employees in Brazil and Italy take part in organising corporate philanthropy initiatives. Furthermore, the Caixa Seguradora Institute, which manages the philanthropic CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation work of the Brazilian group, has cooperation agreements with CNP Assurances made a signiﬁcant commitment in 2015 in UNODC and UNESCO as well as service agreements with the favour of public health through its corporate foundation. It has NGO Iniciativa Verde. a multi-year €4 million programme devoted exclusively to the projects it supports in two areas: The subsidiaries are involved in many philanthropy programmes, essentially social ones: CNP Partners sponsors a solidarity W a foundation aimed at helping to reduce social inequalities in association, CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros undertook healthcare: to assist a disadvantaged community through its “Multiplicar” By promoting prevention and better health and acting on its programme in 2015, and CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings social determinants, the Foundation aims to help promote supports local actions in the ﬁelds of ﬁre and accident prevention. better living and health among young people at risk of social A high level of cultural and artistic patronage completes the many vulnerability. In this context, the Foundation has adopted a actions taken by Caixa Seguradora. dynamic approach to the joint development of national projects with partner organisations such as the Civic Service Agency Speciﬁc initiatives (Agence du Service Civique) and the Alliance for Education (Alliance pour l’Éducation). W Training/research: CNP Assurances maintains close relations with ENASS, France’s W a foundation committed to the treatment of cardiac arrest: leading business school specialised in the insurance sector. Since 2009, the CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation has It also ﬁnances training centres and apprenticeship centres initiated and provided support for projects emanating from (CFAs) such as IFPASS and ADAPT, and helps schools through French local authorities wishing to instal deﬁbrillators in public the apprenticeship tax. As part of its philanthropic activities, places and to provide ﬁrst aid training to larger numbers CNP Assurances ﬁnances several research chairs, including (ﬁnancing the implementation of more than 3,000 deﬁbrillators the Risk Foundation’s “Demographic Transitions, Economic and raising people’s awareness of the importance of ﬁrst aid in Transitions” chair. It is also supporting Institut Europlace de more than 2,200 cities and towns). Finance in the creation of a research initiative devoted to long-term asset allocation. In 2015, CNP Assurances also W a foundation close to CNP Assurances employees: supported a 3D cardiac imaging technology research project The CNP Assurances Corporate Foundation also calls for that will ultimately help develop faster and more effective projects in which CNP Assurances employees are personally diagnostic tools in oncology, cardiology and neurology. involved (such as projects in the areas of social inequalities in La Banque Postale Prévoyance has undertaken to start supporting respect of healthcare or disability). in 2016 a research chair entitled “Dependence of the Elderly” created by the Médéric Alzheimer Foundation in partnership with the Paris School of Economics. HUMAN RIGHTS W Integration: The guiding principles of the Global Compact The CNP Assurances Group has a long history of introducing young people to the world of work. At the end of 2015, In line with the 2003 pledge to uphold the UN Global Compact, CNP Assurances had 101 employees on combined work-study or CNP Assurances ensures that each local organisation complies apprenticeship contracts, as well as 194 interns and 195 young with human rights laws and regulations. Following the lead of people on insertion contracts. CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros and Caixa Seguradora, CNP UniCredit Vita also pledged to uphold the Compact in Since 2015, CNP Assurances has also supported Our 2010. The Caixa Seguradora group commissions annual CSR Neighbourhoods Have Talent (NQT), an association that aims audits by Ethos to verify compliance with the Global Compact to foster informal exchanges between young graduates from principles. priority neighbourhoods or disadvantaged backgrounds. Over 42 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES FOSTERING A SUSTAINABLE SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT Each year, these companies reafﬁrm their commitment to In addition, in supplier relations, the standard CSR clause in upholding the Compact’s principles and encourage their asset CNP Assurances’ purchase contracts stipulates that the supplier managers and suppliers to follow suit. must undertake to combat human rights violations, notably by upholding the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the This commitment is reﬂected in the integration of environmental, United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as social and governance criteria into ﬁnancial asset management the conventions of the International Labour Organization. strategies. Respect for human rights has been one the criteria used to select equity and bond investments, as well as to determine The Human Resources Intranet provides information for “sensitive countries” since 2014. In line with its commitment CNP Assurances employees about their rights, and includes as a responsible insurer and investor, and its status as a public sections on the collective bargaining agreement, social dialogue, company, CNP Assurances has drawn up a list of prohibited professional diversity and stress management. A union section countries covering all of its activities, extending beyond the on the Intranet allows continuous communication from the unions list of countries prohibited as part of the ﬁght against money to staff. laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing or non-cooperation in tax matters to include countries identiﬁed as tax havens based on the Dedicated procedures Tax Justice Network indices and those posing serious problems All of the subsidiaries share the four overriding principles of with regard to democracy, human rights and corruption, as respect for human rights, freedom of association, the right to determined by Freedom House and Transparency International. collective bargaining, long-term support for employees and the promotion of equal opportunity. Each subsidiary submits an A message communicated to stakeholders annual report on their CSR performance to the parent company, The signing of the Principles for Responsible Investment reinforces with a special focus on these fundamental criteria. CNP Assurances’ commitment, notably among issuers and Neither CNP Assurances nor the Group’s subsidiaries have companies of which it is a shareholder. recourse to forced or child labour. The Group pays particularly The signing of the French Union of Advertisers’ Charter on close attention to this issue in its purchasing policy (see “Priority Responsible Communication conﬁrms and promotes responsible No.2: be a responsible purchaser” on page 19) and in its communication by developing and implementing fair and ethical property management processes. practices, including respect for diversity and a commitment to CNP Assurances Group’s procedures to guarantee respect for respect customers’ private data when using it for marketing civil and political rights include internal codes and standard and commercial purposes. CNP Assurances discloses details of operating procedures, agreements on union rights, and data actions implemented each year. protection procedures. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 43 Methodology Group reporting methodology Reporting period Progress in sustainable development performance is tracked Indicators mapping movements cover the period from through the use of dedicated indicators and by identifying 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 (excluding outstanding accomplishments. The CNP Assurances Group CNP Assurances business travel, which is presented over a trailing discloses its CSR indicators in accordance with the provisions 12-month period from 1 November 2014 to 30 October 2015); set out in Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French indicators of stocks are as at 31 December 2015. Commercial Code. The notes to the 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report set out these indicators in detail for each Historical data and changes in scope country. Differences compared with 2014 are the inclusion of CNP Santander Insurance and the removal of Guidelines and deﬁnition CNP Barclays Vida y Pensiones. Slight variations in scope can The indicators and reporting processes have been deﬁned for all appear when indicators have not been provided for an entity or Group entities. This process serves as a reference for the various sub-entity in 2014, but have been in 2015. persons involved at CNP Assurances and at all subsidiaries in preparing this section. It describes the issues, roles, indicators Reporting, control and consolidation method and data collection processes, as well as the main identiﬁed risks Indicators are reported by operational departments (HR, building and the system for controlling and managing these risks. management and purchasing), and are broken down by facility The process was set up using Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) where necessary. The accounting consolidation system is also guidelines. The reference indicators are presented on the GRI used for CSR reporting. CSR ofﬁcers have been appointed website: https://www.globalreporting.org. for each entity (a total of 16 CSR ofﬁcers). They prepare the ﬁrst level of consolidation within the entity concerned. Thirteen Scopes validators check the data from their entities. The CNP Assurances Sustainable Development department is responsible for overall The indicators cover all fully consolidated entities in the consolidation and carries out consistency checks on all the CNP Assurances Group, namely, unless otherwise stated, information collected from these CSR ofﬁcers. CNP Assurances (for environmental data excluding 2,860 sq.m. at regional sites), CNP IAM, Previposte, ITV, CNP International, Implementing CSR reporting in 2006 has led to a steady La Banque Postale Prévoyance, MFPrévoyance, CNP Partners improvement in the quality of non-ﬁnancial data, particularly (for environmental data excluding CIS ofﬁces in Italy environmental data. Certiﬁcation by the Statutory Auditors and France), CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, and use of the Group consolidation system for CSR reporting Caixa Seguradora group, CNP UniCredit Vita, in the past three years have also enabled quality standards to CNP Cyprus Insurance Holdings, CNP Europe Life and be tightened. A dedicated collaborative web platform was set CNP Santander Insurance and their consolidated subsidiaries. up in 2015. These developments have helped to drive progress Indicators for the Group’s consolidated subsidiaries are in the Group’s CSR programme by making it easier to manage presented on a 100% basis. Differences compared with 2014 initiatives within each business. are the inclusion of CNP Santander Insurance and the removal of Consolidated ratios for all entities are calculated by weighting CNP Barclays Vida y Pensiones. reported ratios based on each entity’s headcount. The term “CNP Assurances” covers the legal entities CNP Assurances, CNP IAM, Previposte, ITV and Limitations to the completeness CNP International. The scope for water and energy use includes and reliability of information the facilities in Paris, Angers and Arcueil, but excludes regional Estimates have been used for certain environmental data, where ofﬁces; this corresponds to 91% of CNP Assurances employees. more exact information is not available. This applies in particular The level of coverage for each indicator is presented in the tables. to water and energy consumption data for buildings, which is It represents the headcount of entities included in the calculation sometimes estimated on a pro-rata basis based on the number of the indicator divided by the total headcount of the consolidated of square metres (Arcueil, CNP Europe Life sites). Furthermore, Group, excluding the branches in Italy and Denmark. Section 4 the deﬁnitions of social indicators may differ slightly between therefore covers a total of 99.54% of the consolidated Group’s countries. However, the consolidated indicators used are employees at 31 December 2015. consistent and material. The guidelines were deployed in 2014 in foreign subsidiaries, and certain deﬁnitions, such as those for Change is the percentage difference between the 2014 and absenteeism, training and remuneration, were harmonised from 2015 data. It was noted that the aforementioned change of one subsidiary to the next. scope did not materially inﬂuence the rate of change. In the event of major adjustments to the scope explaining a particular rate of change, the rate of change is also presented at constant scope. 44 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES METHODOLOGY Veriﬁcation Names of entities One of our Statutory Auditors performed an analysis to verify To make this report easier to read, the names of certain the existence and fair presentation of information that falls entities have been simpliﬁed. For example, CNP Argentina is within the scope of Article 225 of the French Commercial used for CNP Assurances Compañia de Seguros, LBPP for Code. A fairness review was performed for the most signiﬁcant La Banque Postale Prévoyance, CNP CIH for Cyprus Insurance information, including detailed tests on the corresponding Holdings, and CNP Santander for CNP Santander Insurance. measurable indicators, and the other information was reviewed for consistency. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 45 Concordance table for labour, social and environmental data The table below reviews in detail the indicators found in Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code and speciﬁes the sections that cover these indicators in this report. All the sections mentioned in the table fall within the scope of the veriﬁcation; the level of veriﬁcation is speciﬁed in the table. Labour indicators (Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code) Level of veriﬁcation a) Workforce W Total workforce and breakdown by age, gender and geographic region Fairness W Hires and terminations Fairness W Remuneration and changes in remuneration Fairness b) Working hours W Organisation of working hours Fairness W Absenteeism Fairness c) Employee relations W Organisation of social dialogue (employee information and consultation procedures and negotiation processes) Fairness W Corporate agreements Fairness d) Health and safety W Workplace health and safety conditions Fairness W Health and safety agreements signed with trade unions and other employee representatives Consistency W Workplace accidents, frequency, severity and occupational illnesses Fairness e) Training W Training policies Fairness W Total number of training hours Fairness f) Equal opportunity W Measures taken to promote gender equality Fairness W Measures taken to promote the employment and integration of people with disabilities Consistency W Anti-discrimination policy Fairness g) Promotion of and compliance with the International Labour Organization’s fundamental conventions concerning: W The right to exercise freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Consistency W The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Consistency W The elimination of forced and compulsory labour Consistency W The effective abolition of child labour Consistency 46 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES CONCORDANCE TABLE FOR LABOUR, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL DATA Environmental indicators (Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code) Level of assurance a) General environmental policy W Structures for addressing environmental issues Consistency W Employee training and awareness initiatives for the protection of the environment Consistency Not covered in view of the Group’s activities W Resources allocated to preventing pollution and other environmental risks as a service provider Consistency W Environmental provisions and warranties No provisions or guarantees b) Pollution and waste management Not covered in view of the Group’s activities W Measures to prevent, reduce and remedy air, water and soil pollution seriously affecting the environment as a service provider W Measures to prevent, recycle and eliminate waste Consistency W Measures to address noise and other forms of pollution speciﬁc to an activity Consistency c) Sustainable use of resources W Water use and supply in relation to local restrictions Consistency W Raw materials use and the measures taken to use them more efﬁciently Fairness W Energy use and the measures taken to improve energy efﬁciency and increase the use of renewable energies Fairness W Land use Consistency d) Climate change W Greenhouse gas emissions Fairness W Measures taken to adapt to climate change Consistency e) Biodiversity protection W Measures taken to protect or develop biodiversity Consistency Social indicators (Articles R.225-104 to R.225-105-2 of the French Commercial Code) Level of assurance a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the Company’s operations W In terms of employment and regional development Consistency W On local residents and communities Consistency b) Relations with people or organisations that have an interest in the Company’s operations W Dialogue with these people and organisations Consistency W Partnership or philanthropy initiatives Fairness c) Subcontractors and suppliers W Integration of labour and environmental issues in purchasing policy Fairness W Outsourcing and the importance of including CSR in dealings with suppliers and subcontractors Fairness d) Fair practices W Action taken to prevent corruption Fairness W Measures taken to promote the health and safety of consumers Consistency e) Other action taken to promote human rights Consistency 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 47 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Detailed indicators of consolidated subsidiaries I Offer protection for everyone PROTECTING POLICYHOLDERS W activities related to user acceptance of individual insurance management applications; CNP Assurances and several subsidiaries have obtained W Âge d’Or Expansion’s services have been “NF Service” ISO 9001 certiﬁcation of their main business processes. The quality certiﬁed since 2011. certiﬁcation scope is expanded each year while ensuring that previously acquired certiﬁcations are renewed. W CNP Argentina’s ISO 9001:2008 certiﬁcation of its management system has been regularly renewed since 2004. W List of CNP Assurances’ certiﬁcations: ISO 9001:2008 It is the ﬁrst life insurance company in Argentina to obtain W the periodical policyholder information process for individual certiﬁcation for both the underwriting and administrative insurance and group pension policies; management of insurance policies. W the entire term creditor insurance process; W Since 2000, CNP Partners’ UNE-EN ISO 9001:2008-compliant quality management system covering the design, underwriting W shorten processing times and improve quality of service; and administration of life insurance policies and pension plans W processing of incident reports and database administration has been AENORand IQNet-certiﬁed. for individual insurance policy applications; W Caixa Seguradora process management and services. I Contribute to a sustainable economy ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES W an ethical code incorporated into CNP CIH’s code of service, with details of the sanctions applied in the case of corruption All subsidiaries provide ethical guidelines through their standard with cap amounts and reporting of gifts; operating procedures, charters or codes: W cap on the value of gifts at MFPrévoyance (added to the W a code of conduct at CNP Assurances with cap amounts and internal code of conduct in 2014); reporting of gifts; W a code of conduct signed by all CNP Partners employees; W a code of ethics at CNP Argentina; W new code of conduct at Caixa Seguradora, signed by all W an ethics charter and code of conduct in Italy, the organisational employees. model is monitored by a specialised committee; 48 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES I Be an attractive employer HUMAN RESOURCES PLANNING: PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES UNDER PERMANENT CONTRACTS, PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN, AVERAGE AGE, GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION Percentage of employees under Geographic permanent contracts Percentage of women Average age distribution 62.1% Paris 12.4% Arcueil 15.7% Angers CNP Assurances (France) 95% 61 46 9.2% in regional ofﬁces MFPrévoyance (France) 91% 72 44 100% Paris LBP Prévoyance (France) 93% 56 40 100% Paris 76% Brasilia Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 100% 58 37 24% in regional ofﬁces 75% Cyprus CNP CIH (Cyprus and Greece) 99% 70 44 25% Greece 78.4% Madrid 19.3% Milan CNP Partners (Spain) 93% 59 42 2.3% Paris 95% Ireland CNP Santander (Ireland) 100% 43 36 5% Italy CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 97% 41 40 100% Milan 98.5% Buenos Aires CNP Argentina (Argentina) 98% 49 34 1.5% in regional ofﬁces CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 87% 37 43 100% Dublin AVERAGE 96% 60 43 WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN BY AGE (%) 100 90 80 70 65 and over 60-64 60 55-59 50 50-54 45-49 40 40-44 30 35-39 20 30-34 25-29 10 20-24 0 Under 20 ces anc e e anc ra ado IH PC s ner ita na nti Life er and ran voy voy art it V rge pe ssu gur CN PP red uro ant PA Pré Pré Se CN niC PA PE PS CN MF LBP xa PU CN CN CN Cai CN 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 49 DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES BREAKDOWN BY PROFESSION AT CNP ASSURANCES 6.32% 4.72% 2.79% 8.25% 3.22% 2.02% 1.86% 16.99% 29.87% 1.46% 10.27% 12.14% Actuaries/statisticians Finance, accounting, budget control Project management support Policy administration Building management/logistics Legal Sales/marketing including Amétis network Management Communication Human Resources Research and advisory Secretarial HIRING New hires CNP Assurances (France) 239 MFPrévoyance (France) 37 LBP Prévoyance (France) 5 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 169 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 11 CNP Partners (Spain) 36 CNP Santander (Ireland) 17 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 10 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 10 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1 TOTAL 535 ANNUAL TURNOVER, DEPARTURES, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS Number of Annual turnover Number of departures Number of dismissals resignations CNP Assurances (France) 3.7% 242 14 29 MFPrévoyance (France) 10.6% 37 0 5 LBP Prévoyance (France) 25.7% 14 0 11 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 13.0% 105 64 41 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 3.2% 9 0 6 CNP Partners (Spain) 12.5% 24 7 13 CNP Santander (Ireland) 10.0% 4 0 3 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 3.2% 10 0 4 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 22.0% 14 3 10 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 30.0% 3 0 3 TOTAL 6.4% 462 88 125 50 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES AVERAGE LENGTH OF SERVICE Average length of service in years CNP Assurances (France) 16 MFPrévoyance (France) 9 LBP Prévoyance (France) 3 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 7 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 14 CNP Partners (Spain) 9 CNP Santander (Ireland) 2 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 7 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 5 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 4 AVERAGE 13 CNP ASSURANCES EMPLOYEES, BY LENGTH OF SERVICE 5.9% 13% 22.4% 11.5% 19.8% 27.4% Less than 3 years 16-21 years 3-9 years 22-27 years 10-15 years 28 years and over USE OF OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS Outside contractors CNP Assurances (France) 157 including 73 for cleaning, 46 for security, 23 for maintenance, 8 for reception 365 for IT (CNP TI intercompany partnership) MFPrévoyance (France) 11 including 6 for IT LBP Prévoyance (France) 2 for cleaning, 1 for IT and 2 for security Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 497 including 36 for cleaning, 12 for security, 5 for reception, 49 for maintenance and 233 for IT CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 47 including 16 for cleaning, 1 for security, 12 for maintenance, 15 for IT, 3 for administration CNP Partners (Spain) 45 including 43 for IT CNP Santander (Ireland) 1 for cleaning, 1 for maintenance CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 20 including 6 for cleaning, 3 for reception, 3 for security and 5 for IT CNP Argentina (Argentina) 18 including 3 for cleaning, 2 for security, 1 for maintenance and 8 for IT CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1 for cleaning 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 51 DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES TRAINING Percentage of the workforce that Number of training received training hours CNP Assurances (France) 93% 58,989 MFPrévoyance (France) 54% 1,105 LBP Prévoyance (France) 66% 1,067 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 92% 29,767 CNP CIH (Cyprus) 22% 506 CNP Partners (Spain) 93% 4,875 CNP Santander (Ireland) 100% 46 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 97% 5,352 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 100% 1,480 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 100% 159 TOTAL 88% 103,346 PERCENTAGE OF CNP ASSURANCES EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVED TRAINING BY CATEGORY 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Class 2 Class 3 Class 4 Class 5 Class 6 Class 7 Senior managers SOCIAL DIALOGUE: NUMBER OF MEETINGS AND AGREEMENTS SIGNED IN 2015 Number of meetings Agreements signed in 2015 5 − annual pay agreement with trade unions, proﬁt-sharing agreement, gender equality, CNP Assurances (France) 77 employees with disabilities MFPrévoyance (France) 19 3 – agreements on disability insurance, pay agreement, retirement savings plan LBP Prévoyance (France) 25 2 – mandatory annual negotiations and participation Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 2 1 – agreement on participation in company proﬁts for employees CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 9 0 CNP Partners (Spain) 4 0 CNP Santander (Ireland) 0 0 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 8 0 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 48 0 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0 0 TOTAL 192 11 52 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES ORGANISATION OF WORKING HOURS Number of hours per Percentage of full-time employees part-time employees CNP Assurances (France) 1,575 21% MFPrévoyance (France) 1,576 12% LBP Prévoyance (France) 1,608 2% Caixa Seguradura (Brazil) 1,980 0% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 1,800 0% CNP Partners (Spain) 1,700 1% CNP Santander (Ireland) 1,950 0% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 1,621 6% CNP Argentina (Argentina) 1,920 2% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 1,807 12% AVERAGE 1,677 14% HEALTH AND SAFETY: ABSENTEEISM 12% 11% 10% 9% 8% 7% 6% 5% 4% 3% 2% 1% 0% ces e anc e anc ado ra PC IH s ner ita na nti Life er and ran voy voy art it V rge pe ssu gur CN PP red uro ant PA Pré Pré Se CN niC PA PE PS CN MF LBP xa PU CN CN CN Cai CN Absenteeism rate excluding maternity leave Maternity leave absenteeism rate REMUNERATION Average annual 2015 across-the-board remuneration pay rise CNP Assurances (France) EUR 57,787 0.42% MFPrévoyance (France) EUR 43,080 0% LBP Prévoyance (France) EUR 73,314 0% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) BRL 66,029 7.40% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) EUR 37,133 0% CNP Partners (Spain) EUR 49,099 2.24% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) EUR 55,008 0% CNP Argentina (Argentina) ARS 382,680 31.50% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) EUR 66,933 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 53 DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES AVERAGE ANNUAL REMUNERATION (IN EUROS) FOR CNP ASSURANCES EMPLOYEES 58,000 57,000 56,000 55,000 54,000 53,000 52,000 51,000 50,000 49,000 48,000 47,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 PROMOTION OF GENDER EQUALITY IN THE WORKPLACE Percentage of women senior Average male/female income ratio Percentage of women managers managers by category CNP Assurances (France) 51% 35% 97% MFPrévoyance (France) 59% 0% 98% LBP Prévoyance (France) 52% 50% 105% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 44% 10% 124% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 38% 20% 108% CNP Partners (Spain) 47% 48% 117% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 39% 22% 107% CNP Argentina (Argentina) 62% 0% 121% AVERAGE 50% 33% 105% EMPLOYMENT AND INTEGRATION OF EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES Percentage of disabled employees CNP Assurances (France) 6.4% MFPrévoyance (France) 2.6% LBP Prévoyance (France) 0% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 0.5% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 0% CNP Partners (Spain) 0% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 6.1% CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0% AVERAGE 4% 54 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES I Promote a sustainable society and environment CONNECTION HOURS OF VIDEO CONFERENCING 2015 CNP Assurances (France) 8,247 MFPrévoyance (France) 0 LBP Prévoyance (France) 0 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 3,032 CNP CIH (Cyprus) 122 CNP Partners (Spain) 230 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 76 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 35 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0 TOTAL 11,742 AIR TRAVEL (in million km travelled by plane) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CNP Assurances (France) 4.30 3.30 2.73 3.48 3.20 MFPrévoyance (France) n/a 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 LBP Prévoyance (France) n/a 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.07 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 6.09 8.48 7.99 8.91 11.2 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 0.26 0.30 0.40 0.29 0.29 CNP Partners (Spain) 0.75 0.65 0.51 0.52 0.44 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.72 0.13 0.24 0.18 0.13 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0.05 0.06 0.05 0.25 0.20 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.08 0.05 TOTAL 12.2 13.4 12.3 13.90 15.55 CAR TRAVEL (in million km travelled by car) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CNP Assurances (France) n/a n/a n/a n/a 9.43 MFPrévoyance (France) n/a 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.04 LBP Prévoyance (France) n/a 0.13 0.15 0.26 0.18 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 0.2 0.11 0.1 0.1 0.12 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 0.42 0.34 n/a n/a n/a CNP Partners (Spain) 0.19 0.21 0.31 0.36 0.38 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) n/a n/a n/a 0 0 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0.17 0.13 0.1 0.11 0.065 TOTAL 0.98 0.98 0.72 0.89 10.22 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 55 DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES USE OF CONSUMABLES FOR INTERNAL PURPOSES Percentage of Paper use for internal purposes In millions of sheets recycled paper CNP Assurances (France) 22.2 23.9% MFPrévoyance (France) 0.3 0% LBP Prévoyance (France) 0.2 n/a Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 1.1 0% CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) * 6.3 0% CNP Partners (Spain) 1.1 0% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.9 100% CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0.5 10% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.03 100% TOTAL 32.6 19.4% * Including paper used by CNP CIH agents Computer consumables (number of cartridges) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CNP Assurances (France) 7,572 8,288 7,860 6,151 6,919 MFPrévoyance (France) n/a n/a n/a 64 106 LBP Prévoyance (France) n/a 79 84 80 72 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 594 406 n/a n/a n/a CNP Partners (Spain) 120 80 110 115 166 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) n/a 135 145 128 91 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 40 48 n/a 180 120 CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 9 12 14 13 11 TOTAL 8,335 9,048 8,213 6,731 7,485 ELECTRICITY Electricity use (in millions of kWh) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CNP Assurances (France) 17.5 18 18.34 16.93 17.70 MFPrévoyance (France) n/a 0.35 0.36 0.30 0.29 LBP Prévoyance (France) n/a 0.09 0.07 0.09 0.14 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 1.19 1.32 1.19 1.61 1.22 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) 0.33 0.34 1.36 1.52 1.50 CNP Partners (Spain) 0.25 0.31 0.31 0.30 0.28 CNP Santander (Ireland) 0.05 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 0.08 0.63 0.67 0.61 0.75 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0.14 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.13 TOTAL 19.5 21.2 22.5 21.6 22.07 56 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES DISTRICT HEATING SYSTEM USE BY CNP ASSURANCES (MILLION KWH) 5 4 3 2 1 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 WATER USE Water use (in thousands of cubic metres) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CNP Assurances (France) 45.8 43.5 41.1 32.9 27.7 MFPrévoyance (France) n/a 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.9 LBP Prévoyance (France) n/a 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 33.5 35.5 39.9 28.2 24.3 CNP CIH (Cyprus/Greece) * 2.9 3.0 CNP Partners (Spain) 0.6 0.7 0.9 1.5 1.7 CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 1.8 1.5 3 3.2 3.6 CNP Argentina (Argentina) 1.9 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.5 TOTAL 83.8 84.2 88.2 71.9 63.2 * CNP CIH data for the years prior to 2014 have not been reported due to uncertainty about their accurency. BUSINESS PAPER Proportion of paper certiﬁed environmentally Business paper use In millions of sheets sustainable CNP Assurances (France) * 103.4 99.96% MFPrévoyance (France) 0.8 100% Caixa Seguradora (Brazil) 4.8 100% CNP CIH (Cyprus) 2.6 0% CNP Partners (Spain) 0.2 0% CNP UniCredit Vita (Italy) 4.5 100% CNP Argentina (Argentina) 0.2 0% CNP Europe Life (Ireland) 0.008 100% TOTAL 116.5 89.4% * Including corporate brochures 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 57 DETAILED INDICATORS OF CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES CNP ASSURANCES GROUP’S PARTIAL GREENHOUSE BREAKDOWN OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GAS EMISSIONS CNP ASSURANCES GROUP 2% As part of the CSR approach, we decided to consolidate the results of our GHG emissions audits for all of our consolidated 16% subsidiaries. Since 2013, the consolidated assessment is based on data available from existing environmental reporting and 33% covers the main emissions sources: electricity, gas, heating oil, paper for internal operations, waste and business travel. It does not cover refrigerant gases (minor in terms of emissions), purchases of services, freight (minor in terms of emissions), commuting and visitors. It is carried out using the Bilan Carbone® method and the ADEME carbon database. In 2015, the Group’s partial GHG emissions stood at 9,980 t.CO2 eq., representing an average of 2.10 t.CO2 eq. for each of its 4,740 employees. The biggest emissions sources 5% were business travel by plane (4,130 t.CO2 eq.) and energy use 41% 3% (3,250 t.CO2 eq.). Electricity use Business travel by train (0%) Gas use Business travel by car Heating oil use Paper for internal operations Business travel by air Waste (0%) 58 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES Social and environmental indicators of non-consolidated subsidiaries For CNP Assurances, social responsibility extends beyond the companies consolidated for ﬁnancial reporting purposes. As of 31 December 2015, three companies that were more than 50% owned but were not consolidated – Assuristance, CNP TI and Âge d’Or – were also monitored for CSR compliance. Scope W 17 Âge d’Or employees (excluding franchisees) in Troyes and other locations (286 sq.m.). W 159 Assuristance employees in the Saint-Cloud ofﬁces (3,295 sq.m.), including 66 from Filassistance and 93 from W 365 CNP TI employees based in CNP Assurances ofﬁces (data Garantie Assistance. included in CNP Assurances ﬁgures). I 2015 social indicators Workforce identiﬁed for improvement (management strategy and Human Resources). The single document has also been ﬁnalised and distributed this year. Workforce Percentage of women Average age 541 37.45% 44.63 Training and career management The number of employees has increased very little (0.37%). A total of 11,453 hours of training were offered in the three Outside contractors are used mainly for cleaning and IT. subsidiaries. The proportion of women has remained at around 60% for the CNP TI launched the “Skills” project during the year, based on an insurance/assistance companies. It is lower in the IT sector, at analysis of the match between each employee’s existing skills and 26%. career objectives, as expressed during the annual performance review, and CNP Assurances’s strategy. By highlighting the most Workforce management appropriate development opportunities, this approach is helping employees to advance more rapidly in their career. Number of Number of new Length of service Turnover departures hires Employee dialogue 13.8 years 4.3% 62 67 A total of 79 meetings were held by the three subsidiaries in 2015, including 22 meetings of the Occupational Health, Part-time employees represent 13% of the total. Nearly Safety and Working Conditions Committee and 57 meetings 7,010 overtime hours were clocked in 2015. Departures with employees representatives. primarily corresponded to ﬁxed-term contracts coming to an end (34) and resignations (8). Three dismissals were recorded At CNP TI, the indicators relating to the gender equality in 2015. agreement are presented annually to the EC. The agreement on the employment of seniors is also the subject of an annual spot Health and safety review. Two new agreements were signed at Assuristance: a proﬁtTotal absenteeism rate sharing agreement and mandatory annual negotiations. (excluding CNP TI – not available) Absenteeism rate excluding maternity leave Equal opportunities 12.2% 4.1% There were two workplace accidents in 2015. Percentage of women Percentage of women managers senior managers At CNP TI, the psychosocial risk prevention commission 32.9% 25.6% held 15 meetings during the year and various projects were implemented to reduce these risks. A social barometer was Between them, the three subsidiaries employed ﬁve people with performed in 2015, the results were analysed, three areas were disabilities and four people under vocational training contracts. 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES 59 SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS OF NON-CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES I 2015 environmental indicators CNP TI’s environmental data on paper and electricity use are Waste included in CNP Assurances’ environmental data. Assuristance has introduced a collection system for batteries (6 kg), paper (2.6 tonnes) and ink cartridges. Its paper recycling Consumption initiative allows it to help people excluded from the job market to ﬁnd employment. Âge d’Or has purchased waste sorting bins for Paper Electricity its nine employees in Troyes. 1,236,500 sheets 245,390 kWh Paper use signiﬁcantly increased in 2015, particularly due to Measures taken to reduce environmental impact the printing of advertising materials at Âge d’Or, despite the Filassistance has adopted the “green letter” economical and shift to duplex printing by all three entities and the development ecofriendly mail delivery service. For urgent deliveries of letters of projects to introduce digital formats and optimise printing and parcels in Paris and the surrounding area, Filassistance resources. uses a bicycle courier service, with which it has signed a code of ethics and social responsibility, as a means of reducing CO2 Electricity use is down 50% since 2014 when Garantie Assistance emissions. moved to new ofﬁces. 60 2015 CSR REPORT CNP ASSURANCES + + Find us at Discover cnp.fr the world of lyfe.fr Directly access your own space: The health and well-being services platform for individual, partner, applicant, journalist, our partners, to make life easier for their shareholder, analyst/investor. beneficiaries. Download our publications: annual report, registration document, etc. + + Have fun at Follow us on Twitter cespetiteschoses.fr and Facebook You will be given some simple tips for a long and happy life. @CNP_Assurances cnpassurances.officiel linkedin.com/company/cnp Ap ril 2016 – CNP Assurances – Sustainable De velop ment department – Cover design and production : HAVAS Worldwide Paris – Document design and publication : Labrador – P hotos : © Getty Images/Westend61-Chad Springe (cover) and Franck Juery (page 1) Re f. CNP/2016/B-CSR-R 2015/DVD CNP Assurances | Registered ofﬁAssurances CNP SiègeDautry, ce: 4, place|Raoul social : 75716 4, placeParis RaoulCedex | Tel.:Paris 1575716 Dautry, +33(0) 1 421518 Cedex 88 88 | Tél. 18 88 88 | Caisse des Dépôts Group www.cnp.fr : 01|42 www.cnp.fr | Groupe Caisse des Dépôts
