Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 Company Overview.......................................................................................4 Sustainability in ABM Operations.......................................................13 Sustainability in ABM Services ............................................................16 ABM in the Community ...........................................................................23 ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 2 G4-1 Statement from the Most Senior It is an honor to be the seventh CEO in ABM’s 107-year Lifting, Electrical Safety, Pushing/Pulling Safety, Fire Decision-Maker of the Company history. 2015 was a defining year for us as we initiated Safety, and Situational Safety Awareness. a bold new vision to transform our business from a Letter to Investors ABM is grateful to have the opportunity to impact tens company organized by service lines to a company of thousands of lives every day. In 2015, we saw more organized by industry. This change, from a services employees than ever roll up their sleeves and give back provider to a solutions provider, has aligned us more to their communities – and we are working on plans to closely with our clients, allowing us to continue to be a further enhance the ability of ABM employees to give highly-valued partner. back to their local communities. Amidst that change at ABM, our commitment to While I have been with the company for over 12 years, sustainability remains as strong as ever. ABM remains I’ve never been more proud to be part of ABM than I am committed to the UN Global Compact and we are proud at this very moment. Our team’s passion and dedication to be part of this international sustainability policy is incredible. As our business evolves, we are committed initiative. Whether we’re streamlining efficiencies for to our people and shared environment. We strive to be clients, maintaining a keen focus on how our operations accountable as an organization – to our own people, to our impact our shared environment, creating new jobs, clients, and to future generations. or giving back to the communities in which we serve, sustainability is paramount. I’m proud of all that we accomplished in 2015. And we walk the walk, having reported on our sustainability efforts for the past five years – following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and submitting our report each year for an independent third Scott Salmirs party audit assessment by the Centre for Sustainability President & CEO, ABM and Excellence (CSE). In particular, Safety performance is top of mind at ABM. We remain deeply focused on cultivating our “ThinkSafe” culture and are taking technological measures to help our employees have best-in-class claims management reporting processes, among other initiatives. Additionally, training remains a critical component of our safety program. Employees are provided awareness training monthly, in addition to regulatory training related to their job. These include Bloodborne pathogens, Safe ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 3 Company Overview G4-3 Name of the organization. Our facility services include onsite mechanical energy savings performance contracts for a wide engineering and technical services and solutions for variety of clients in both the private and public ABM Industries Incorporated facilities and infrastructure systems for a variety of sectors. This segment also provides services for G4-4 Report the primary brands, facilities, including commercial office buildings and healthcare clients, including facility management, products, and services. infrastructure, data centers, educational institutions, environmental services, food and nutrition high technology manufacturing facilities, museums, services, and clinical technology management. It ABM is a leading provider of end-to-end integrated resorts, airports and other transportation centers, also provides support to U.S. Government entities facility solutions to thousands of commercial, and shopping centers. These services are designed for specialty service solutions, such as military industrial, institutional, retail, residential, and to extend the useful life of facility fixed assets, base operations, public works departments, governmental facilities located primarily throughout improve equipment operating efficiencies, reduce leadership development, education and training, the United States. Our comprehensive capabilities energy consumption, lower overall operational costs energy efficiency management, healthcare support include electrical & lighting, energy solutions, for clients, and enhance the sustainability of client services, and construction management. These facilities engineering, HVAC & mechanical, janitorial, locations. Facility services are provided in 42 states services are designed to extend the useful life of landscape & turf, mission critical solutions, parking, and the District of Columbia, as well as in certain facility fixed assets, improve equipment operating and commercial aviation support services, which we international locations. efficiencies, reduce energy consumption, lower provide through stand-alone or integrated solutions. overall operational costs for clients, and enhance Following is a general description of the services we Our parking services provide parking and the sustainability of client locations. provide, with reference to our reporting segments. transportation services for clients at many facilities, including commercial office buildings, ABM’s aviation group provides facility solutions to Our janitorial segment provides a wide range airports and other transportation centers, clients in our aviation vertical related to passenger of essential janitorial services for a variety of educational institutions, health facilities, hotels, assistance, including wheelchair operations, aircraft facilities, including commercial office buildings, municipalities, retail centers, and stadiums and cabin cleaning, janitorial services, shuttle bus educational institutions, government buildings, arenas. Parking services are provided in 41 states operations, and access control. ABM’s aviation group health facilities, industrial buildings, retail stores, and the District of Columbia. operates in 24 states and the United Kingdom. shopping centers, stadiums and arenas, airports and other transportation centers, and warehouses. Our Building & Energy Solutions group provides Brands that are also part of the ABM family are These services include general cleaning and dusting, custom energy solutions, HVAC, electrical, lighting listed on our website. carpet cleaning, floor cleaning and finishing, and other general maintenance and repair services. G4-5 Location of ABM’s headquarters. furniture polishing, window washing, and other These services include preventative maintenance, building cleaning services. Janitorial services are retro commissioning, installations, retrofits New York, NY provided in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and upgrades, environmental services, systems and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, as well as in start-ups, performance testing, energy audits, certain international locations. mechanical and energy efficient products and solutions, and bundled energy solutions that include ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 4 Company Overview G4-6 Number of countries where G4-7 Report the nature of ownership the organization operates. and legal form. Primary operations occur in the United States. ABM ABM is incorporated under the laws of the State operates in approximately 30 countries. of Delaware and is a publically traded company, governed by a board of directors. ABM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange [NYSE: ABM] The person or entities known to ABM to be beneficial owners of more than 5% of the shares of ABM common stock as of December 31, 2015 are set forth below. This disclosure is based on a review of Schedule 13G filings and Schedule 13D filings. • Bank of America Corporation, directly and on behalf of certain subsidiaries • Blackrock, Inc. • Vanguard Group, Inc. G4-8 Report the markets served The markets referenced are US only. • Aviation • Banking & Financial Services • Biopharma • Commercial Buildings • Data Centers • Education ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 5 Company Overview • Government • Report the total workforce by region and gender. Commencing in the spring of 2015, ABM undertook a comprehensive strategic review to develop • Healthcare Employee % % Age Age Age a long-term strategic plan for our business. In Total 30Breakdown* Male Female <30 >50 • Industrial & Manufacturing 50 September of this year, we announced the 2020 Mgt 7,212 61% 39% 23% 42% 35% Vision strategic transformation initiative (the “2020 • Mission Critical Non-Mgt 107,446 55% 45% 9% 52% 39% Vision”), which is designed to, and which we expect will, drive long-term profitable growth and enhance • Retail Employee Union* and Employment Status Breakdown* shareholder value. Pursuant to our 2020 Vision, Employees Union Non-Union Full-time Part-time we will reorganize the delivery of our services • Sports & Entertainment 114,658 57% 43% 72% 28% through an industry-based go-to-market strategy that will initially focus on five verticals: Aviation, G4-9 Report the scale of the * The data presented in this table is as of December 31, 2015. Business and Industry, Education, Healthcare, and organization, including: G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements. High Tech. We believe this will position us to deliver • Total number of employees: value-added solutions, establish clear competitive ABM is party to approximately 200 active differentiation, and enable deep client penetration. • Total number of operations: collective bargaining agreements across the U.S. These collective bargaining agreements are To execute on our 2020 Vision, we will take the • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net following actions: periodically renegotiated through bargaining revenues (for public sector organizations) : with labor representatives, and set terms for • Organizational Realignment : Align business Number of employees 114,658 wages, benefits and other terms and conditions of operations to better support specific industries Net revenues $4,897.8 employment. For single-site collective bargaining and develop custom client solutions, including Diluted earnings per share $1.33 agreements, ABM bargains directly with labor transitioning to an integrated, industry-focused representatives. For area-wide agreements, ABM company, with a simplified organizational Dollar amounts in millions, except per share frequently bargains in a group of employers who structure, and a consolidated shared services amounts. Information relates to ABM’s the fiscal are covered by the same agreement. model. year ending October 31, 2015. G4-13 Significant changes during • Consistent Excellence: Implement best practices G4-10 Report the total number of employees the reporting period. in account management and labor management by employment contract and gender. In January 2015, ABM named Scott Salmirs as across the organization, and develop a more • Report the total number of permanent employees president and CEO, effective March 31, 2015. integrated approach for continuous improvement by employment type and gender. in our risk and safety programs. In April 2015, ABM Named Anthony Scaglione as • Report the total workforce by employees and executive vice president and CFO. • Cost Optimization : Leverage our scale to supervised workers and by gender. manage costs more efficiently and effectively, ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 6 Company Overview including supplier consolidation and process and management, diversity and inclusion, employee adverse effect on our financial position, results of procurement enhancement. training and safety, and employee health; operations, or cash flows. • Talent Development : Create greater • Responsibility in the marketplace revolves around ABM holds its suppliers and contractors to a high opportunities and career paths for ABM client safety, service quality, responsible sourcing standard. ABM is committed to complying with all employees by further developing our talent and supply chain management, and proper and laws prohibiting child labor, including adherence management system capabilities. responsible marketing practices; to minimum age provisions of applicable laws and regulations. This includes ABM’s internal Significant Transactions • Responsibility in the environment is centered on workforce and our suppliers. ABM also expects its our energy and resource efficiency, reducing or subcontractors to commit to proper treatment of On October 26, 2015, we sold all of the assets of our eliminating drains on the environments we share Security business to Universal Protection Service, their workers, specifically including Human Rights and reusing or repurposing products we use and and Freedom of Association. a division of Universal Services of America, for predistribute to maximize their lifecycle; and tax proceeds of $131.0 million. G4-15 Externally developed economic, • Responsibility in the community is the culmination environmental and social charters, We expanded our HVAC and Energy Solutions of the first three principals as those feed directly presence in the DC Metro area with the acquisition principles, or other initiatives to into how we affect the public at large within our which the organization subscribes of CTS Services and Facility Support Services. circle of influence. or which it endorses. G4-14 Report whether and how the Our operations are subject to various federal, state precautionary approach or principle UN Global Compact and/or local laws regulating discharge of materials is addressed by the organization. into the environment or otherwise relating to the Green Parking Council Enterprise risks are reviewed by ABM’s Enterprise protection of the environment, such as discharge Green Sports Alliance – Green Cleaning Playbook Risk Management Committee on a periodic basis. into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, This committee includes divisional and functional storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and Healthcare without Harm leadership. The Enterprise Risk Management hazardous substances. These laws generally have Committee identifies key enterprise risks. The the effect of increasing costs and potential liabilities G4-16 List memberships of associations Company’s Board of Directors receives regular associated with the conduct of our operations. In addition, from time to time, we are involved in We are a member of numerous trade and industry reports from the Risk Management Committee.. environmental matters at certain of our locations groups. Our group memberships include: ABM continues to move forward with the or in connection with our operations. Historically, • Stadium Managers Association integration of sustainability into our business the cost of complying with environmental laws or strategy following the four key principles: resolving environmental issues relating to United • National Parking Association (NPA) States locations or operations has not had a material • Responsibility in the workplace relates to a broad range of items including labor standards, talent ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 7 Company Overview • Building Owners and Managers Association • Institute of Real Estate Management (IREM) evolved from various internal discussions with key (BOMA) stakeholders as well as a materiality assessment G4-17 ABM’s consolidated financial statements following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • Healthcare Information and Management ABM annually discloses a list of all consolidated framework. An index of the GRI indicators and Systems Association (HIMMS) subsidiaries as of the fiscal year-end in Exhibit 21 metrics is provided here, linking the applicable • American College of Healthcare Executives to ABM’s Annual Report on Form 10-K. ABM’s 2015 topics with the corresponding page(s). For the Annual Report on Form 10-K was filed with the SEC fourth year in a row, we submitted our report to the • National School Boards Association (NSBA) Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) for on December 17, 2015. an independent audit assessment. • Professional Retail Store Maintenance (PRSM) G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Additional information about the company can • International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) be found at ABM.com and in our filings with the • Association for the Advancement of Medical Corporate Sustainability Reporting Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and Instrumentation (AAMI) can be accessed at the “Investors” section of the Our approach to sustainability is based upon company website The ABM Corporate Sustainability • American Association of Airport Executives addressing known and perceived stakeholder needs. Report covers the corporate activities and services (AAAE) With ABM’s primary stakeholders being clients, provided by ABM and its subsidiaries throughout employees, shareholders and the communities North America and various international locations. • Green Sports Alliance in which we serve, people drive our strategy, The report is designed to introduce ABM, our and understanding the varied and sometimes • American Society for Healthcare Engineering services, and organizational structure. We identify intertwined needs of these groups is paramount to (ASHE) our key impacts, risks and opportunities relating the success of ABM’s sustainability program. to our corporate sustainability initiatives, and the • National Association of College and University primary stakeholders for whom our sustainability Readers can send feedback, comments or questions Business Officers (NACUBO) commitment is most impactful. We also discuss our regarding our sustainability plans and progress to ABM’s Corporate Communications team at governance for ensuring we perform with utmost • North Central Healthcare Alliance (NCHA) sustainability@abm.com. We welcome your insights integrity on behalf of our stakeholders. Also critical • International Association of Venue Managers on how we can meet our shared commitment to a to our sustainability platform are: (IAVM) sustainable world. • Sustainability in ABM Operations • International Downtown Association (IDA) Report Parameters • Sustainability in ABM Services • International Facility Management Association This is ABM’s sixth Sustainability Report and covers • Our People (IFMA) activities related to our 2015 fiscal year that ended October 31, 2015. The development of this report • Social Responsibility • Airports Council International (ACI) ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 8 Company Overview G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in location where the Aspect is material for the G4-24  Provide a List of Stakeholder Groups the process for defining report content. entities identified Engaged by the Organization. and • Report any specific limitation regarding the ABM identifies our stakeholders as our clients, G4-20  For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary outside the organization employees, vendor partners, distributors, and the the Aspect Boundary within the communities in which we serve. For ABM, a topic is of material interest if it is organization, as follows: considered relevant based on ABM stakeholders • Report whether the Aspect is material within the feedback as well as our own perspective. organization • If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization • If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 9 Company Overview G4-25 Report the basis for identification Our employees continue to be the driving force G4-28 Reporting period and selection of stakeholders behind everything we do at ABM, and we seek to Unless otherwise indicated, this report covers our with whom to engage. deliver value for our shareholders each day. Finally, 2015 fiscal year which ended October 31, 2015. and ABM feels a keen sense of responsibility to operate responsibly both for and within the communities in G4-29 Date of most recent previous G4-26 Report the organization’s approach which we operate and serve. report (if any). to stakeholder engagement, including G4-27 Report key topics and concerns Fiscal 2014 frequency of engagement by type and that have been raised through (November 1, 2013 through October 31, 2014) by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as was undertaken specifically as part organization has responded to those annual, biennial). of the report preparation process. key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the Annual Key stakeholders: clients, employees, shareholders, stakeholder groups that raised each vendor partners, distributors, and the communities of the key topics and concerns. G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions in which we serve. regarding the report or its contents. In 2015, ABM sought feedback from major With ABM’s services are generally provided at our stakeholders, including various employees, clients Readers can send feedback, comments or questions clients’ locations, and are often an integral part and vendor partners regarding our sustainability plans and progress of our clients’ sustainability integration (e.g. – to ABM’s Corporate Communication team at cleaning, facility maintenance, energy conservation, Material Issues 2016 – Based on ABM Stakeholder sustainability@abm.com. security, safety, etc.). Therefore, our approach to Feedback sustainability begins within ABM’s service offerings Labor Practices Product Year Economic Environmental Human Rights Society and solutions. and Decent Work Responsibility 2016 •E conomic • Effluents & • Employment •N on•L  ocal •C ustomer Our next known need was identified as ABM’s portion Performance Waste Discrimination Communities Privacy •O  ccupational within our clients’ supply chain. While not a carbon • Supplier Health & Safety • Anti-Corruption •C ustomer Health intensive company, the decision to identify and track Environmental •T raining & •A  nti& Safety Assessment our emission levels using Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Education Competitive • Compliance  Behavior Protocol toolsets and thinking of our company’s role, •D  iversity & Equal risks and potential gains in relation to climate change Opportunity brought Sustainability integration out of merely a •E  qual service element and into a business component. Remuneration for Women & Men ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 10 Company Overview G4-32 GRI Content Index other responsibilities, the Audit Committee reviews G4-EC1 Direct Economic Value policies with respect to risk management and the Generated And Distributed GRI G4 Company’s major financial risk exposures. Financial information can found in ABM’s 2015 G4-33 ABM’s policy and current practice ABM’s Compensation Committee has responsibility Annual Report on Form 10-K. with regard to seeking external for providing direction to the Company in the assurance for the report. G4-EC2 Financial Implications And area of executive compensation, and monitors Other Risks And Opportunities For the fifth year in a row, we submitted our report potential risks that may be associated with ABM’s Due To Climate Change to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence compensation programs. (CSE) for an independent audit assessment. Our operations are subject to various federal, state ABM’s Governance Committee is responsible and/or local laws regulating discharge of materials Governance for identifying qualified candidates for into the environment or otherwise relating to the membership on the Board and for developing Governance protection of the environment, such as discharge and recommending to the Board corporate into soil, water, and air, and the generation, handling, governance principles and policies. • Committee Composition storage, transportation, and disposal of waste and ABM’s Corporate Citizenship and Communications hazardous substances. These laws generally have • Directors Committee is responsible for providing oversight the effect of increasing costs and potential liabilities • Governance Documents and advice with respect to various matters, including associated with the conduct of our operations. sustainability and environmental and green energy In addition, from time to time, we are involved in At ABM, our governance structure, along with our issues as well as health and safety issues. environmental matters at certain of our locations Code of Business Conduct, provide the framework or in connection with our operations. Historically, for us to serve our clients, stakeholders and More information about ABM’s governance the cost of complying with environmental laws or employees with integrity. ABM’s Board of Directors structure can be found in ABM’s 2016 Proxy resolving environmental issues relating to United is responsible for overseeing the business and Statement. Additional information concerning our States locations or operations has not had a material strategy of the Company. ABM currently has 10 Board and governance can also be found at Investor. adverse effect on our financial position, results of directors, including our Chief Executive Officer. ABM.com. operations, or cash flows. All of our directors, other than our Chief Executive G4-56 Values, principles, standards G4-EC3 ABM’s Defined Benefit Plan Obligations Officer, are independent. One of our independent and norms of behavior. directors serves as Chairman of the Board. ABM Employee Benefits Code of Business Conduct ABM’s Audit Committee oversees the Company’s ABM offers a comprehensive benefits package to financial reporting process and assists the Board ABM Vision & Core Values meet the diverse needs of our full-time employees. with respect to the Company’s compliance with The benefits offered include: medical, dental, vision, legal and regulatory requirements. In addition to its life and disability along with a 401(k) plan. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 11 Company Overview Note: Service Worker and union workers benefits are provided consistent with their employment and/ or client contract. G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. ABM does not receive significant financial assistance from any host government. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 12 Sustainability in ABM Operations ABM is keenly focused on how our facilities and Actual data was gathered through our online For all of your targets, please operations affect our shared environment. Just as survey when available. For offices that did not have provide details on the progress we are Building Value for clients through worldreadily available data or the electricity is included made in the reporting year. class services, we continually seek to enhance our within common area maintenance (CAM) charges, ID % complete % complete Comment organizational efficiencies and reduce ABM’s own estimations were made based upon similar sized (time) (emissions) carbon footprint across the enterprise. Every day, offices of the same region or previous year data (if Int1 44% 90.9% we walk the sustainability talk. available). G4-EN3 Energy Consumption EN-6 Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved MWh as a direct result of conservation Electricity 16443 and efficiency initiatives Motor Gasoline 182560 Diesel 7490 ABM has committed to reducing our metric tons Biogasoline 274 of CO2E per FTE Equivalent by 15% from our 2011 Natural Gas 7292 year baseline by 2020. The types of energy included CNG 9 in the reductions include purchased electricity, fleet fuel usage and natural gas used at our office The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate locations. Accounting and Reporting Standard ID Scope % reduction Metric Base Normalized Target Comment (Revised Edition) from base year base year year year emissions Data of natural gas use in leased offices was Int 1 Scope 1+2 15% metric tonnes CO2e 2011 58120.15 2020 ABM has committed to reducing our metric tons per FTE employee of CO2E per FTE Equivalent by 15% from our gathered through a survey. Offices in which the 2011 year. utilities are included in common area maintenance (CAM) were estimated based upon similarity to other known offices of that size and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of fuel used by vehicle, by model year were analyzed. Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty Vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 13 Sustainability in ABM Operations G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Scope 2 Actual electricity data was gathered G4-EN8, 9, 10 Emissions (Scope 1) through our online survey when available. For While ABM strives to minimize our water usage in offices that did not have readily available data or and the delivery of services (e.g. – Microfiber, Automatic the electricity is included within CAM charges, Scrubbing versus Pressure Washing, etc.) our water G4-EN16 E  nergy Indirect Greenhouse Gas estimations were made based upon similar sized usage is primarily under the client’s control as (GHG) Emissions (Scope 2) offices of the same region or previous year data (if required by the specifications within our contracts. available). and Additionally, as our service delivery occurs at our Scope 3 -mployee Air Travel Miles, by passenger client’s locations we do not have the ability to G4-EN17 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas mile, by flight length <300, 300 1000, >1000 miles separately meter our usage from the client’s usage. (GHG) Emissions (Scope 3) acquired through centralized booking. Added in 2014 was the mileage of aviation service fleet ABM’s direct and indirect GHG Emissions from 2015 vehicles (buses, trucks, etc.) input into GHG Protocol are listed in the below table: Transport tool. The actual gallons used was not able 2015 2014 to be tracked as client supplies the fuel at their Scope 1 CO2 e Tonnes 47,309 47,763 own fuel stations. Mileage per gallon estimated via Scope 2 CO2 e Tonnes 8,790 9,696 percentage of vehicle types. Scope 3 CO2 e Tonnes 27,467 27,272 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Intensity Fuel used MWh 190,333 198,398 Electricity Used MWh 16,433 17,981 a. Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. Scope 1 Data of natural gas use in leased offices b. Report the organization-specific metric (the ratio was gathered through a survey. Offices in which the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. utilities are included in CAM were estimated based upon similarity to other known offices of that size c. Report the types of GHG emissions included in and region of the country. Fleet data of gallons of the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect fuel used by vehicle, by model year were analyzed. (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3). Fuel purchases not directly assigned to a specific d. Report gases included in the calculation. vehicle were calculated as a Light-Duty Vehicle (small truck/van) as that is our primary vehicle type. . G4-EN23 Waste ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 14 Sustainability in ABM Operations From Oct. 2014 through Oct. 2015, ABM securely ABM’s suppliers fall into several categories. These sustainability considerations in order to partner shredded and recycled 81.310 short (US) ton(s) include suppliers for internal operations (office with ABM. [162,619,.632 pounds] of paper in 2015, which supplies, Information Technology, communications, G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential resulted in the below estimated environmental utilities, etc.), suppliers for products used in our negative environmental impacts in benefits – ABM works with Iron Mountain to services (cleaning chemicals, cleaning equipment, the supply chain and actions taken. accumulate this data. paper and plastic liner products, engineering HVAC, alternative energy components, fleet vehicles, • Carbon Footprint: 117,736.880 lbs of CO2 landscape materials) and suppliers for external emissions avoided = 11.383 cars off the road per marketing and communications (consultants, G4-PR8 T  otal Number of Substantiated year printing, materials). Complaints Regarding Breaches of Customer Privacy and • Landfill Space: 406.550 Cubic Yards of landfill Losses of Customer Data space conserved In 2015, ABM had zero known data breaches • Trees: 1,364.382 trees preserved involving client locations. • Energy: 183,760.600 kWh of electricity saved = 487.860 years of energy demand for a laptop • Water: 2,228,788.410 Gallons of water saved = 243.930 pools full of water saved G4-12 Describe ABM’s organization’s supply chain ABM Supply Chain G4-EN29 Monetary fines from Significant ABM uses strategically located distributors, Environmental Sanctions providing an efficient locally-based way for our None. employees to order and receive the products used in our daily service delivery to clients. Having G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were strategic local vendors placed near various urban screened using environmental criteria locations enables ABM to minimize the Company’s impact of transporting machines, cleaning materials, As part of ABM’s network of 33 primary suppliers, et al. between work sites. our three new additions in fiscal 2015 required ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 15 Sustainability in ABM Services We’ve built our strong reputation in part by • Parking: ABM’s customized mobile app, pay by Janitorial GreenCare® continually striving to improve upon our client phone option, and web services help drivers spend less time in their cars. ABM GreenCare services surpassed 450 million service offerings through our ABM GreenCare® square feet of implementation in 201, 229 million program. As part of the program, we actively work • Landscape & Turf: ABM utilizes alternative fuel square feet of which is LEED certified. Just as is with our clients on a wide range of these efforts, and water-efficient irrigation systems to help the case across our entire line of services, ABM from energy reduction to green cleaning and LEED® keep clients’ properties sustainable. Janitorial is utilizing technology to upgrade our certification. sustainable offerings. This includes electrically • Aviation: Per several aviation client contract ABM GreenCare® activated water systems that produce general agreements, ABM’s GreenCare Program is an cleaning and sanitizing solutions from water, salt ABM GreenCare® helps clients make improvements integral part of our services at those locations. and electricity. These allow ABM to produce safe, in four key areas: environmental and social ABM’s commitment to measuring its own non-toxic daily cleaning solutions onsite and reduce responsibility, employee productivity and retention, performance has led to some eye-opening statistics packaging, transportation and storage issues property protection and fiscal responsibility. This relating to its clients’ sustainability efforts, including: associated with traditional chemicals. program’s offerings span our businesses and the key industries we serve. Within our service offerings, • ABM GreenCare has been implemented at over ABM continues to identify new products and some of the key value-adds the GreenCare program 1,000 buildings, totaling more than 450 million methods to operate more efficiently for our offers ABM clients include: square feet across the United States. clients and stay on the forefront of sustainable practices and new innovations in cleaning methods • Janitorial: Green cleaning programs with Green • ABM has assisted approximately 229 million and equipment. Through our strong, established Seal certified equipment and chemicals to square feet worth of client buildings with relationships with industry-leading supply, chemical improve indoor environmental quality for building products and procedures to maintain certification and raw material manufacturers we are actively occupants; recycling programs and touch-free through the Leadership in Energy and implementing new solutions such as: water conservation; LEED certification assistance Environmental Design (LEED) rating system. for clients. • Bio-based cleaning alternatives • Since December 2010, ABM’s Bundled Energy • Energy: ABM’s energy conservation methods Solutions program reduced clients’ energy use by • Specialized cleaning solutions for various surface for clients include its Bundled Energy Solutions over 21 percent saving them over $30M. types that increase productivity Program, Electric Vehicle (EV) Charging • ABM has installed over 6,000 EV charging • Electrically Activated Water Cleaning Solutions Station installation and maintenance and solar capabilities for fixed/reduced energy costs. stations across the United States with many more expected in 2016. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 16 Sustainability in ABM Services As a member of the U.S. Green Building Council demand high for our offerings. Key among our fiscal G4-EN7 Reductions In Energy Requirements [USGBC], we continue to offer specific products and 2015 Bundled Energy Solutions contracts was a of Products and Services procedures for buildings to maintain certification partnership with to reduce several key Southern a. R eport the reductions in the energy requirements through the Leadership in Energy & Environmental California Federal Buildings’ energy and operating of sold products and services achieved during the Design [LEED] Rating system. costs by nearly $50 million over the life of the reporting period, in joules or multiples. contract, along with a partnership with Florida Sum of Gross Square Footage (in million) Green Energy Works and BrandSmart USA to fund a b. Report the basis for calculating reductions LEED® Certified 229,112,000 $2 million retrofit with PACE financing. in energy consumption such as base year or Initial Phase 156,653,000 baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. EV Charging LEED Registered ® 67,445,000 c. Report standards, methodologies, and Grand Total 453,210,000 ABM continued to build on our leadership position assumptions used. Number of LEED® Certified Buildings Total 448 in installing and maintaining EV charging stations Total in Program 1,035 in 2015. We are one of the largest commercial EV ABM’s Bundled Energy Solutions program has infrastructure installers in the country and one reduced our clients’ energy use by 21.5%, saving Energy GreenCare® of the nation’s largest resellers and installation them $30+ million. partners for ChargePoint®, which has 70%+ share ABM’s energy business continues to provide of all networked charging stations. tremendous solutions for our clients through our energy performance contracting program, our Our 2015 growth in the EV market was substantial electric vehicle (EV) installation and maintenance as we ended the year with over 6,000 ports we’ve capabilities, and our enhanced expertise in the solar installed or maintain – that’s double from the year market in 2015. prior. Bundled Energy Solutions Program Parking GreenCare® Our energy performance contracting program ABM’s parking application for smart phones and packages energy retrofit services and costs into a mobile devices now allows drivers to quickly and turnkey offering with guaranteed energy savings easily make reservations – this is in addition to its that are then used to finance the project. Since previous features that have been helping drivers 2010, ABM has reduced our clients’ energy and find the airport, pinpoint available spaces, and park operating costs by over $30 million. Over the next their cars since 2013. 10 years, we expect to reduce their costs by over $100 million. Our financing solution, combined with our exceptional technical expertise, has kept ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 17 Sustainability in ABM Services Building Value through Our People Overall Voluntary Involuntary • Transplant solution programs that provide Shared Services 23.9% 17.4% 6.5% specialized networks and support to members Our people continue to be the driving force behind Facilities Services 30.2% 11.8% 18.3% requiring transplant services everything we do at ABM. We take tremendous AIR Serv Omni Serv 70.9% 27.6% 43.3% pride in our skilled and knowledgeable workforce. • Health and Wellness coaching programs such as Building & Energy 40.3% 28.3% 12% Spanning our wide array of service solutions and Solutions smoking cessation. Includes monetary incentive in a diverse set of markets, we firmly believe that Janitorial 59.4% 31.6% 27.8% to complete a Health Risk Assessment. our rich diversity of expertise and experience is Parking 37.4% 23.9% 13.5% • Complex case management services which assist unmatched anywhere. Security 65.3% 37% 28.3% and coordinate the care of members with serious Staff & Mgmt 26.4% 14.6% 11.8% G4-LA1 Total Number and Rates of New and complex medical issues. Service 59.5% 31.1% 28.4% Employee Hires and Employee Turnover • A 24 hour nurse line that assists with non-medical By Age Group, Gender and Region G4-LA2 Benefits emergencies Turnover Data as of 10-31-15 ABM Employee Benefits Here are some additional programs that we Annualized Turnover ABM offers a comprehensive benefits package to continue to employ: Overall Voluntary Involuntary Enterprise 63.2% 34.1% 29.0% meet the diverse needs of our full-time employees. • Healthy Weight program Corporate 11.9% 5.9% 5.9% The benefits offered include: medical, dental, vision, life and disability and a 401(k) plan. • Mynurseline-24 hour nurse line program Shared Services 20.9% 14.5% 6.4% Facilities Services 35.3% 14.2% 21.1% • Healthy Back program Note: Service Worker and union workers benefits AIR Serv Omni Serv 81.1% 49.5% 31.7% • Wellness coaching are provided consistent with their employment and/ Building & Energy 49.0% 30.5% 18.4% Solutions or client contract. • Healthy pregnancy program Janitorial 64.7% 33.6% 31.2% • Care for Diabetes Serious Disease Prevention Parking 41.1% 25.5% 15.7% • Health classes Staff & Mgmt 24.4% 12.8% 11.6% Through our health plan partners, we offer the Service 65.6% 35.5% 30.1% following for covered employees and their families: • Overcoming insomnia class • Care for your back Compared to 2014 fiscal year data: • Disease management programs which assist Turnover Data as of 10-31-14 members in the management of their chronic • Overcoming depression Annualized Turnover medical conditions such as Coronary Artery • Nourish/nutritional counseling Overall Voluntary Involuntary Disease, Diabetes and Congestive Heart Failure • Free will preparation if enrolled in life insurance Enterprise 57.5% 30.1% 27.4% Corporate 18.4% 9.9% 8.8% ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 18 Sustainability in ABM Services G4-LA6 Type of Injury and Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, and Absenteeism, and Total Number of Work-Related Fatalities, By Region and By Gender Job Other Job Other Days Away Grand Days Away Grand Transfer or Recordable Death Transfer or Recordable Death From Work Total From Work Total Restriction Cases Restriction Cases Division Overhead 12 14 15 41 Central Region 24 11 97 132 Female 3 2 4 9 Female 16 6 53 75 Male 9 12 11 32 Male 8 5 44 57 Onsite Midwest 114 118 140 372 ABM Healthcare Support Service 4 3 54 61 Female 77 73 79 229 Female 3 2 32 37 Male 37 45 61 143 Male 1 1 22 24 Onsite Northeast 153 57 196 406 ABM Government Services (AGS) 7 6 7 20 Female 64 30 89 183 Female 1 1 1 3 Male 89 27 107 223 Male 6 5 6 17 Onsite South Central 122 269 306 697 R/Benefits Summary 1 1 Female 51 139 161 351 Female 1 1 Male 71 130 145 346 Strategic Solutions Summary 2 2 Onsite West 208 178 537 923 Female 1 1 Female 114 116 301 531 Male 1 1 Male 94 62 236 392 Grand Total 727 745 1526 1 2999 Western Region 26 45 66 137 OSHA Rates 0.98 1.98 3.29 Female 9 25 35 69 Male 17 20 31 68 Eastern Region 47 44 93 184 Female 33 27 57 117 Male 14 17 36 67 ABM Bldg. & Energy Sol (ABES) 10 12 1 23 Male 10 12 1 23 ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 19 Sustainability in ABM Services G4-LA9 Average Hours of Training Per All ABM management level employees are eligible Diversity and Inclusion Stats* Year Per Employee By Gender, to participate in the goal setting process and attend Total % % Age Age Age and By Employee Category corporate sponsored training courses in addition to Male Female <30 30-50 >50 courses offered at the divisional level nationwide Board 9 66% 34% 100% Approximately ten hours of training are devoted emphasizing customer service, safety practices, MGT 7,212 61% 39% 23% 42% 35% to 25% of ABM leadership and management level business ethics, professional development courses, Non-Mgt 107,446 55% 45% 19% 52% 39% employees while 80% of ABM service level employees and contractual training agreements are also devote 25 hours on average to training annually. *as of Dec. 31, 2015 offered by ABM to its large client-base. Employees are provided awareness training monthly G4-LA13 R  atio of basic salary and G4-LA11 Percentage of Employees Receiving in addition to regulatory related training as pertained remuneration of women to men by Regular Performance and Career to their job. These include Bloodborne pathogens, employee category, by significant Development Reviews, By Gender Safe Lifting, Electrical Safety, Pushing/Pulling Safety, locations of operation. and By Employee Category Fire Safety, and Situational Safety Awareness. ABM is an Equal Employment Opportunity/ Performance Review Data G4-LA10 P  rograms for Skills Management Affirmative Action employer operating in compliance Division # of Performance Reviews and Lifelong Learning that Support on SP site as of 1/27/15 with Executive Order 11246, as amended, Title VII of the Continued Employability of Air Serv 181 the Civil Rights Act, as amended, and The Equal Pay Employees and Assist Them in Corporate 294 Act of 1963, as amended. Our Equal Employment Managing Career Endings Facility Services Group 158 Opportunity Policy, which states ABM’s zero Janitorial 1,387 tolerance policy toward discrimination, is signed a. R  eport on the type and scope of programs and supported by Chief Executive Officer Scott Parking 644 implemented and assistance provided to upgrade Salmirs and applies to “all employment practices, Security 143 employee skills. including recruitment, hiring, promotion, layoff or Grand Total 2,818 b. Report on the transition assistance programs termination, compensation and training programs.” G4-LA12 C  omposition of Governance Bodies We are committed to providing a workplace free provided to facilitate continued employability and and Breakdown of Employees of discrimination based on race, gender, religion, the management of career endings resulting from Per Employee Category age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity retirement or termination of employment. and status as a protected veteran, among other Employee Union* and Employment Status Breakdown* Various learning and development programs at characteristics. Employees Union Non-Union Full-time Part-time ABM include annual harassment prevention training, 114,658 57% 43% 72% 28% ABM is fully committed to equality. However, regional supervisor training, ethic train and wage and hour training circumstances prevent us from providing our report at this time. Specifically, ABM has just completed Phase I of a multi-phase reorganization ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 20 Sustainability in ABM Services that, given the size of our organization, is retaliation, wage and hour issues (such as not G4-SO1 P  ercentage of Operations with anticipated to take several years to complete. being paid properly for all hours worked, not being Implemented Local Community (We have approximately 120,000 employees and paid properly for overtime, paycheck problems, Engagement, Impact Assessment operations in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the etc.), accounting irregularities, corporate abuse and Development Programs District of Columbia, as well as in England and the and fraud, theft, safety concerns, workers’ Foremost, all ABM HR recruiting for site level Middle East.) Under our current structure, we have compensation fraud, or other suspected violations employees starts in the local communities in which more than 20 “employee categories” and at least of law or company policy, that they observe or that site is located. We want our people that work at 460 “significant locations of operation.” Much of encounter in the workplace. The Hotline is staffed client locations to be members of that community, if this is in flux due to the reorganization. by professional, trained Specialists 24 hours a day, 7 at all possible. days a week. Reports may be made in any language G4-HR3 Total number of incidents and callers may remain anonymous if they wish. All In 2015, we implemented local community of discrimination and completed reports to the Hotline will be assigned engagement through philanthropic in at least 18 corrective actions taken to an investigator. ABM conducts a prompt, cities across the United States. Professional behavior is expected and required objective, thorough and confidential investigation of the reported concern. The investigation process Click here to read more about ABM’s commitment of all ABM employees. The Company’s intent will reach reasonable conclusions based on the to our local communities. is to provide all employees with a workplace environment consistent with ABM’s core values of evidence collected. If ABM determines that conduct G4-SO2 Operations with Significant Actual Respect, Integrity, Collaboration, Innovation and violating its policies has occurred, it will take or Potential Negative Impacts Excellence. Accordingly, ABM does not tolerate prompt and appropriate remedial action which can on Local Communities workplace discrimination or harassment based on include termination of the individual who engaged age, ancestry, color, religious creed, request for / use in inappropriate conduct and/or other measures of family and medical care leave, disability (mental designed to prevent future discrimination or G4-SO3 T  otal Number and Percentage of or physical) including HIV and AIDS, marital status, harassment. In order to encourage employees utilize Operations Assessed for Risks medical, genetic information, military and veteran the Hotline and report concerns, ABM does not Related to Corruption and the status, national origin, race, sex, gender, gender publicly disclose information about complaints, the Significant Risks Identified identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, status of the investigations related thereto, or the specific remedial measures taken. and or any other status protected by law. To ensure that all employees have a confidential channel for G4-SO4 Communication and Training on Antireporting incidents of misconduct and unlawful Corruption Policies and Procedures business practices, ABM provides a Compliance Hotline (“Hotline”), a reporting system that allows ABM’s annual Code of Business Conduct and employees to report a variety of concerns, including Anti-Harassment Training are required for all but not limited to: harassment, discrimination, staff and management employees – our Code of ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 21 Sustainability in ABM Services Business Conduct was last updated in September 2015. The Code of Business Conduct training tool also has been modified and updated to include questions specifically concerning anti-bribery and anti-corruption compliance, political contributions, personal relationships, information systems usage and the overall ethical environment at ABM. G4-SO7 Total Number of Legal Actions for Anti-Competitive Behavior, AntiTrust and Monopoly Practices and Their Outcomes None. G4-PR2 T  otal Number of Incidents of NonCompliance With Regulations and Voluntary Codes Concerning the Health and Safety Impacts of Products and Services During Their Life Cycle, By Type of Outcomes For FY15, ABM received 10 OSHA Citations. ABM’s continued attention to safety and aggressive claim management has sustained our Experience Mod Rating (EMR) of .82. These efforts help reduce ABM’s OSHA Days Away From Work (DAFW) 38% from 2014; Days Away and Restricted Activity or Job Transfer (DART), 40%; and Total Rate Case (TRC), 13%. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 22 ABM in the Community ABM is committed to operating under a core set of fundamental values: • Respect • Integrity • Collaboration • Innovation • Excellence These values intertwine to provide a baseline mentality for how we operate, and nowhere is that more evident than in how we take responsibility for our activities which impact stakeholders and the environment. How We Give Back We believe that in order to be a good business leader, we must also be a good community leader. We support many different programs and endeavors that help fuel the social and economic vitality of various community sectors. Below are just some of the examples of how ABM employees have given back to their various communities over the course of 2015. Click here to read more about ABM’s commitment to our local communities. Click here to read more about ABM’s Awards and Recognitions. ABM Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 | September 2016 | 23
