Sustainability Report 2015 125 years creating stories with value About this Report (G4-18, G4-20, G4-21, G4-28, G4-30, G4-33) For FEMSA and the Business Units, 2015 was a year for reflecting on what we do and how we can do it better. The year was also very important, since it marked the 125th anniversary of when we first began to create stories with value. We appreciate the opportunity to share with you the way in which we contribute to create economic and social value, and that is why we have been publishing our Sustainability Report since 2005. Through this document, we are presenting the most relevant information concerning the Pillars of our Strategic Sustainability Framework: Our Ethics and Values, Our People, Our Planet, and Our Community. We have also included FEMSA Foundation’s projects and results. This Report refers to the period between January 1st and December 31st, 2015. The data contained is the result of a materiality analysis of the operations of FEMSA and the Business Units: Coca-Cola FEMSA, FEMSA Comercio, and FEMSA Strategic Businesses in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, and Venezuela. It does not include Heineken’s results since, although FEMSA has an important economic stake, there is no operational interference since 2010. Furthermore, we do not report results of any businesses that were acquired less than a year ago. We aligned our Report to the international guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 with comprehensive compliance and external assurance by Deloitte Mexico. On page 40 we include the GRI index, as a point of reference. We also align our performance to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which means this Report is also our Communication on Progress for 2015. Progress can be identified with the abbreviation GC throughout this document. All monetary amounts are expressed in MXN, with the conversion into US dollars based on the exchange rate as of mid-day December 31st, 2015, on the basis of $17.195 MXN per usd $1.00. Because you have been part of our history, we invite you to celebrate these first 125 years with us and continue to create stories with value. 2015 in numbers About Us About this Report Inside front cover $311,589 $33,735 $18,885 Message from the Executive Chairman of the Board million of MXN million of MXN million of MXN in in earnings in EBIT CAPEX of Directors and from the Chief Executive Officer of FEMSA 2 (usd $18,121 million) (usd $1,962 million) (usd $1,098 million) FEMSA profile 4 Operational Overview 5 Actions creating Value 6 125 years creating value 8 Strategy 12 63 261,464 FEMSA’s Sustainability Strategy 10 countries with operating direct operations plants jobs Our Ethics and Values 12 Our People 16 Our Planet 22 Our Community 28 FEMSA Foundation 34 1,208 $125,990 $1,152 million of MXN new OXXO stores million of MXN GRI Content Index 40 invested in programs in Mexico and in payment to suppliers for Our People Independent Assurance Report 56 Colombia (usd $7,327 million) (usd $67 million) Independent Assurance Report of Greenhouse Gas Emission Indicators 59 Intersectorial Alliances 62 Sustainability Recognitions 2015 63 19 $800 $369 Water Funds in Support for the United Nations Global Compact 63 million of MXN million of MXN invested Latin America and the Contact and Information 64 invested in programs in programs for Caribbean through the for Our Planet Our Community Latin American Acknowledgements Inside back cover (usd $46 million) (usd $21 million) Alliance of Water Funds Responsible printing Inside back cover To know more about our Sustainability programs and to access the online version of this report visit: www.sustainabilityreport.femsa.com Actions creating Value 1 Carlos Salazar Lomelín José Antonio Fernández Carbajal Message Chief Executive Officer of FEMSA Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of FEMSA from the Executive Chairman of the Board and from the Chief Executive Officer of FEMSA (G4-1, G4-24) Dear friends: 1) Our People, to promote the We are proud to share with you our professional and personal growth of Sustainability Report for 2015, a year in our employees based on three lines which we commemorated our 125th of action: Anniversary. On the road, together with • Culture and Values you, we have faced obstacles and fulfilled • Training and Development our mission to “Create economic and • Comprehensive Development social value through companies and institutions”. We employed talent-management initiatives in order to attract and develop the necessary Today we are a company that participates in human resources. We reviewed our FEMSA different sectors, is present in 12 countries, Leadership Model, ensuring that all our and is made up of more than 260,000 employees develop the capabilities the employees. We know that in order to face company requires today and in the future. challenges and ensure sustainable growth, we must continue to work with passion and Since we know that in a changing world there conviction, adopting a systemic vision. is a permanent need to learn and be current at all times, in 2015 more than 120,000 To accomplish this, we began an employees took 4,363 courses at the FEMSA evolutionary process of adopting the University. Furthermore, we developed the trend toward sustainability in every Logistics, Commercial, and Operations division in the company. Our goal is to Functional Schools at FEMSA Comercio in make sustainability part of all the order to strengthen employee training. business processes for the long term and to have it become a key variable in 2) Our Planet, to better understand our our culture. environmental impact and prioritize and plan mitigation measures at each In 2015, we focused on strengthening the Business Unit based on the lines of three Pillars that make up the FEMSA action: Strategic Sustainability Framework: • Water • Energy • Waste and Recycling 2 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Given the importance of water in our life, we We continued looking for solutions to We continued to have our suppliers read are constantly looking for innovative ways to global problems, with local programs and sign our Supplier Guiding minimize and mitigate our water footprint. In centered on sports, nutrition, education, art Principles, which set the conditions they 2015, Coca-Cola FEMSA reduced water and culture, local development, the must comply with in order to have a consumption per liter of beverage we environment, and entrepreneurship, among responsible balance in our supply chain. produce by 10%, as compared to 2010, and other things. we returned more than 100% of the amount Because we are aware that there is still much of water used to the communities and We invested, through the FEMSA to be done, we continue to work closely environment in our operations in Mexico Foundation, in programs that promote with our stakeholders—clients, and Brazil. learning and the implementation of best communities, organisms in civil society, practices in nutrition and supporting suppliers, shareholders, employees and the Furthermore, with the FEMSA Foundation scientific research to help improve health government—to develop solutions for the we continued working on the preservation and prevent food-related diseases. challenges we face and to promote best and sustainable use of water. Today the Latin practices with a focus on sustainability. American Water Funds Alliance operates 19 In art and culture, the FEMSA Collection funds that allocate resources to protecting acquired works of highly recognized artists the top surface of more than 3 million and published the second edition of the hectares, benefitting approximately 50 book Latin American. Modern and million potential water users in these regions. Contemporary Art, while the FEMSA Biennial invited artists to participate in its We also concentrated our efforts on 12th edition, which for the first time will be continuing to use renewable sources of made up of two pillars: a curatorial program electricity and on reducing energy and the competition. consumption. The three wind farms that supply our operations in Mexico will help us Celebrations for our 125th Anniversary meet our goal of satisfying 85% of our electric began with the inauguration of the new energy requirements in the country by 2020, Club de Fútbol Monterrey Stadium, a Biennial FEMSA announced its world-class legacy, self-funded and built 12th edition. in relation to consumption levels of 2010. using the highest ecological and This places FEMSA at the forefront in accessibility standards. The stadium is also Finally, we invite you to read this report, environmental sustainability. And, by part of the Grand Río La Silla Park hoping that it could help you to know more understanding the impact of our operations, rehabilitation project, which will offer ideal about the results of our actions during 2015. we are setting the foundation to strengthen facilities for family, recreational, and sports We also ask for your comments and the Environmental Strategy we will activities, as well as nature hikes. recommendations. We want to improve our implement over the next few years. performance and build, in collaboration with Furthermore, we developed the all of you, a much better sustainable future. 3) Our Community, to have initiatives Metodología de Atención a Riesgos y and programs in place that promote the Relacionamiento Comunitario lines of action of: (MARRCO), or the Methodology to Face • Healthy Lifestyles Community Risks and Engagement, to train José Antonio Carlos Salazar • Community Development our Work Centers on how to build Fernández Lomelín • Sustainable Sourcing relationships with the community that are Carbajal Chief Executive sustainable and generate value, all based on Executive Chairman Officer of FEMSA the trust and commitment of all parties. of the Board of Directors of FEMSA Today, the Latin American Alliance for Water Funds with the participation of FEMSA Foundation is operating 19 Water Funds. Actions creating Value 3 FEMSA is a Mexican company that was founded 125 years ago. We currently operate in 12 countries: FEMSA Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, and Venezuela. Through our Business Units, Coca-Cola FEMSA, FEMSA Comercio, and Profile FEMSA Strategic Businesses, we serve more than 357 million people, generating $311,589 million MXN (usd $18,121 million) in revenues and 261,464 direct jobs in 2015. Additionally, we hold a 20% share in Heineken, making us their second-largest shareholder. We operate 63 bottling plants and 345 (G4-4, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9, G4-17, G4-EC8) distribution centers. We offer more than 110 beverage brands and have 14,061 OXXO stores in Mexico and Colombia. It is the largest public bottler of Coca-Cola brand beverages in the world, and it distributes more than 3.4 billion unit cases a year. The company operates in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, the Philippines, and Venezuela, offering several brands, including Coca‑Cola, Coca-Cola Light, Coca-Cola Zero, Coca-Cola Life, Fanta, Fresca, Sprite, Sprite Zero, Powerade, Del Valle, Ciel, FUZE Tea, Fuze Tea Light, Delaware Punch, Powerade ION4, Vitaminwater, BURN, Santa Clara, Estrella Azul, and Blak. Coca-Cola FEMSA distributes its products in 2.7 million points of sale, serving more than 357 million consumers. In 2015, it generated 99,018 direct jobs and more than 1.9 million indirect jobs.1 It operates several small-format retail store chains. Through OXXO, OXXO Gas, Doña Tota, Bara, and the Yza and Moderna pharmacies, it serves more than 10.8 million customers daily. The OXXO chain includes 14,061 stores, of which 1,208 were opened in 2015. During 2015, FEMSA Comercio announced it had purchased Farmacon pharmacies, which operates more than 200 branches in the Mexican states of Sinaloa, Baja California, and Baja California Sur. The company also announced the acquisition of a majority share in Grupo Socofar, a Chilean group that operates more than 640 pharmacies and 150 beauty-product stores in Chile and 150 pharmacies in Colombia. In 2015, FEMSA Comercio generated 138,996 direct jobs and more than 694,000 indirect jobs.2 Comprised by FEMSA Logística, Imbera and PTM, it offers its services to Coca-Cola FEMSA and FEMSA Comercio, as well as to external clients. In 2015, these companies generated 19,283 direct jobs. FEMSA Logística is a multinational company that offers comprehensive value-generating logistics services focused mainly on innovation and safety. With presence in seven countries in Latin America: Mexico, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Colombia, Peru, and Brazil, the company employs more than 13,000 people. It is the world leader in the commercial refrigeration industry. Founded in 1941, the company designs, develops, and produces commercial refrigeration equipment. It exports its products to 53 countries, has three production facilities—one each in Mexico, Brazil, and Colombia—as well as sales headquarters and maintenance services in eight countries. Imbera is the only company in the Americas that both sells and services commercial refrigerators. It has been offering solutions and developing plastic-transformation projects tailored to fulfill customer needs since 1976. It offers its services to food and beverage, automobile, and retail industries, among others. PTM is one of the largest plastic-recycling plants in Mexico, with two production facilities—one in San Juan del Río, in the state of Querétaro, and the other in Monterrey, in the state of Nuevo León—that recover and recycle more than 16,000 tons of plastics annually. 1 It is estimated that for each direct job generated in the Coca-Cola System in Mexico, 19.23 indirect jobs are generated throughout the national economy. 2 According to data from the National Association of Supermarkets and Department Stores in Mexico, in specialty format stores for every direct job there are 5 indirect jobs. 4 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Mexico ● ● ●●● Operational Central America Venezuela ● Philippines ● Overview ●● Colombia ● ● ●● Business Units ● FEMSA Comercio Peru ● Coca-Cola FEMSA ● FEMSA Comercio and Coca-Cola FEMSA ● FEMSA Logística ● Imbera Brazil ● ●● ● PTM Chile ● Argentina ● Investment, Investment, Distribution Distribution Millions of millions in millions Employees 5,6 Plants Stores Centers Routes1 Brands 2 customers of MXN of USD Stores: 14,015 FEMSA Comercio — Pharmacies: 933 18 — — 10.8 4 Mexico 187,642 Gas stations: 307 $10,870 $632 ● ● ●●● Coca-Cola FEMSA 17 — 143 3,547 49 71.9 FEMSA Stores: 46 Comercio — — — — 10.8 4 Colombia Pharmacies: 150 8,769 $2,309 $135 ● ● ●● Coca-Cola FEMSA 7 — 25 1,230 17 46.7 Central America3 Coca-Cola 6,553 5 — 31 320 24 21.9 $807 $47 ●● FEMSA Venezuela Coca-Cola 7,500 4 — 33 507 13 31 $1,126 $65 ● FEMSA Argentina Coca-Cola 3,021 2 — 4 208 20 12.2 $1,054 $61 ● FEMSA Brazil Coca-Cola 21,765 9 — 38 1,291 49 72.1 $2,426 $141 ● ●● FEMSA Chile FEMSA 10,723 — Beauty stores: 150 — — — — $267 $16 ● Comercio Pharmacies: 640 Philippines Coca-Cola 15,306 19 — 53 1,792 14 101.8 — — ● FEMSA Note: Only includes information on our core businesses. 3. Includes Guatemala, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and Panama. 5. Includes third-party and centralized services headcount. 1. Includes external distributors. 4. Millions of customers per day based on the number of daily transactions. 6. Includes all personnel of businesses with operations in the country. 2. Includes brand extensions. Information for FEMSA Comercio in Mexico and Colombia. Corporate Structure Shareholder 28.1% The Coca-Cola Company FEMSA Coca-Cola FEMSA Strategic Heineken FEMSA Comercio Businesses 20% 47.9% 100% 24.0% 100% Public FEMSA Profile 5 Actions creating value (G4-9, G4-EC1, G4-LA1) To create economic and social value through business enterprises and institutions is our mission; and our vision Economic includes the following ambitious commitments: Performance • We satisfy the consumer of goods and services with excellence. • We double the value of our businesses every five years. • We are diversified in markets that privilege a high growth potential. • We are leaders in the markets were we operate. • We positively transform the communities where we participate. • We are the best place to work. 2015 2015 2014 Variation MXN USD MXN (%) Relevant Financial Results million million million Total consolidated revenue FEMSA1 $ 311,589 $ 18,121 $ 263,449 18.3 Total revenue Coca-Cola FEMSA $ 152,360 $ 8,861 $ 147,298 3.4 Total revenue FEMSA Comercio $ 151,401 $ 8,804 $ 109,624 38.1 Operating Income 2 $ 33,735 $ 1,962 $ 29,983 12.5 Consolidated net income $ 23,276 $ 1,354 $ 22,630 2.9 Controlling interest 3 $ 17,683 $ 1,029 $ 16,701 5.9 Non-controlling interest $ 5,593 $ 325 $ 5,929 -5.7 Assets $ 409,332 $ 23,805 $ 376,173 8.8 Debt $ 91,864 $ 5,343 $ 84,488 8.7 Capital expenditures $ 18,885 $ 1,098 $ 18,163 4.0 Book Value per share 4 $ 10.15 $ 0.59 $ 9.53 6.5 Net earnings per share 4 $ 0.99 $ 0.06 $ 0.93 5.9 Taxes paid in all countries 5 $ 54,632 $ 3,177 $ 48,317 13 Direct Economic Value Generated 6 $ 314,897 $ 18,313 $ 265,651 18.5 Economic Value Retained 7 $ 8,439 $ 490 $ 9,610 -12.1 1. The sum of total revenues by Business Unit differ from the consolidated revenue due to intercompany transactions that are eliminated in consolidation. 2. Key profit indicator of the company. 3. They represent income for the period that corresponds to the controller portion of the entity. 4. Data in Mexican pesos based on the number of outstanding shares: 17,891,131,350. 5. Total direct and indirect contributions generated by the company. 6. Direct economic value generated = net sales+ financial investments + Asset sales. 7. Economic Value Retained = direct economic value generated economic value distributed. For more information on our economic performance, please review our FEMSA Annual Report 2015 at: http://www.annualreport.femsa.com 6 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Social We are aware that with the capabilities and talent that we have, we can can do a lot as a company, which is why while we aim to maintain economic profitability, we also carry out actions to create value for the people, the Performance planet and the community: • Nurture and develop our employees. • Preserving the environment. • Contribute to the positive transformation of the communities we serve. Variation 2015 2014 (%) Investment in the $1,152.9 MXN million $1,082.3 MXN million professional and personal 6.5 (usd $67 Million) (usd $62.9 Million) growth of our employees Number of employees 261,464 216,740 20.6 Percentage of employees who are satisfied with their 77.4 1 — — job New hires 158,544 2 — — Investment in minimizing $800.2 MXN million $762.1 MXN million the environmental impact of 7.1 (usd $46.5 Million) (usd $44.3 Million) our operations Indirect energy 8,418,810 GJ 8,246,774 GJ 2.1 consumption 3 Percentage of recycled 82.7% 84.7% 2.4 materials Water efficiency (litters of water per litter of beverage 1.77 1.79 1.1 produced) Investment in community $369.8 MXN million $355 MXN million 2.1 development (usd $21.5 Million) (usd $20.6 Million) Number of people bankarized through services +3,000,000 — — provided by OXXO Percentage of local 98 97 1 suppliers 4 People participating in physical activation events 6,100,000 5,700,000 7 supported by Coca-Cola FEMSA 1 According to FEMSA’s Organizational Climate Diagnosis. 2 Includes new hires and turnover. 3 Includes electricity consumption from renewable and non-renewable sources. 4 Supplier originally from the country where the purchase is made. Actions creating Value 7 125 1890’s years creating Northern Mexico was lagging behind the central region as a result of the complex political and social environment, the lack of value opportunities, and its location, far away from the capital city. Accordingly, a group of entrepreneurs in the city of Monterrey, in the state of Nuevo León, identified the opportunity to create a company that could benefit from national and global growth. It was under these conditions that Cervecería Cuauhtémoc was founded, and it later became the driver behind social and economic progress in the region. 1930’s 1940’s 1950’s During a decade of stabilization and Nuevo León continued to grow, and it was Since Mexico was transitioning toward institutionalization in the country, and in projected that the education system would not modernization and people required the response to the prevailing need for a dialogue be able to provide enough university graduates mechanisms needed to form long-term wealth; between the public and private sectors, Luis with the required competencies to satisfy the we strengthened our housing policy and G. Sada, who was a member of the board at demands of this growth. Consequently, a group founded the Cuauhtémoc neighborhood. Cervecería Cuauhtémoc, promoted the of businessmen led by Don Eugenio Garza Between 1957 and 1972, we allocated 1,318 creation of the Confederación Patronal de la Sada, who ran Cervecería Cuauhtémoc, created new homes, thus contributing to the República Mexicana (COPARMEX), in order to the Tecnológico de Monterrey, an educational comprehensive well-being of our employees. promote entrepreneurial awareness and higher-learning institution with the mission to The total number of people employed by the social, economic, legal, and political reforms offer a full education to men and women, based company was close to 5,000. that would drive national growth and the on the belief that human growth is the key to reconciliation of interests between workers having a better country. and employers. 1990’s 2000’s During these years, which were marked by We consolidated the internationalization of the company by buying Panamerican Beverages, Inc., globalization and open markets, the company Panamco. The company then became the largest Coca-Cola bottler in Latin America, and second in adopted international standards, by being the world. Afterwards, we made more acquisitions, transforming FEMSA into a world-class listed on the New York Stock Exchange. With company. Moreover, due to the complexity of the global challenges, risks, availability of resources this major step, we strengthened our and the low quality of life in the communities where we have operations, we created the FEMSA transparency, accountability, and corporate Foundation, a social investment institution that contributes to education, science, and technology governance practices, gaining the trust of for the sustainable use of water and the well-being of society. global investors. It was during this decade that we partnered with The Coca-Cola Company and acquired the first foreign company. 8 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 1900’s 1910’s 1920’s Cervecería Cuauhtémoc consolidated its growth During the Mexican Revolution, our employees After World War I and the Mexican Revolution, as a business while simultaneously focusing on were subject to the same social instability and uncertain economic and social conditions offering technical training to its employees, by challenges the whole country was facing. Fully complicated trade between Mexico and the creating the Cuauhtémoc Polytechnic School, aware of the context in which it was operating, United States. Just before the Great offering facilities for house purchasing to and convinced that people are and have always Depression, access to U.S. raw materials employees as well as medical services for them been the driver behind growth Sociedad worsened, and the Cervecería took a and their families. These measures promoted Cuauhtémoc y Famosa (SCYF) was founded, an leadership role, facing the risks of the time by education and health care, improving quality of employee co-op in which, employees and the founding Fábricas Monterrey, S.A., to produce life at a time when these types of employee company started a savings fund and promoted carbonic gas, cardboard, and bottle caps. This benefits were not common. This aspect of our programs concerning nutrition, medical stimulated local growth and economic stability culture contributes to a sense of belonging and services, recreation, and financial services, to in the region. establishes a close relationship with the company. encourage a culture of work and savings that backs the stability of the family. 1960’s 1970’s 1980’s Cervecería Cuauhtémoc responded to this In order to adapt to the changes in the social The effects of the economic crisis were evident, decade of prosperity for Mexico by building the dynamic and the economic growth in Mexico, we and there was widespread concern with most modern brewery in Latin America, in the opened the first OXXO store, satisfying the needs ensuring the quality of life for our employees city of Toluca. This promoted growth in the State of our customers with a wide array of accessible and their families in the midst of instability, which of Mexico, generating jobs and saving energy in and practical products and services that were part is why under the slogan “Health is wealth” we its processes. In addition, because of the of the daily lives of Mexican families. invested in the modern Cuauhtémoc y Famosa support we granted to the Instituto Tecnológico Hospital, consolidating a new health services de Monterrey, the university was able to offer system that, aside from benefiting our postgraduate degrees, install its first computers, employees, also contributes to responsibility and build its first campus outside the city of and commitment toward work and family. Monterrey. This contributed to graduating students at a rate the country required. 2010’s Our presence in different sectors, countries, and cultures made it increasingly necessary to Finding opportunities in the identify the particular needs of each setting to provide the social, economic, and environmental challenges is how environmental conditions required for adequate we will create value for many years operation and business growth. Consequently, to come. we strengthened our mission to create economic and social value by connecting the concept of sustainability to our business and decision-making processes. 125 years creating value 9 FEMSA’s Sustainability Strategy (G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-26) We have been in continuous evolution since 1890, working Our People: Promoting the comprehensive development of our to fulfill our mission of generating economic and social employees. value. Our Planet: Minimizing the environmental impact of our operations. In the time since we were founded, 125 years ago, we have Our Community: Contributing to generating sustainable developed a diverse set of best practices for social and communities. environmental responsibility that we are very proud of. However, today we are operating in an interrelated and changing world that Each Pillar has three Action areas, and the 19 focus topics requires we go further and approach these issues with systemic identified in the materiality study branch out of them. We carry out discipline and a long-term view. Consequently, at FEMSA we concrete actions based on those issues. contribute by seeking for solutions in those areas where we have the knowledge and capabilities to generate relevant changes or, Over the past four years, we consulted with experts on more specifically, those areas that we regard as our material issues. sustainability and talked with employees at different FEMSA Business Units. Their feedback has contributed to our process of We are committed to developing the capabilities needed to continuous improvement. generate the economic, social, and environmental conditions required to operate today—and to grow in the future—in harmony We are aware of the fact that our neighborhoods and communities with our environment. That is how we at FEMSA understand face challenges that are increasingly more complex. Consequently, sustainability. we know we need to evolve and strengthen our decision-making processes based on criteria that simultaneously creates economic Our starting point and social value, as defined by our mission. The materiality analysis we carried out in 2012 was the foundation upon which we built the FEMSA Strategic Sustainability Strengthening the concept of sustainability in our Framework. With it, we are now able to effectively focus our Business Strategy efforts and resources on the most relevant matters. The core We acknowledge that the evolution of Sustainability is for it to be foundation is Our Ethics and Values. Its three Pillars have the part of the Business Strategy, our actions are moving in that following objectives: direction. In the context of our Strategic Sustainability Framework. Our focus is: In which we 19 focus topics generate a greater positive impact (+) Importance for stakeholders (–) Importance for FEMSA’s (+) business success 10 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 • To incorporate sustainability in key business processes by a clear understanding of the concept, the transfer of We are working to knowledge and the development of capabilities in increasingly integrate the our employees. concept of Sustainability into the • To reinforce the cultural feature of the simultaneous culture and business processes. creation of economic and social value as a key Carolina Alvear attribute in all our operations. Sustainability Director at FEMSA In order to accomplish this, we are working on the following aspects: • Restructuring the Sustainability Division. Our goal is to focus our efforts and widen the reach of our actions by: Furthermore, we are currently strengthening each of the Pillars that ›› Aligning corporate policies. make up the Strategic Sustainability Framework, in order for them ›› Designing and implementing management, to support this evolution. accountability, and risk-mitigation mechanisms. ›› Generating the knowledge needed to strengthen our • In Our People, we promote initiatives to manage talent in a Strategic Sustainability Framework. comprehensive manner in order to attract and develop the ›› Developing capabilities in the teams at the Business Units human resources needed to operate today, as well as to fulfill and their work centers. our long-term growth strategy. ›› Developing the policies and methodologies related to the • In Our Planet, we continued investing in acquiring clean business processes in order to make it easier to energy from wind farms. Furthermore, we strengthen the incorporate the concept of sustainability. Environmental Strategy to focus the efforts of each Business • Implementing a new Sustainability Information System that Unit on mitigating impacts based on their own context and on strengthens the way in which we manage relevant information our materiality issues. and decision making in terms of the environment and the • In Our Community, we developed the Methodology for communities at all our work centers. The system contributes to Adressing Risks and Relations with the Community (MARRCO), optimizing the way in which we monitor our performance, to teach employees at our work centers on how to build goals, and objectives. sustainable relationships with communities. • Updating materiality. In 2016, we will review and validate our materiality issues, because we are convinced that the best We know we still have much to do. Preparing for the future means practice is to do so every four years. we need to plan and act proactively today. Pillar Action area Focus topics Culture and values Culture and values Safety and health in the workplace Training and development Compensation Training and development Comprehensive development Comprehensive development Water Water management Use of energy Energy Environmental impact of transportation and logistics Packaging and recycling Waste and recycling Waste Healthy lifestyles Nutrition and physical activity Responsible marketing and communications Offering sustainable products/services Community development Local environmental impact Safety in the surroundings Social well-being in communities Supplier development Sustainable sourcing Environmental impact of suppliers Labor rights and working conditions of suppliers Sustainable Business Strategy 11 Our Ethics and Values (G4-56 / GC I, II, V and X) High ethical standards and best practices in corporate governance form the basis for generating value. We are passionate about seeking ways in which we can simultaneously create social and economic value. We have practiced this philosophy since we were founded, and this has helped shape our first 125 years of history, guiding us toward sustainability for the long term. Our Ethics and Values are the basis for accomplishing our mission. Achieving our strategic goals depends directly on our commitment to putting into practice the values we have cultivated for more than a century. Mission To create economic and social value through business enterprises and institutions. Vision Our focus on accomplishing this mission is complemented by our passion for achieving our vision, which includes the following elements: • We satisfy the needs of the consumers of our goods and services, with excellence. • We double the value of our businesses every 5 years. • We are diversified in markets that privilige high growth potential. • We are leaders in the markets where we operate. • We contribute to the positive transformation of the communities in where we participate. • We are the best place to work. 12 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 O ur daily actions and decisions are based To learn about the 17 principles of the Cuauhtémoc on Our Ethics and Values because Ideology, visit: http://www.femsa.com/en/ principles and rules are required to make meet-femsa/company-culture/cuauhtemoc-ideology sure we operate and grow in harmony with our surroundings. Correspondingly, they are the core foundation of the Strategic Sustainability Complying with the law is a basic principle required Framework. for improving quality of life, strengthening trust among citizens, and consolidating the rule of law. Consequently, we know that building a Culture of Lawfulness is essential to the future of the company and the At FEMSA we have communities where we operate. policies, codes and guidelines that govern our Because we acknowledge actions to ensure the trust of that the first step consists of our stakeholders. accepting the responsibility that Carlos Aldrete comes with being an example, General Counsel at FEMSA legality at FEMSA is part of our culture, and we work hard in order for our employees to practice it and to reject corruption. Being FEMSA means acting and making decisions Correspondingly, FEMSA collaborates in Let’s Do It ethically based on the values we have cultivated for Right, a multisector platform that started in Monterrey, over a century: Nuevo León, Mexico to enable and empower leaders and civil society organizations to promote and practice • Respect and comprehensive development of our a Culture of Lawfulness. employees • Integrity and austerity Between the time it was launched in 2013 and by • Passion for customer service the end of 2015, the program had more than 650 • Creation of social value promoters of the Culture of Lawfulness and has provided access to an online course to 7,000 people, Furthermore, we are very proud of having inherited a for a total of more than 28,000 persons trained. In series of personal principles and concepts from Don 2015, Let’s Do It Right became a Civil Association to Eugenio Garza Sada. His philosophy toward life is continue promoting social change that inspires values captured in an inspirational phrase: “The respect for such as honesty, cooperation, and transparency. human dignity is above any economic consideration”. His ideas are still alive in 17 principles that are still a key component of the FEMSA Culture and make up what we know as the Cuauhtémoc Ideology. The wisdom behind this ideology is still relevant today, and I am proud to belong we at FEMSA use it to guide our to the FEMSA family and to personal and professional lives. promote the practice of respect and comprehensive development, integrity and austerity, passion for service and the creation of social value. Maricela Carreón Executive of Operative Planning at FEMSA Our Ethics and Values 13 Corporate Governance (G4-34, G4-37, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40) The clarity, reliability, and transparency of our corporate 38.8% governance processes and policies are essential, because they provide us with a framework for of the proprietary operating and managing the company correctly and members are for creating value, thus contributing to our independent sustainability. Our corporate practices are subject to applicable legislation in all the countries where we operate, and we also comply with the corporate governance standards established by the Mexican and United States Stock Exchange Law including the SarbanesOxley Act for foreign companies. 1,930 1,792 Furthermore, our standards adhere to national and 1,511 international corporate governance and ethics Whistleblower principles, such as the Code for Best Corporate System Practices sponsored by the Mexican Business Number of Coordination Council, and we are signatories of the complaints at FEMSA and its United Nations Global Compact since 2005. 2013 2014 2015 Business Units During 2015 we reviewed our Code of Ethics and incorporated Audit relevant changes. Committee Corporate Board of Practices Directors Committee Board of Directors The FEMSA Board of Directors heads our corporate Planning governance system and also approves the designation and Finance and nomination of the company’s Chief Executive Committee Officer. José Antonio Fernández Carbajal is Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Carlos Salazar Lomelín serves as the company’s CEO. The Board has 18 proprietary members (14 men and 4 women) and 17 alternate members. In accordance with the independence criteria established by the Mexican Stock Exchange Law, 38.8% of the proprietary members are independent. 14 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 The Board meets every quarter and holds additional meetings when needed. Directors are elected by the General Shareholders’ Assembly, and they hold their We comply with the post for one year. They can be reelected upon approval corporate governance by the General Shareholders’ Assembly. standards established by the Mexican and United States Stock Exchange Law including For more information concerning our corporate governance practices, as well as the participation and voting rights of Sarbanes-Oxley Act for foreign our minority shareholders, visit: http://www.femsa.com/ companies. en/meet-femsa/corporate-governance/board-directors FEMSA Business Code of Ethics (G4-57) We know that having a valid Code of Ethics with which available in different languages. The way in which we comply reinforces trust, grants confidence, and reports are handled and how we promote ethical provides transparency among shareholders, compliance are communicated at all of FEMSA’s executives, employees, investors, clients, suppliers, Business Units through our onboarding program, on competitors, authorities, and communities concerning the Human Resources website, and by means of our actions. internal communications campaigns. Correspondingly, in 2015 we reviewed our Code of Ethics and included the following changes: Number of complaints at FEMSA and its Business Units at year-end 2015* • We included the importance of encouraging best 2015 2014 2013 practices in our suppliers in terms of human rights, Number of complaints 1,792 1,930 1,511 the environment, community, ethics, and values Closed 64.6% — — through our Supplier Guiding Principles. Currently in resolution 35.4% — — • We included a statement regarding the contribution to political campaigns. * Reports include situations relating to labor or sexual harassment, discrimination, • We included the importance of active citizenship. violations to human rights, stealing, corruption, and negative impacts on the community or the environment, among others. • We reinforced the process of assurance for our Board Members to sign our Letter of Commitment to comply with the Business Code of Ethics every year. For more information on our Whistleblowing System, visit: http://www.solistica.com/portal/page/ portal/misolistica/fl_denuncias_esa To find out more about the sorts of conduct and behavior expected in the company, as explained in our Code of Ethics visit: http://ir.femsa.com/mx/ code_ethics.cfm Whistleblower System (G4-58, G4-EN34, G4-LA16, G4-HR3, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR9, G4-HR12, G4-SO3, G4-SO5, G4-SO11, G4-PR8) To monitor any omissions in the FEMSA Business Code of Ethics or in our institutional policies, we offer a Whistleblower System that is operated by an external third party and is supervised by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Through this system we are able to detect possible risks and address violations in human rights issues, trade agreements, contract clauses, corruption, environment, privacy violation or any non-compliance to the standards of the organization. This system We offer a Whistleblower System that is operated includes a telephone number and a website that every by an external third party and is supervised by the employee and interest group has access to. It is Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Our Ethics and Values 15 Promoting the comprehensive development of our employees (G4-DMA, G4-10, G4-LA10, G4-LA12 / GC III) We know Our People are the driving force behind our growth. We have more than 261,000 employees in 12 countries, with a diversity that constantly challenges us to adapt to different and changing contexts. This is why we are building a work culture that helps us grow and transcend. Comprehensive talent management to promote sustainable growth. At FEMSA, we want to offer our employees the best place to work. Materiality of the Our People Pillar We work on three Action areas that guide our efforts toward creating an environment where our employees can grow both personally and professionally: • Culture and Values: We foster a culture of leadership that responds to the needs of our global growth. • Training and Development: We reflect our desire to be the best place to work by focusing on strengthening the ability of our employees to respond to current and future challenges, motivating them to reach their full potential as professionals and individuals. • Comprehensive Development: We promote a comprehensive development that produces well-being and quality of life for our employees and their families. 16 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 I t’s been 125 years since we were founded, Although our results were positive, we also learned and at FEMSA, we are still convinced that the that there is room for improvement in the way we development and quality of our employees’ lives manage our talent. Consequently, our Human are the key factors behind the company’s growth Resources divisions are working on motivating and and continued success through time. As a result, in empowering our employees, by strengthening our 2015 more than 35,000 employees at FEMSA and Comprehensive Talent Management model, so its Business Units participated in the Organizational that they are responsible for and are the main drivers Health Index survey applied by McKinsey, assessing behind their own growth as well as that of their team. nine elements: 1. Direction toward the future: a shared vision and clarity in the strategy. 2. Accountability: We aspire to develop the full transparency in management potential of all of those who and orientation towards wear the FEMSA jersey. results. Rodrigo Anzola 3. Coordination and control: Director of Human Resources at FEMSA formal authority, policies, hierarchical structure, and financial management. 4. External orientation: relationship with clients, competitors, suppliers, and communities. The Comprehensive Talent Management model 5. Leadership: transforming leaders that inspire a integrates processes and systems to attract, develop, shared vision. and retain the best talent, including: 6. Innovation and learning: managing knowledge, environment of collaboration, and • Talent planning. We analyze and define talent innovation. needs based on the company’s growth scenarios. 7. Capabilities: clarity in roles, performance • Managing succession. We identify key talent evaluation, and organizational skills models. and design succession frameworks. 8. Motivation: orientation toward goals, managing • Managing career paths. We plan the commitment, values, and opportunities for professional path our employees should follow. growth. • Acquiring talent. We recruit and select the best 9. Culture and organizational climate: vision, talent to align with our business strategy. mission, and beliefs system. • Managing performance. We evaluate results based on established objectives, through The One Page System (TOPS). • Training and development. We develop organizational skills and knowledge aligned with the FEMSA Talent is really abundant, culture, by managing Development the challenge is to generate Agendas. the environment for it to • Comprehensive recognition. develop and thrive. We design and grant value Alfredo Jacobo proposals for good performance. Director of Planning and Organizational Development at FEMSA Because we know we still have much to do, we will continue to improve the tools used in this model and will keep working on building an environment where The study concluded that our organizational health is our employees can be themselves and grow. good, particularly in terms of the level of commitment our employees have for the company. We discovered that they are clear about FEMSA’s goals and strategy, identify with and share the company’s values, and are satisfied with their jobs. Our People 17 In 2015, we invested $1,152.9 Culture and Values million MXN (usd $67 million) in Our People to execute projects and programs, We promote a culture of leadership that responds allocated as follows: to the growth and global competitiveness needs of the company. We are passionate about accomplishing our goals, but we never forget that the way in which we reach our mission of generating economic and social value is equally important. We operate businesses in 12 79.5% 20.5% countries facing particular challenges and needs, which is why one of our priorities is to develop and promote a culture of leadership that allows our employees to make the business philosophy their own and to fully live our values. Number of employees: Consequently, we promote the FEMSA Leadership 261,464 Model, the goal of which is to ensure that our employees at all levels of the company have the organizational skills that the Business Strategy, requires, thus, allowing us to grow and remain in time. Employees per country/region ● Argentina 1.2% ● Brazil 8.3% ● Central America 2.5% ● Chile 4.1% ● Colombia 3.3% ● Philippines 5.8% The FEMSA Leadership ● Mexico 71.8% ● Venezuela 2.9% Model is based on ● Others 0.1% nine competencies required by our Business Strategy. Employees per age group ● 18-34 62.8% ● 35-44 23.8% ● Over 45 13.4% These capabilities are behaviors that help guide the way in which FEMSA leaders act, reflecting values, criteria, attitudes, and management abilities that every employee needs. To reach excellence in our performance, we focus on the following nine leadership competencies: Employees per gender ● Women 32.7% 1. Impeccable execution ● Men 67.3% 2. Selling the vision 3. Talent development 4. Leadership for change 5. Cultural adaptability 6. Client focus Employees per type of contract 7. Developing strategic relationships 8. Innovation ● Employees 19.9% ● Unionized 53% 9. Strategic leadership ● External services 5.9% ● Sales Commissioner OXXO 21.2% 18 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 To learn more about Our People, please go to: www.femsa.com/en/actions-with-value The Learning Schools are the foundation of FEMSA University in two modalities: Transversal Schools, which refer to functions or divisions that are common to all Business Units, and the Functional Schools, designed and managed directly by each Business Unit for specific key processes. 121,428 84,077 79,438 We promote the development of our employees at all levels of the organization. FEMSA University Number of 2013 2014 2015 employees trained In 2015, we worked on designing our leadership programs. The goal is to ensure a sequence that helps develop these competencies in a proactive manner During 2015, we worked on the FEMSA Human and is aligned with the level of maturity of our Resources Transversal School. Concerning the employees in their current positions. We also began a Functional Schools, follow-up was given to the review process of the FEMSA Leadership Model Logistics School, while the Commercial and that we will continue during 2016 in order to validate Operations’ schools were developed for FEMSA the characteristics that define how our employees Comercio. In 2016, we will focus on continuing with continue to respond to the conditions and demands the work we began in 2015, and we will also design of the environment. the Commercial and Supply Chain Functional Schools for Coca-Cola FEMSA, as well as the Transversal Schools for Strategic Planning, Finance, and Training and Development Information Technology, among others. (G4-LA6) We strengthen the ability of our employees to respond to current and future challenges. 26.6 19.85 14.47 We know that in a changing world, there is a permanent need to learn and to be current at all times. To foster continuous employee development at all Training levels, we offer different learning options. (in person and online) Average training hours One of our main education initiatives is FEMSA 2013 2014 2015 per employee University, whose goal is to identify, develop, and maintain organizational capabilities within the company. Through online and in-person courses, it offers tools to strengthen leadership capabilities and technical knowledge. In 2015, more than 121,000 employees participated in 4,363 training courses. Our People 19 The Occupational Health and Safety Administration System (SASSO) identifies, evaluates, eliminates and controls risk factors at work and general diseases. In 2006, every Business Unit began operating the 4.7 Occupational Health and Safety Administration 4.16 1 System (SASSO for its initials in Spanish), in order to 3.94 2 ensure compliance with the safety guidelines and to promote a safe working environment. The system helps identify, evaluate, eliminate, and control workrelated risk factors and general diseases. In this system, we integrated international best practices for a Accident safety culture, including specific indicators for the 2014 2015 index industries in which we participate. We also comply with international standards, such as those established by the World Health Organization and those of the 60.92 2 Occupational Safety and Health Administration Agency (OSHA). 60.8 52.88 1 SASSO aims besides achieving regulatory compliance in countries where we operate, the constant reduction of accidents in all operations. General Through SASSO, in 2015 we were able to reduce our diseases 2014 2015 index accident rate by 11%, and the general diseases index by 13% compared to 2014. Note: Indexes are based on the number of incidents per 100 employees. These indexes are calculated based on the number of FEMSA direct employees reported to SASSO. Includes information on all countries. 1) Does not include acquisitions after 2014. 2) Includes acquisitions after 2014. Comprehensive Development We promote a comprehensive development that The comprehensive produces well-being and quality of life for our development of our employees is a commitment we made since employees and their families. our founding. At FEMSA, the comprehensive development of our employees is a commitment based on the principles and values we adopted since we were first founded. Besides our efforts to promote the professional growth 20 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 of our employees, we encourage an adequate balance between work and family. The latter makes us build on initiatives that contribute to: During 2015, we implemented the Financial • Fostering interaction among employees, their Education initiative in Mexico, families, and the company. which we will deploy to other • Promoting nutritional education, physical activity, countries during 2016. and stress management. • Encouraging a balance between work and personal time. • Training our employees to generate economic and social value in the communities in which we participate. We have different mechanisms that contribute to increasing the formal levels of education among our Through our FEMSA Social Development System, employees, and we have spaces, campaigns, and we serve seven dimensions for the comprehensive groups that encourage reading. development of our employees: values, family, social, health, economic, education, and work. Furthermore, Since we are aware that the engagement and active we have a robust Comprehensive Quality of Life participation of our employees into the communities System, which is fed monthly through different where they live is important, we recognize those who diagnoses, where FEMSA Organizational Climate is put FEMSA values into practice, and at the same time one of the main sources of information1. we encourage and promote social commitment through volunteer activities. The FEMSA Volunteer In 2015, for example, we identified the need to offer a Network is made up of employees, retirees, suppliers, personal finances course in order to motivate our family, and friends. It integrates FEMSA and the employees to work on building their own personal Business Units into a single structure of people acting assets. This gave origin to the Financial Education as a great volunteer team, in their spare time, in search initiative, which was first implemented in Mexico and of their development and welfare, as well as that of the will be deployed to other countries during 2016. community and the environment. 1 Each work center has to apply the survey at least every two years, and we alternate among all of them in order to generate information annually. During 2015, a total of 45,450 volunteers participated in 1,292 initiatives. Our People 21 Minimizing the environmental impact of our operations (G4-DMA, LT3 / GC VII, VIII and IX) Because we are aware of the impact our operations have on the environment, we promote a culture of preservation and adequate management of natural resources, and we invest in environmental efficiency technologies. In this way, we are able to foster the conditions needed to operate and grow in balance with the environment. We focus our efforts on minimizing our impact. We are convinced of the importance of incorporating environmental sustainability criteria in all our business processes. Materiality of the Our Planet Pillar We identify and understand our impact in order to determine what issues we need to focus on, as well to establish goals and implement initiatives in the following Action areas: • Water: We seek to optimize water consumption in order to reduce our water footprint. • Energy: We make energy sustainability a priority while at the same time contributing to reducing CO2e emissions in our operations. • Waste and Recycling: We are continually looking for ways in which to reduce the impact of the waste resulting from our products and services. 22 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 I nternational best practices classify environmental all must address, we continue to try to use new sources impacts under the following scopes: of renewable energy, and we are making an effort to incorporate energy sustainability in our operations. • Direct operations • Suppliers Consumption of energy from fossil fuels is a • Clients and consumers material issue for our logistics processes, since the transportation sector is the main source of GHG emissions in Mexico, contributing 22% of the domestic GHG emissions. The formula we are looking for At FEMSA Logística, GHG emissions is how to dedicate our talent and from the consumption of fossil knowledge to continue growing fuels by our Mexican operations without polluting and minimizing the represent 0.22% of the emissions impacts we have today. generated by the transportation Francisco Suárez Director of Corporate Affairs sector. We are constantly seeking of Coca-Cola FEMSA to improve our energy efficiency and therefore contribute to reduce our environmental footprint. We acknowledge that all production processes and At FEMSA, the work is based on those guidelines, the use and disposal of products at all our Business generating specific strategies focused on minimizing Units impact the generation of waste. Consequently, the environmental impact of our operations, our priority is to adequately dispose of the waste and prioritizing the issues to which each Business Unit can recycling materials that we use to make our products, make a greater contribution. while at the same time using the resources in the most efficient manner. Belonging to the beverage industry, water is an essential resource for Coca-Cola FEMSA. In Mexico, As part of the Environmental Profit and Loss our operations account for 0.2% of water consumption Analysis started in 2014, in 2015 we used the in the industry, a scenario which is similar in every information obtained as a basis for strengthening the country where we operate. This represents 99% of Environmental Strategy, which will update our FEMSA’s direct global consumption of water, and long-term vision, improve the actions and expand that’s why we continue to work on decreasing our relations beyond our operations. We will be working water consumption in all our processes. to calculate the environmental footprint of our customers and consumers. Energy generation is the second source of greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) in Mexico and the main one globally, which is why we take particular care to optimize its use. For FEMSA Comercio, energy is a material issue because it We join international efforts to mitigate climate change by concentrates 68% of FEMSA’s working to minimize the carbon consumption of electricity footprint of our processes and equivalent to 0.1% of the GHG incorporating clean energies. emissions in Mexico. Due to its Víctor Treviño Director of Energy at FEMSA relevance to our bussines and the mitigation of climate change that we Our Planet 23 In 2015, we invested $800.2 million MXN (usd $46.5 million) in Our Planet to execute projects and programs, allocated as follows (G4-EN31): 13.5% 77% 9.5% Currently we acquire wind energy from three wind parks in Mexico. Efficiency in production vs. use of water Water Coca-Cola FEMSA (G4-EN10, G4-EN27) 22 21.22 21.14 21.02 21.18 We optimize water consumption at our 21 20.72 operations by reducing our water footprint. 19.97 20 Billion liters Given the importance of water in our operations, we 19 continue innovating through the following programs 18 10 11 12 13 14 15 year and initiatives, which are all examples of good Data includes all Coca-Cola FEMSA operating facilities practices and on which we will continue to work as part Liters of water / liters of beverage of the strenghtening of our Environmental Strategy. 2.10 1.96 1.90 1.83 Water Efficiency 1.76 1.75 1.79 1.77 1.70 Coca-Cola FEMSA • Day after day, we work to incorporate actions and 1.50 10 11 12 13 14 15 year tools into our processes that will help us be more Data includes all Coca-Cola FEMSA operating facilities efficient, and so try to reduce our water consumption. Consequently, in 2015 we reduced our water consumption by 10% for each liter of beverage that we produce, in comparison to 2010. This improvement in efficiency translates into annual savings of more than 1.5 billion liters of In Coca-Cola FEMSA our goal for 2020 is to improve our water use efficiency index to 1.5 liters per liter of beverage produced. 24 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 water in our beverage-making processes, To learn more about Our Planet, please visit: equivalent to a minimum annual consumption of www.femsa.com/en/actions-with-value 285 thousand people1. • We seek to give back to nature the same amount of this country. Currently, three wind farms supply water we use to prepare our drinks through us with renewable energy, Bii Nee Stipa and replenishment and conservation of water sources. Stipa Naya, located in the state of Oaxaca, and In our operations in Mexico and Brazil, we returned Dominica II, inaugurated in 2015 in the state of more than 100% of water to communities and the San Luis Potosí, jointly they will supply more than environment. 215,000 MWh/year for 1,084 load points for our OXXO and Coca-Cola FEMSA operations in • In order to optimize the processes in our Mexico, when the latter functions to its full operations, water care extends to managing it after capacity. The 126 MW Ventika II wind farm, it has been used. We ensure the treatment of currently being built in the state of Nuevo León, wastewater in 100% of our manufacturing facilities. Mexico, will supply an additional 350,000 MWh/year starting in 2016. These actions FEMSA Comercio contribute to reaching our 2020 goal of • At the Distribution Centers, we implement supplying 85% of the electric power of our processes to increase operating performance and operations in Mexico with renewable sources, reduce water consumption. At year-end 2015, we considering the 2010 consumption baseline. installed a system that optimizes water consumption for washing baskets at 66% of our Efficiency in the Consumption of Electric Distribution Centers, resulting in savings of more Power than 60% in this process. FEMSA Comercio • Intelligent Automation and Energy Control Energy System. An energy efficiency initiative that uses (G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN19, G4-EN27 and LT4, LT5, LT8) sensors, alarms, and controls to continually regulate the operation of refrigeration equipment, We seek to achieve sustainable energy supply for air-conditioning, and lighting circuits. At year-end our operations. 2015, the system was operating in 11,106 OXXO stores in Mexico, 79% of total stores. We also In recognition that energy is a material issue for FEMSA apply this technology in 94% of our Distribution and its Business Units, in 2015 we focused on Centers and in 21% of the office and implementing initiatives and programs to promote the administration buildings. use of renewable energy, as well as to encourage greater efficiency in the consumption of electric power and mobile sources. 79% 78% 78% 11,106 Renewable Energy 76% 10,002 FEMSA 8,946 8,096 • Use of Renewable Sources of Energy. Since 82% of our consumption of electric power is OXXO stores concentrated in Mexico, since 2007 we have that operate with the established joint ventures and signed contracts Intelligent Automation to acquire and privilege the use of renewable and Energy Control 2012 2013 2014 2015 System sources of electric power for our operations in 1 The World Health Organization (WHO) points out that the minimum daily water consumption required by one person in order to survive is 15 liters. Source: List of Guidelines for Healthy Emergency Minimum Water Quality. Our Planet 25 of FEMSA’s Business Units to define, explore, and test clean technologies and alternative sources of energy that could be included in our fleet. Through the Comprehensive Energy Efficiency Program, we • Efficiency in the Use of Fuel. As a result of the monitor performance indicators optimization initiatives for fuel usage, in 2015 we to follow-up on, evaluate, and lowered by 11.1% the consumption of fuel per optimize our results. kilometer traveled in our international operations compared to 2014 . Fuel consumption per kilometer traveled • Comprehensive Energy Efficiency Program. FEMSA Logística Primary and Secondary Distribution Alongside our research and development projects, (does not include utility vehicles) we implement training programs and adopt efficiency norms and standards in order to identify and employ new technologies. Through this 0.51 0.51 0.56 program, we monitor performance indicators to follow-up on, evaluate, and optimize our results. 0.50 As a result of these initiatives, we were able to reduce 0.45 0.40 consumption by more than 14.5% as compared to 2009 in our FEMSA Comercio operations, avoiding 20,704 tons of CO2e emissions in 2015. 2012 2013 2014 2015 Imbera ● Domestic Operation Mexico • Since 2012 we have continued working the project ● International Operation (Brazil [includes Expresso Jundiaí], designed to replace the conventional electric Colombia, Panama, Nicaragua panels that control air extractors with and Costa Rica) programmable panels that would allow us to reduce the electric power produced by each piece of equipment. As of 2015, we were able to reduce • Clean Transportation Volunteer Program. We this indicator by 11%. obtained recognition for the fifth consecutive year for our fleet’s environmental performance, Efficiency in the Consumption of including the more efficient use of fuel, a reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions, and the Energy of Transportation and decrease in the costs related to operating our Logistics trucks. The program is sponsored by the FEMSA Logística Department of the Environment (SEMARNAT) and • Sustainable Mobility. It is a group coordinated by the Department of Communications and by FEMSA Logística that combines the efforts of all Transportation (SCT), in Mexico. During 2015 we lowered by 11.1% the consumption of fuel per kilometer traveled in our international operations compared to 2014. 26 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Waste and Recycling PTM (G4-EN27, G4-EN28) • In 2015 we used 75% recycled materials in our plastic products, which is equal to the plastic waste We optimize waste management and reduce the of more than 2.2 million people in Mexico annually. impact of those from our products and services. In order to manage the waste we generate in a comprehensive, efficient, and responsible manner, we have programs in place that strengthen our waste management and environmental culture. Coca-Cola FEMSA We actively participate • Zero-Waste Facility. This program establishes in initiatives that promote measures to improve environmental waste investments in new technologies management in our operations, including ways to and energy efficiency. adequately dispose of and reuse waste. In 2015, six Coca-Cola FEMSA plants adopted this program, for a total of 14 plants that are now employing it. • Through the recycling plant IMER, we recovered and recycled 17,676 tons of PET, material used in We coordinate our efforts with the government, our beverage containers. the private sector, and civil society. (G4-15) FEMSA Comercio At FEMSA, we actively participate in initiatives that • Program for the Sustainable Disposal of promote investments in new technologies and energy Equipment and Furniture. During 2015 more efficiency, the use of renewable energies, and the than 890 tons of waste were funneled through reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHG). Of companies specializing in dismantling equipment. particular importance is our participation in Sustainable Energy for All, sponsored by the General Assembly of • We use uniforms made with 50% recycled PET, the United Nations, Green Growth Action Alliance, which at the end of their useful life are turned into coordinated by the World Economic Forum, and Top rags and other cleaning materials by an external 10 Energy Saving Challenge, led by World Wildlife supplier. Fund (WWF) and The Coca-Cola Company. Furthermore, we continue to participate in frameworks • During 2015 we recycled 3,917 wooden pallets at that promote measuring Greenhouse Gas Emissions our central acquisitions warehouse where we and developing capabilities to identify opportunities implemented a program to repair them, being and risks regarding climate change, including the GHG able to reuse 200 pallets. Overall, the results of Mexico Program and the Carbon Disclosure Project in both initiatives are equivalent to avoiding cutting its Climate Change and Water versions. Additionally, in down more than 97 trees. the context of the COP21, we participate in international initiatives to support the agreements of Imbera the Climate Change Conference, particularly the Paris • Reducing Waste. In 2015, we were able to reduce Pledge For Action, We Mean Business, CDP our indicator for waste generated in the production Commitments, and the Lima-Paris Action Agenda. of our refrigerators by 13%, as compared to 2012. Our Planet 27 Contributing to creating sustainable communities (G4-DMA, G4-SO1) For 125 years, we have contributed with actions aimed at transforming our communities into better places in which to live and do business. Because we are aware that we still have much to learn, we continue to work on strengthening internal capabilities in order to build relationships with our communities based on dialogue and collaboration that offer both people and companies greater possibilities for success and permanence. We are ready to create more value near our communities. We know that responding to the challenges of our surroundings requires a strong will, specific capabilities, shared responsibility, and collaborative work. Materiality of the Our Community Pillar We have identified three Action areas where we focus our efforts, which are aimed at building healthy and resilient environments. • Healthy Lifestyles: We promote physical activity and balanced nutrition habits to foster the general well-being of our communities. • Community Development: We contribute to the economic, social, and environmental well-being of the communities neighboring our operations. • Sustainable Sourcing: We work towards improving the performance of our suppliers around issues of labor, social responsibility, and the environment. 28 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 D uring 2015, we developed MARRCO, which stands for Methodology for Addressing Risks and We have the opportunity to Relations with the Community. build trust and work together This initiative was a response with our neighbors to improve the to our belief that we need to environment we share. strengthen our capabilities in Daniela Villarreal Executive of Institutional Relations and order to be ready to face the Sustainability at FEMSA Logística challenges and opportunities present in our surroundings. The objective of this methodology is to have a more professionalized way to interact with communities and generate social intelligence that can 2 Analyze and plan be used in the business strategy and operational plans at • The risks and opportunities to design each work center. With MARRCO, we seek to build solid strategies, programs, and actions concerning and respectful relationships with our communities. In community engagement. order to accomplish this, we need to expand the abilities 3 Agree and act of our local teams and identify: • Listen to and build in collaboration with the community in order to establish commitments 1. The impact our operations can have on our and execute programs and actions that are communities. mutually beneficial. 2. The circumstances of the immediate communities 4 Evaluate and measure that could impact our operations. • Levels of impact and progress of the community 3. The existing opportunities for collaboration that management initiatives and actions. can improve the surroundings for a mutual benefit. 5 Learn and improve • Identify opportunities, best practices, and We have a good number of work centers in 12 exchange of knowledge. countries. This translates into equal number of opportunities to establish a dialogue with the 1 community in order to understand the specific characteristics of the surroundings as well to develop projects that, in collaboration with local agents, can n > Comm tio 5 2 Collabora generate value and help mitigate community risks. itm MARRCO is part of the effort that we, at FEMSA and ent > Di our Business Units, are carrying out to evolve toward a t> a sustainable business strategy. ue > Trus log 4 3 MARRCO was designed in a collaborative way, to include best practices that are already in place, as well as the characteristics we all have in common and those Deploying it throughout the company will be a great that are specific to each operation. challenge, since we need to develop capabilities in every team at every one of our work centers, which The tools that make up this methodology are grouped are located in complex and different geographies into five steps: and contexts. Throughout 2016, we will focus on concluding the pilot test and on starting to prepare 1 Identify and understand the first generation of MARRCO teams in all our • Needs, resources, and commitments of the Business Units. business with the community • The characteristics, needs, and priorities of the community. Our Community 29 In 2015, we invested $369.8 Healthy Lifestyles (FP4) million MXN (usd $21.5 million) in Our Community to execute projects and programs, Promoting an active lifestyle and an adequate allocated as follows: nutritional balance in our communities. A culture of health and wellness is an important factor that contributes directly to quality of life in communities. Encouraging physical and mental balance is part of our commitment to promoting the comprehensive wellbeing of our employees, clients, and consumers. This is 14.1% 85.9% why at FEMSA and its Business Units we carry out programs and initiatives to promote physical activity and healthy nutrition habits. Sports FEMSA FEMSA Comercio Pro Rounding-Up Program • Your Best Move. In collaboration with the state Ministries of Education of Nuevo León and Puebla in $100.8 Mexico as well as the Centers for Comprehensive Education through Sports we sponsored a methodology that promotes sports and physical MXN million activity, thus fostering health and good performance (usd $5.8 million) in the classroom. In 2015, we ended our participation in the program after having trained raised in 2015 more than 200 physical education teachers and over 70,000 basic education students annually during four school years, coaching them and offering the tools and capabilities needed to continue to 268 implement the program without us. 254 244 Coca-Cola FEMSA • Time to Move. Program in which we collaborate with The Coca-Cola Company and the Departments of Education in Argentina, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Supported Nicaragua, and Panama to promote physical activity 2013 2014 2015 institutions through training and by donating sports materials and equipment. 155,536 students were benefited in 2015. Encouraging physical and mental balance is part of our To learn more about Our Community, please visit: commitment to promoting the www.femsa.com/en/actions-with-value comprehensive wellbeing of our employees, clients, and consumers. 30 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 • Baseball and Soccer Caimaneras. Initiative taught by professional sports figures in Venezuela. In 2015, 12,939 children between the ages of 5 and 15 in the cities of Barcelona, Barquisimeto, Bolívar, Caracas, Maracaibo, and Valencia participated in this program. FEMSA Comercio • Promoting Sports. One line of action of the Good Neighbor program, through which we contribute to making communities healthier by advocating activities that encourage practicing a sport with neighbors, employees, and others in the community. In 2015, in collaboration with different civil society We promote recycling in schools through different programs. organizations, neighbor groups, and authorities, we organized 50 sports events between races, tournaments, physical activations such as dance, FEMSA Biennial will include two pillars: a Curatorial among others. Program and the Competition. Both the FEMSA Collection and the FEMSA Biennial Community Development launched their respective new websites during 2015 at: www.coleccionfemsa.com and www.bienalfemsa.com (G4-15 / GC VIII) We contribute to the economic, social, and • Coordinates for Life. Program focused on environmental well-being of the communities in strengthening the decision-making abilities of which we participate. elementary school students, and offering teachers and parents the resources needed to perform their We understand that global challenges require solutions role as educators. Implemented since 2011 in the that adjust to local needs. It is through this Action area Mexican states of Nuevo León, Puebla and Veracruz, that we have the opportunity to establish a dialogue with and in Argentina, Colombia, and the Philippines, it and get to know the communities where we operate— has been implemented in collaboration with and thus better promote initiatives and programs with organizations such as Save the Children, the local perspective. In order to better focus our efforts, we DEHYCO Group, Teach for the Philippines, the support initiatives related to education, art, culture, local Colombian National Police, the SAF Group, the development, the environment and entrepreneurship. Convivir Foundation, and local Departments of Education. In 2015, this program strengthened its Art, Culture and Education digital platform to widen the range of its impact. Furthermore, we trained academic teachers and FEMSA parents under the name Ambassador Instructors, so • FEMSA Collection. With more than 1,200 works of that the positive impact of the program will remain in art, this private art collection is known as one of the the schools even when the FEMSA trainers are not most important Latin American modern and physically accompanying them. At the end of the contemporary art collections in the world. In 2015, school year 2015, since its beginning in 2011, the the collection added 10 works of highly recognized program has benefited more than 55,660 children artists and published the second edition of the book and youth, more than 5,880 educators and more Latin American. Modern and Contemporary than 44,280 conference attendees. Art, which documents the works of one-hundred artists. Additionally, in order to bring art closer to To learn more about Coordinates for Life, visit: www.coordenadasparavivir.com communities, the collection had 7 exhibits in Mexico and the United States. Local Development • FEMSA Biennial. Recognized as the most important visual arts competition in the country, its FEMSA purpose is to recognize, strengthen, stimulate, and • Gran Río La Silla Park. The new stadium of the communicate artistic creations in Mexico. In late Club de Fútbol Monterrey inaugurated in the context 2015, the FEMSA Biennial invited artists to of our 125th anniversary, is part of a comprehensive participate in its twelfth edition. For the first time, project that implied the rehabilitation of the Gran Río Our Community 31 employees with the communities neighboring the stores in programs and activities of public spaces rehabilitation. In 2015, we transformed 212 spaces investing $15.4 million MXN (usd $900 thousand). Environment Coca-Cola FEMSA • I Recycle. Program implemented in Mexico, to The inauguration of the Club de Fútbol Monterrey Stadium was held in promote collection and recycling of PET. 1,050 August 2015. schools participated in 2015. FEMSA Comercio La Silla Park. This public and free space now offers • OXXO Award for Ecology. Initiative whose goal ideal facilities for family and recreational activities, is to promote respect for nature by rewarding sports and for contact with nature. environmental care activities. It is carried out in collaboration with the Department of Education in Coca-Cola FEMSA the states of Baja California, Chihuahua, Sonora • Time Bank. An initiative through which our and Nuevo León, in Mexico. More than 138,000 employees in Colombia are involved in rebuilding students from 915 schools participated in the 29th the social fabric by training demobilized people edition celebrated in 2015. from the armed conflict who need advice to start their own businesses. With this effort, we benefited Entrepreneurship 80 people throughout 2015. • Citizen’s Plaza. A program we implement in FEMSA Brazil through which we organize support and • Youth with Value. Initiative in partnership with advice conferences on health and environmental Ashoka Avancemos through which we offer young care. In 2015, we benefited 4,670 people. people training in entrepreneurship, accompaniment, job networks, and seed capital to FEMSA Comercio develop entrepreneurial and social business • Edison Polygon Trust. It operates in the projects. Between 2011 and 2015, the program neighborhoods near the FEMSA Comercio has benefited more than 1,700 young people who corporate offices in Monterrey, Mexico. Through have started more than 430 projects in the Mexican the trust, we help develop abilities in the local states of Michoacán, Nuevo León, and Veracruz, community, reforestation and make improvements establishing alliances with more than 20 to public infrastructure.During 2015 there were organizations with the participation of more than 7,835 participations from neighbors, 51 new 49 volunteers. The work we have carried out over scholarships were allocated reaching 94 currently the years makes us confident that we can transition active students and planted 194 trees. by empowering participants so they can continue • Rounding-up Program. Since 2002, we invite working on their own. This will allow us to allocate our clients in Mexico to share their generosity by resources and offer benefits to the community by rounding up their bill to the next peso, thus establishing and strengthening other ventures. supporting fund-raising campaigns for charities in • Alliances and Support to the Entrepreneurial every city in which we operate. In 2015, $100.8 Culture. Since 2014, we have worked in million MXN (usd $5.8 million) were raised to collaboration with Impact HUB Monterrey, an support 268 charities. entrepreneurial platform that promotes sustainable • Food Program. We collaborate with the Mexican development and innovation, and with Food Bank (BAMX) to distribute excess food that is entrepreneur club The Pool, which operates a in good condition, as well as non-controlled network of education and business relations. In medications. In 2015, $29 million MXN (usd $1.6 2015, we supported different programs and million) in products and articles, equivalent to organizations that promote entrepreneurial culture, benefiting 858 Mexican families monthly, were including the following: Cleantech Challenge distributed. Mexico, Enactus, F*ckup Nights, Entrepreneurship • Rehabilitating Public Spaces. Line of action of Festival, INCmty, and the Latin American Impact the Good Neighbor program, which partners our Investment Forum. 32 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainable Sourcing In order to institutionalize them at FEMSA and its (G4-12, G4-EC8, G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-HR1, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR10, G4-SO4, FP2 / Business Units, starting in 2015 the Supplier Guiding GC I, II, IV and VIII) Principles were incorporated into the Corporate Policies Manual and our Code of Ethics. The latter We contribute to improving the performance of demands that our suppliers at all of the FEMSA our suppliers around issues of labor, social operations sign a letter that confirms their knowledge responsibility, and the environment. of and compliance with these principles. During the year, we also worked on designing a guide to help our At FEMSA and its Business Units, we operate a network operations implement this initiative. of 49,253 suppliers of goods and services, which in 2015 translated into an economic spillover into the economy of $125,990 million MXN (usd $7,327 million), a figure that is equal to the GDP of the Mexican state of Zacatecas with a population of more than 1.4 million. We are fully aware that our supply chains include numerous sectors, industries, and geographies, and In 2015, we supported different that suppliers face different environmental and social programs and organizations that responsibilities. Consequently, we have worked on promote entrepreneurial culture. developing governance structures, processes, and tools to contribute to improving the performance of our suppliers around issues of labor, social responsibility, and the environment. Our Supplier Guiding Principles are a clear example of this, and their goal is to ensure that our suppliers To help its suppliers comply with the Guiding operate based on responsible policies, principles, and Principles, Coca-Cola FEMSA provided follow-up to business practices. the pilot program carried out with 30 companies, with whom it implemented a strategy that included five These principles, designed based on international sustainability-related issues: commitment, standards such as the OECD Guidelines for comprehension, grading, control, and compliance. In Multinational Enterprises and the United Nations 2015, Coca-Cola FEMSA began this process with 107 Global Compact, establish the minimum requirements suppliers, which were assessed in human rights, on four issues that each supplier must regulate in order environment and labor practices. As a result of this for us to be able to do business with them: evaluation operations with 12% of them were canceled for breaches on any of these subjects. Supplier Guiding Principles Child labor Additionally, at FEMSA and its Business Units, we are Compulsory labor and freedom of seeking to promote the inclusion of micro and small movement local suppliers in our value chain by training and Freedom of association and collective developing them, as well as by implementing Labor bargaining preferential commercial conditions that do not affect rights the competitive environment. We know that in order to Discrimination and harassment Work hours and compensation truly collaborate with our suppliers, we need to Health and safety in the workplace continue to learn and develop abilities in conjunction Reporting mechanisms with them. Environment Environmental impacts and compliance Community Community development Compliance with the law Fiscal integrity Anti-corruption Ethics and Money laundering values Fair competition Conflicts of interest Privacy and intellectual property Our Community 33 The FEMSA Foundation is the company’s social-investment instrument that focuses on two main issues: water and nutrition. It is run by its own Board of Directors, with a mission to create a long-term impact through high-level international partnerships that can leverage the benefits we bring to communities and increase the social return on our investments. A legacy of innovation in sustainability. We continue to evolve to build regional platforms through which we can continue to work together with our strategic partners to benefit communities in the sectors of water and nutrition. Vision It is a responsible and cutting-edge promoter of social development, and it is known for being a good partner that offers solutions and provides programs that are an international benchmark in its fields of action. Values • Innovation • Creativity • Quality • Productivity • Honesty • Coherence 34 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 O ne of the priorities of the FEMSA Foundation is to promote the active participation of our strategic partners, particularly in projects founded by us. The Direct Leverage Factor is an indicator that measures the resources contributed by other partners in support of our goals. In 2015, we guaranteed more than usd $21.61 million in partner investments, or an additional usd $3.42 for each dollar we invested this year. The results up to now have stemmed from a strategy that has evolved over time. The steps taken have been increasingly firm in order to build scope platforms and partnerships throughout the region. We see the steps taken so far as the beginning These first seven years are of a road we will continue on only the beginning, FEMSA in order to innovate and share Foundation will continue to the knowledge and lessons innovate and benefiting the sectors that have come from our work of water and nutrition. benefitting the water and Vidal Garza nutrition sectors, which are areas Director of Public Affairs and Strategic Relations of FEMSA* in which we specialize. Water Inter-American Development Bank, The Nature Conservancy, and the World Environment Facility, we The FEMSA Foundation focuses on helping face water promote the sustainable use of the basins that are the challenges in Latin America and the Philippines source of water for human consumption. The Alliance through initiatives that promote informed decisionhas a flexible work model that includes several tools to making, preservation, and the sustainability of the protect basins, including preservation initiatives, basins. This is accomplished by implementing building infrastructure, educational programs, and infrastructure and making positive changes in hygiene implementing different measures to make the local use habits. In this process, we always involve the of water resources more efficient. community and form joint ventures that help us multiply our impact. Through the Alliance, we provide seed capital to local Water Funds, a transparent mechanism for investing, preserving, and monitoring theses sources of water. The Alliance currently has 19 Water Funds in operation, which jointly allocate We want our projects have resources to protecting the top work plans replicable and layer of three million hectares and scalable in other regions and countries. directly or indirectly benefit approximately 50 million people. Mariano Montero Director of FEMSA Foundation Since it currently operates a proven work model that can be replicated and it promotes collaboration between the private sector, government, academia, and other organisms of civil society, we will Preservation of the basins continue to coordinate with and promote the work of the Latin American Water Funds Alliance by doubling The main program we promote is the Latin American the number of Water Funds in the region. Water Funds Alliance, with which we have been working since 2011. In collaboration with the *Director of FEMSA Foundation from 2008 to 2015. FEMSA Foundation 35 Water and sanitation The FEMSA Foundation, in collaboration with The 27 Coca-Cola Company Latin America and the Millennium Water Alliance, carries out the Water 21 Links program, a platform that generates sustainable 15 and long-term impacts in the Water, Sanitation and 18 Hygiene (WASH) sector in Latin America. Number of water The main challenge we face through the Water Links and sanitation program is how to contribute to improving the health projects supported in and quality of life of people who live in very low 2012 2013 2014 2015 the past four years. income communities in five countries in Latin America. To achieve this, we work with the population on addressing the particular needs of each location through three lines of action: building safe water infrastructure, adopting good hygiene habits, and developing local capabilities so that in the future the local people can maintain the installed systems. During 2015, these efforts provided clean water to more than 37,400 people, better sanitation to 531 people, and programs to promote good hygiene to more than 30,500 people. 19 17 I feel very happy because we will no longer have to go to the river to wash; we will have drinking water at home. Esthela López Soto Number of Water Benefited through Water Funds Funds through the Latin program, in Guatemala. American Alliance of 2014 2015 Water Funds. Water Links has become a trusted program, and many of the best organizations that are dedicated to wateraccess, sanitation, and hygiene rigorously evaluate their impact and share best practices. We are convinced that these steps are fundamental to building a better legacy of water access in Latin America. Starting in 2016, our efforts in water and sanitation will enter a second phase, focused on using social art to engender positive changes in habits. During this phase, we will use the knowledge we have accumulated during the past three years to multiply the program’s benefits and methodologies. All of this 36 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 During 2015, more than 37,400 people were benefited with safe water. has the goal of reaching more communities, benefiting Development Bank (CAF), published Water and Cities in more people, and strengthening the sustainability Latin America Center: Challenges for Sustainable mechanisms we’ve already installed, both for the Development, a book that examines the challenges that present and in the future. large Latin American cities face in water issues. In 2015, the Center also created his Theater to Make Decisions Water Center for Latin America that will support these specialists and the authorities with relevant information to consider multiple variables and the Caribbean when deciding issues related to water. Over the past seven years, the water sector in Latin America has undergone a process of decentralization that has required transferring water management Nutrition responsibilities from national governments and local governments and other stakeholders. This At the FEMSA Foundation, we promote the adoption transformation has presented the challenge of of healthy lifestyles and habits. Our focus is directly leveraging the capabilities that had already been related to infants, children, and the people who care developed. for them in order to identify nutritional deficits, prevent nutrition-related diseases, and ensure that healthy In November 2008, the FEMSA Foundation in eating habits are acquired from a young age. collaboration with the Inter-American Development Bank and the Instituto Tecnológico de Monterrey Workshops were held in Mexico, Guatemala, created the Water Center for Latin America and Nicaragua, Colombia, and Argentina, in collaboration the Caribbean, an organism in charge of developing with Save the Children and regional food banks, on capabilities and generating and sharing information on the efficient management and use of water resources in the region. It developed a platform for exchanging expertise between actors in the region, and it continues to establish research programs that respond to sector needs, as well as training professionals on We have been taught how water issues. to give a balanced diet to our children, so they can perform Through the Water for Latin America and the Caribbean, better in school. we have trained 450 water specialists to improve their Karla Miranda González ability to manage water resources in the region. In Benefited through Colors Campaign program. addition, the next to the Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Latin American FEMSA Foundation 37 tools, use mobile kitchens as a learning tool to help participants learn how to prepare nutritional meals. In order to determine in which communities to implement this initiative, we carry out a diagnosis that shows the main nutritional and social needs of the community. The methodology was developed by specialized nutritionists and psychologists and has a comprehensive focus centered on food and culture, with a social construction perspective. Since the program began, we have trained more than 6,000 mothers and transformed the lives of close to 20,000 people, motivating the adoption of healthy habits such as the frequent consumption of water and Through the Nutrition Education Program, more than 6,000 fruits and vegetables, basic hygiene, and the mothers have been trained, and transformed the lives of nearly importance of sitting down to eat with the whole family 20,000 people in Mexico. in order to strengthen relationships between parents and children. issues as diverse as eating fruits and vegetables, the importance of exercise and breast feeding, and Colors Campaign cooking methods. Understanding what constitutes healthy eating is key to Education for better improving school performance and development in children. In contrast, it is a lack of information that decisions on nutrition contributes to the development of unhealthy eating Malnutrition is the number one public health issue in habits and leads to diseases related to poor nutrition, Mexico and in the world. Particularly during infancy, such as chronic malnutrition, anemia, and obesity, as food plays an essential role because it provides the well as chronic nontransferable diseases such as energy and nutrients needed to support the demands diabetes and blood pressure. of growth and establish the conditions for optimal development. The Colors Campaign, sponsored in Nicaragua by the FEMSA Foundation, Coca-Cola FEMSA Nicaragua, The goal of the Nutritional Education Program in and the American Nicaraguan Foundation, focuses on Food Banks is to improve eating habits in vulnerable promoting consumption of food that is high in protein, families by offering them complementary information vitamins, and minerals, in order to directly contribute to to help improve their nutrition. The project currently achieving a better balance in the daily diet. operates in 10 food banks in Mexico, and in some of them it is complemented by the Eating as a Family and Since 2015, the Colors Campaign has operated in 17 Nutritional Self information programs, which in schools in eight municipalities in Nicaragua. So far the addition to other theoretical and practical education program has promoted healthy eating to more than 4,000 students, 800 parents, and 270 teachers, encouraging habits that help infants and children improve growth and develop an active, healthy life. The FEMSA Foundation invests in promoting the development of scientific evidence that contributes to strengthening health and preventing food-related diseases. 38 Colors Campaign focuses on promoting consumption of food that is high in protein, vitamins, and minerals, in order to directly contribute to achieving a better balance in the daily diet. Research in health and nutrition The FEMSA Foundation invests in promoting the In particular, the Center works on connecting development of scientific evidence that contributes to genomics with designing foods and food technologies strengthening health and preventing food-related that will contribute to avoiding the metabolic diseases. The main challenge the FEMSA Foundation syndrome that produces problems such as diabetes, faces is to take that scientific knowledge to the market high cholesterol levels, and cardiovascular in order to obtain tangible social benefits that can have complications. Additionally, the Center has focused its a positive impact on people’s lives. efforts on developing food supplements specifically to meet the particular needs of vulnerable groups among Through a study of nutrigenomics, the science that the Mexican population, including infants, pregnant explains the interaction between the human genome women, senior citizens, people with diabetes, and and nutrients, we are able to improve the quality of patients with autism. life. Since Mexico has one of the most diverse assortments of plants and food in the world, the Other projects we have promoted include research Foundation has worked with the Nutrigenomics on new technologies to detect diseases. For Center of the FEMSA Biotechnology Center, example, a prototype is currently being developed attempting to generate positive contributions through for a new device that can detect diabetes with research and development into new products that noninvasive saliva samples. improve human health. Research is carried out in collaboration with the Instituto Tecnológico de For more information about FEMSA Monterrey, Houston University, and the Superior Foundation’s projects please review: www.fundacionfemsa.org Council of Scientific Research in Spain. The Nutrigenomics Center works on connecting genomics with designing foods and food technologies that will contribute to avoiding the metabolic syndrome. 39 GRI Content Index (G4-32) GRI G4, Sector Supplement for Food Processing Companies and Sector Supplement for Transportation and Logistics Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior Message from the Executive Chairman of the Board and from the Chief Executive Officer of G4-1 decision-maker of the • • • • ✔ FEMSA, page 2 organization In 2015, we identified the risks which our Business Units are exposed to, with the following being the most relevant: Coca-Cola FEMSA • Changes in consumer preferences • Water scarcity and some inability to keep the existing concessions • Risk of a hike in the price of raw materials • Significant changes in regulatory or fiscal regimens • Competition could affect Coca-Cola FEMSA’s performance FEMSA Comercio • Impact on sales resulting from changes in the economic situation in Mexico • Significant changes in regulatory or fiscal regimens • Changes, failures, or interruptions in information technology systems • Increase in the price of electricity G4-2 Impacts, risks, and opportunities • • • • ✔ • Probability of not being able to maintain historic growth rates • Recent acquisitions could result in lower profit margins Risks related to the countries where we operate • Economic and political conditions • Depreciation of local currencies • Lack of security In order to manage these risks we have the following tools in place: • The Business Risks Integral Management System, a high-level tool to manage, evaluate, control, and monitor business-related risks. • Incident Management and Crisis Resolution Program (IMCR), a methodology through which we identify and analyze risks in order to mitigate and manage them in a timely matter, putting the health and safety of our employees, clients, and consumers above everything else. Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Fomento Económico Mexicano, S.A.B. de C.V. • • • • ✔ G4-4 Brands, products, and services FEMSA profile, page 4 • • • • ✔ G4-5 Organization’s headquarters Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico • • • • ✔ Countries in which organization G4-6 FEMSA profile, page 4 • • • • ✔ operates Nature of ownership and legal FEMSA profile, page 4 G4-7 • • • • ✔ form Fomento Económico Mexicano, S.A.B de C.V. G4-8 Markets served FEMSA profile, page 4 • • • • ✔ FEMSA profile, page 4 G4-9 Scale of the organization • • • • Actions with value, page 6 G4-10 Breakdown of workforce Our People, page 16 • • • • ✔ Percentage of employees Of the total number of employees, 53% are unionized, and of these 100% are covered by a G4-11 covered by collective bargaining • • • • ✔ collective contract, pact, or agreement. agreements KOF: Coca-Cola FEMSA • FC: FEMSA Comercio • FL: FEMSA Logística • I/PTM: Imbera and PTM 40 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM G4-12 Supply chain of the organization Sustainable Sourcing, page 33 • • • • ✔ We consolidated the expansion of FEMSA Comercio by acquiring the FarmaCon business, including more than 200 drugstores in Mexico. We also entered into the Chilean market, with the acquisition of 60% of Socofar, which currently operates more than 640 drugstores and 150 beauty shops in Chile under the Cruz Verde and Maicao brands, respectively. Significant changes during the G4-13 Socofar also operates more than 150 points-of-sale and dispensaries in Colombia under the • • • • ✔ reporting period brands Cruz Verde and Farmasanitas. In addition, FEMSA Logística reached an agreement to acquire the totality of Atlas Transportes y Logística, one of the most reputable companies in the logistics industry in Brazil, with a solid presence in that country. The Audit Committee monitors the process of identification of contingencies, lawsuits and G4-14 Precautionary Approach business risks including those related to the environment. The Corporate Practices Comittee • • • • ✔ is in charge of managing the risk of the company. Social, environmental, and We coordinate our efforts with the government, the private sector, and civil society, page 27 G4-15 economic programs and Community Development, page 31 • • • • ✔ initiatives. Support of the United Nations Global Compact, page 61 Associations of which the G4-16 Inter-sectoral alliances, page 62 • • • • ✔ organization is a member Material aspects and coverage G4-17 Operational structure FEMSA profile, page 4 • • • • ✔ Process for defining report G4-18 About this Report, Inside front cover • • • • ✔ content G4-19 Material aspects FEMSA’s Sustainability Strategy, page 10 • • • • ✔ Aspect boundary within the About this Report, Inside front cover G4-20 • • • • ✔ organization FEMSA’s Sustainability Strategy, page 10 Aspect boundary outside the About this Report, Inside front cover G4-21 • • • • ✔ organization FEMSA’s Sustainability Strategy, page 10 Effect that any restatements of G4-22 No significant changes • • • • ✔ information may have Significant changes in scope and G4-23 level of coverage of each aspect No significant changes • • • • ✔ with respect to materiality reports Stakeholders' engagement Message from the Executive Chairman of the Board and from the Chief Executive Officer of G4-24 Stakeholders • • • • ✔ FEMSA, page 2 At FEMSA, one of our priorities has always been to establish relationships based on G4-25 Selection of stakeholders dialogue with all those persons, organisms, and entities with which we relate to in our • • • • ✔ operations. FEMSA’s Sustainability Strategy, page 10 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement Additionally, this year we surveyed for the first time the beneficiaries of our corporate • • • • ✔ community programs in the Mexican states of Veracruz, Puebla, and Michoacán. Over the past year, we consulted with experts in sustainability and employees and we Topics raised by stakeholder listened to their opinions concerning the FEMSA Sustainability Strategy and materiality G4-27 • • • • ✔ engagement topics. Feedback on the need to evolve to managing sustainability from a systemic business perspective was particularly relevant. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period About this Report, Inside front cover • • • • ✔ GRI G4 Content Index 41 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM The last Sustainability Report based on the GRI G4 Guidelines was published in 2014. G4-29 Date of most recent report Additionally, for the past three years we have been publishing a half-year progress report • • • • ✔ that includes our January–June results for the year. G4-30 Reporting cycle About this Report, Inside front cover • • • • ✔ G4-31 Contact Contact information, page 64 • • • • ✔ Content index and “in G4-32 This table shows the GRI content index for our Report. • • • • ✔ accordance” option About this Report, Inside front cover G4-33 External Assurance The Independent Assurance Report for the GRI indicators and the Assurance Letter for • • • • ✔ greenhouse gas emissions are located on pages 56 and 59, respectively. Governance G4-34 Corporate governance Corporate Governance, page 14 • • • • ✔ FEMSA’s management is responsibility of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. Management functions, conduction and execution of the businesses of FEMSA and its subsidiaries are the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer, who abides the strategies, Process for delegating authority policies and guidelines approved by the Board of Directors. G4-35 from the highest governance • • • • ✔ The Board of Directors, in the performance of its monitoring activities, is assisted by body Committees, which analyze issues, give their opinions and offer recommendations regarding their areas of competence. Executive officers interact regularly with the Committees to discuss matters within its competence. The resolutions of the Board of Directors must be approved by a majority of votes of the Council members. Executive-level with responsibility Within the FEMSA managing team, the Director of Corporate Affairs is responsible for G4-36 for economic, environmental, ensuring that FEMSA and its Business Units have the processes and plans needed to • • • • ✔ and social topics contribute to the growth and permanence of the company in the long term. Consultation with the highest G4-37 See G4-43 • • • • ✔ governance body Corporate Governance, page 14 The Board of Directors includes the following Committees: • Audit Committee: reviews the accuracy and integrity of the financial information; nominates, hires, and supervises the external auditor of the company; and identifies and Composition of the highest monitors contingencies and legal procedures. G4-38 governance body and its • Planning and Finance Committee: analyzes investment and financing policies proposed • • • • ✔ committees by the CEO, the risk factors the company is exposed to, and its managing policies. • Corporate Practices Committee: prevents and reduces operational risks that could affect the value of the company; approves policies for using company assets and transactions with related parties; approves compensation packages for directors and key executives and evaluates their performance. Chair of the highest governance G4-39 Corporate Governance, page 14 • • • • ✔ body Nomination and selection G4-40 processes for the highest Corporate Governance, page 14 • • • • ✔ governance body In accordance with the Mexican Stock Market Law, the members and, when needed, the Secretary of the Board of Directors, who have a conflict of interest with a given matter, will G4-41 Managing conflicts of interest • • • • ✔ abstain from participating and being present in the deliberation and voting of such matter, without this having an effect on the quorum needed to establish the Board. 42 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Highest governance body’s role The Board of Directors has to approve the changes and updates to the purpose, values, and related to economic, G4-42 statements of the mission, strategies, policies, and goals related to the economic, • • • • ✔ environmental, and social environmental, and social impacts of the organization. impacts. Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance The Director of Corporate Affairs is responsible for informing the highest levels of the G4-43 body’s collective knowledge of organization on the challenges and opportunities pertaining to sustainability, while the CEO • • • • ✔ economic, environmental, and informs the Board of Directors. social topics. Our business practices are subject to applicable Mexican law and comply also with corporate governance standards established by the applicable provisions of the Ley del Evaluation of the highest Mercado de Valores de México and the securities laws of the United States of America to G4-44 • • • • ✔ governance body’s performance foreign issuers, including the Sarbanes Oxley Act. The shareholders’ meeting is the highest body, appoints or ratifies members the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors monitors the main risks to which FEMSA and its subsidiaries are exposed, identified based on the information submitted by the Committees, the CEO and the external auditor. Highest governance body’s role The Audit Committee monitors the process of identification of contingencies, lawsuits and in the identification and G4-45 business risks including environmental, and reviews the general guidelines set out in the • • • • ✔ management of impacts, risks, Corporate Policies for Risk Management and Internal Control issued by the CEO to be and opportunities approved by the Board of Directors. The Finance and Planning Committee has among its functions to identify risk financial factors to which the company is subject and evaluate policies for administration. Highest governance body’s role The Board of Directors monitors the main risks to which FEMSA and its subsidiaries are in reviewing the effectiveness of G4-46 exposed, identified based on the information submitted by the Committees, the CEO and • • • • ✔ the organization’s risk the external auditor. management processes Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of G4-47 The Corporate Affairs Division and the CEO carry out quarterly Business Reviews. • • • • ✔ economic, environmental, and social topics Highest committee or position G4-48 that approves the organization’s See G4-36 • • • • ✔ sustainability report Process for communicating G4-49 critical concerns to the highest The CEO communicates critical concerns to the Board of Directors. • • • • ✔ governance body Nature and number of concerns G4-50 that were communicated to the Confidential information • • • • highest governance body Economic remuneration for the FEMSA members of the Board complies with the standards Remuneration policies for the for companies that are similar to FEMSA. Remuneration is approved annually by the general G4-51 highest governance body and • • • • ✔ shareholders’ meeting and the information is made public in the Annual Reports (that senior executives information is reported to the Mexican and United States stock market authorities). GRI G4 Content Index 43 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Process for determining According to the Ley del Mercado de Valores de México, the overall compensation of the remuneration for the highest G4-52 CEO, as well as overall compensation policies of relevant directors, are approved by the • • • • ✔ governance body and senior Board of Directors, after hearing the opinion of the Committee of Corporate Practices. executives Stakeholders’ views regarding G4-53 Does not apply • • • • remuneration Ratio of the organization’s highest-paid individual to the G4-54 Confidential information • • • • median annual total compensation for all employees Ratio of percentage increase for the organization’s highest-paid individual to the median G4-55 Confidential information • • • • percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees Ethics and Integrity Organization’s values, principles, G4-56 Our Ethics and Values, page 12 • • • • ✔ standards, and norms Internal and external mechanisms G4-57 for seeking advice on ethical and Code of Ethics, page 15 • • • • ✔ lawful behavior Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about G4-58 Whistleblower System, page 15 • • • • ✔ unethical or unlawful behavior Economic Indicators Direct economic value generated G4-EC1 Actions with value, page 6 • • • • and distributed Risks • Changes in the availability of natural resources • Greater probability of extreme rain and drought Implications, risks, and • Increase in the average temperature G4-EC2 opportunities posed by climate • • • • ✔ • Variations in the behavior of meteorological phenomena change Consequences • Decrease or impact on production capacity • Increase in operating costs Employees receive the benefits established by law, and incentives based on their G4-EC3 Benefits plan • • • • ✔ performance. We receive from the Mexican government a financial stimulus equivalent to $702,736 MXN Financial assistance received G4-EC4 (usd $49,869) for promoting research and development and technological innovation • • • • ✔ from governments projects. Remuneration for the work done by our employees is based on competitive amounts for the G4-EC5 Standard entry level wage • • • • ✔ industries and locations where we participate, regardless of their type of work contract. We encourage hiring personnel from the local communities of our operations. In 2015, Senior management hired from G4-EC6 76.7% of senior management positions were held by people from the country where they • • • • ✔ the local community were performing their jobs. Investments in infrastructure In 2015, we invested 204,205,541 MXN (USD 11,376,353) in initiatives for the public G4-EC7 investments and public benefit • • • • ✔ well-being. services 44 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM FEMSA profile, page 4 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts • • • • ✔ Sustainable Sourcing, page 33 The percentage of the budget spent on local suppliers during 2015 was 98%. We define Percentage of the procurement G4-EC9 local suppliers as those who come from the same country where the purchase is being • • • • ✔ budget spent on local suppliers made. Environmental Indicators Packaging materials used (tons) ● PET 93.6% 2015 361,362 ● Plastic 5.9% ● ●Other 0.5% Materials used, by weight or 2014 312,259 G4-EN1 • • ✔ volume 2013 282,400 This graph does not show 100% of the materials used in our production processes. Reusable materials (tons) ● Virgin materials 81.8% 2015 359,520 ● Recycled materials 13.8% ● Biopolymer 4.4% G4-EN2 Recycled materials 2014 309,906 • • ✔ 2013 282,400 The percentages shown are of the reusable materials used as inputs in our production processes. Direct consumption1 of energy (stationary) (GJ) 2015 ● Argentina 5.7% 2015 2,694,817 ● Brazil 13.2% ● Colombia 10.7% ● Costa Rica 2.2% 2014 2,682,630 ● Philippines 17.8% ● Guatemala 1.2% ● Mexico 35.6% 2013 2,605,929 ● Nicaragua 1.1% ● Panama 1.5% 1 Includes stationary consumption ● Venezuela 11% of nonrenewable sources. G4-EN3 Internal energy consumption • • • • ✔ Indirect consumption1 2015 of energy (GJ) ● Argentina 1.7% ● Brazil 5.2% 2015 8,418,810 ● Colombia 2.4% ● Costa Rica 0.5% ● Philippines 4.9% 2014 8,246,774 ● Guatemala 0.3% ● Mexico 81.8% ● Nicaragua 0.4% 2013 7,814,845 ● Panama 0.4% ● Venezuela 2.4% 1 Includes consumption of electric power from indirect renewable and nonrenewable sources. G4-EN4 External energy consumption 563,073 GJ • ✔ GRI G4 Content Index 45 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Intensive direct and indirect consumption of energy (GJ/FEMSA total revenue in millions of MXN) ● Indirect1 30.28 31.3 ● Mobile direct2 27.02 ● Stationary direct3 1 Includes consumption of indirect 19.28 G4-EN5 Energy intensity renewable and nonrenewable sources. • • • • ✔ 17.34 2 Includes consumption of fuel by our own transportation units. 12.97 3 Includes stationary consumption of 10.18 10.1 8.65 nonrenewable sources. In 2014, we reported 26.49 GJ/ MMXN for this concept; however, an adjustment was made to the calculation and the correct data for 2014 is 19.28 GJ/MMXN. 2013 2014 2015 Reductions in energy G4-EN6 Energy, page 25 • • ✔ consumption Reductions in the energy G4-EN7 requirements of products and Energy, page 25 • ✔ services Percentage of water consumption by source Includes total water withdrawal by source G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 2015 2014 • • • ✔ ● Ground 64.8% ● Ground 64.1% ● Supply 32.4% ● Supply 33.3% ● Surface 2.7% ● Surface 2.6% Water sources affected by Through different programs operated by FEMSA Foundation we dedicate efforts to the G4-EN9 • • • • withdrawal protection, preservation, and recovery of watersheds in Latin America. G4-EN10 Recycled and reused water Water, page 24 • ✔ Natural spaces or high G4-EN11 Not material biodiversity areas G4-EN12 Impact on biodiversity Not material G4-EN13 Habitat protection Not material G4-EN14 Species and habitats affected Not material Direct Greenhouse Gas G4-EN15 Direct and Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions • • • • ✔ Emissions (Scope 1) CO2e tons (stationary + indirect) 2015 ● Argentina 1.8% Brazil 4.0% 2015 1,266,732 ● ● Colombia 1.7% ● Costa Rica 0.4% 2014 1,207,727 ● Philippines 7.0% ● Guatemala 0.4% Energy Indirect Greenhouse Gas G4-EN16 ● Mexico 81.7% • • • • ✔ Emissions (Scope 2) 2013 1,167,968 ● Nicaragua 0.5% ● Panama 0.4% ● Venezuela 2.1% Note: 1,397,389 ton CO2e were reported in 2013 for this concept; however, there was an adjustment and the correct data for 2013 is 1,167,698 ton CO2e 46 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Tons of CO2 equivalent from employee flights 2015 8,857 Other Indirect Greenhouse Gas G4-EN17 • • • • ✔ Emissions (Scope 3) 2014 8,299 2013 8,224 This number does not represent the 100% of our Scope 3 emissions. 447 routes were not included because of missing data. Intensive total emissions Scope 1 (stationary) + Scope 2 Tons of CO2e/total income of FEMSA in MXN million ● S1 stationary1 ● S1 non-stationary2 3.31 ● S23 3.80 3.71 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 1 Includes the stationary consumption G4-EN18 of non-renewable sources. • • • • ✔ Intensity 2 Includes the fuel consumption of own units. 1.38 3 Includes fuel consumption of renewable 0.92 1.28 and non-renewable sources. In 2014, 1.85 ton CO2e/MMXN were reported for this concept; however, an 0.81 0.78 0.75 adjustment was made and the correct data for 2014 is 1.3 ton Co2e/MMXN. 2013 2014 2015 Reduction of Greenhouse Gas G4-EN19 Energy, page 25 • • ✔ Emissions Emissions of Ozone –Depleting G4-EN20 We do not have significant emissions from Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS). • ✔ Substances (ODS) NOX, SOX, and other significant G4-EN21 air emissions We do not have significant emissions from NOx and SOx. • ✔ Water discharge ● Wastewater treatment facilities owned by the G4-EN22 Water discharge company 84% • ✔ ● Wastewater treatment facilities of municipal property 16% Waste management (Tons) 2015 ● Glass 32% 2015 202,479 ● Hazardous 22% ● Plastic 17% G4-EN23 Waste management ● Paper / Cardboard 12% • • • • ✔ 2014 212,346 ● Wood 9% ● Scrap and metals 2% ● Others 6% 2013 210,795 During 2015, we recycled 83% of the 202,479 tons of generated waste. G4-EN24 Spills During 2015 there were no hazardous substances spills in our operations. • • • • ✔ All residues generated are channeled to specialized companies to ensure appropiate G4-EN25 Hazardous waste transported • • • • ✔ handling and disposal. G4-EN26 Water resources Any body of water has been affected by discharges from our operations. • • • • ✔ GRI G4 Content Index 47 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Water, page 24 Mitigation of environmental G4-EN27 Energy, page 25 • • • ✔ impacts Waste and recycling, page 27 G4-EN28 Recovery of packaging materials Waste and recycling, page 27 • ✔ Fines for environmental There were no significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions received due to noncompliance of G4-EN29 • • • • ✔ regulation noncompliance the legislation and environmental regulations. Direct energy consumption in Mexico (mobile)1 (GJ) 2015 Utility 12.1% 2015 5,403,429 vehicles Environmental impacts of Lift trucks 2.4% G4-EN30 transporting product and other 2014 5,080,423 Secondary 38.5% • • • • ✔ distribution goods, and people Primary 47% 2013 3,347,429 distribution 1 In 2014, 6,979,448 GJ of energy were reported for this concept; however, there was an adjustment and the correct data for 2014 is 5,080,423 GJ. G4-EN31 Environmental investments Investment in Our Planet, page 24 • • • • ✔ Percentage of new suppliers G4-EN32 examined in regards to Sustainable Sourcing, page 33 • • • • ✔ environmental criteria Significant, real and potential With the support of Trucost, during 2013 we quantify the environmental impacts G4-EN33 environmental impacts in supply corresponding to our direct operations and supply chain, including the supply of raw • • • • ✔ chain materials. Number of environmental G4-EN34 Whistleblower System, page 15 • • • • ✔ complaints Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Actions with value, page 6 New hires by gender and age range 76,191 50,736 G4-LA1 Employee hires and turnover • • • • ✔ 11,536 8,619 6,393 45+ 18-34 35-44 5,069 18-34 35-44 45+ Men Women 1. Includes new hires and replacements. 2. Does not include information from Imbera-PTM 48 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM These are some of the benefits granted to our employees: • Christmas bonus • Complementary annual compensation • Savings fund • Scholarships G4-LA2 Employee benefits • • • • ✔ Further, through the Sociedad Cuauhtémoc y Famosa (SCyF) in Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico, we promote comprehensive development programs, medical attention, recreational programs, and financial services for our employees to encourage a culture of work and savings to support family stability. Return to work and retention after G4-LA3 The rate of return was 88.7% for men and 68.7% for women. • • • • ✔ parental leave Prior notice of significant We maintain scheduled and constructive communications with all Unions representing our operational changes and G4-LA4 workers. Furthermore, at all our operations we respect and act based on timetables and • • • • ✔ specification in collective procedures established in the labor legislation of the countries where we are present. bargaining agreements We have committees in each Business Unit that approach and monitor Safety and Health G4-LA5 Health and Safety committees issues in the organization. Furthermore, we have established mechanisms to train • • • • ✔ employees on those topics. G4-LA6 Absenteeism and lost days Training and Development, page 19 • • • • ✔ We have programs in place that help detect possible unsafe conditions in our operations in G4-LA7 Incidence or high risk of diseases order to minimize risk. In case of an accident, we analyze it in order to determine the causes • • • • ✔ and find the way to ensure that they will not happen again. Health and safety topics covered G4-LA8 Health and safety aspects are covered in the collective bargaining agreements with Unions. • • • • ✔ in formal agreements with Unions Average hours of training per type of employee 79.5 78.7 G4-LA9 Hours of training • • • • ✔ Store Employees Employees Unionized Outsourced Managers Average Directors Interns 26.7 24.8 8.7 1.9 4.9 26.6 Programs for skills management G4-LA10 Our People, page 16 • • • • ✔ and lifelong learning Career Performance and In 2015, 23,443 of our employees received an evaluation on their performance and career G4-LA11 • • • • ✔ Development evolution. Structure of the Board of Directors, page 14 Our People, page 16 G4-LA12 Diversity • • • • ✔ Additionally, in 2015 our Workplace Inclusion Program included 1,370 people with disabilities and 1,550 senior citizens at FEMSA and its Business Units. We do not make any distinctions for gender, age, nationality, or any other characteristic, and G4-LA13 Equality in remuneration economic remuneration is established based on the individual contributions, performance, • • • • ✔ and capabilities of each employee. Percentage of new suppliers that G4-LA14 were screened using labor Sustainable Sourcing, page 33 • • • • ✔ practices criteria GRI G4 Content Index 49 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Significant actual and potential We did not have any significant negative impacts, actual or potential, for labor practices in G4-LA15 negative impacts for labor • • • • the supply chain that could put our operation at risk. practices in the supply chain Number of grievances about G4-LA16 Whistleblower System, page 15 • • • • ✔ labor practices Social Human Rights Investment agreements that G4-HR1 Sustainable Sourcing, page 33 • • • • ✔ include human rights clauses Number of hours of training on human rights Degree of Contribution Hours Directors 46 Managers 1,970 Employees 19,984 G4-HR2 Training in Human Rights Unionized 18,505 • • • • ✔ Interns 35 Outsourced 343 Store/Station/Drugstore/Restaurant Leaders 38 Store/Station/Drugstore/Restaurant Employees 1,535 Total 42,457 G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination Whistleblower System, page 15 • • • • ✔ In accordance with the legislation of the places where we operate, our employees and suppliers have the right to practice their freedom of association and collective bargaining. At G4-HR4 Freedom of association • • • • ✔ FEMSA we respect these rights, as well as labor contracts, and we work in collaboration with the Unions that represent our employees in a respectful, transparent, and timely manner. Measures taken against child Whistleblower System, page 15 G4-HR5 • • • • ✔ labor Sustainable Sourcing, page 33 Measures taken against forced Whistleblower System, page 15 G4-HR6 • • • • ✔ labor Sustainable Sourcing, page 33 Security personnel who have G4-HR7 100% of the security guards hired by the company in Mexico received Human Rights training. • • • • ✔ received formal training We did not detect or receive any reports on violations of indigenous rights in any of our G4-HR8 Indigenous rights • • • • ✔ operations. G4-HR9 Reviews of Human Rights centers Whistleblower System, page 15 • • • • ✔ Suppliers screened using human G4-HR10 Sustainable Sourcing, page 33 • • • • ✔ rights criteria Significant actual and potential We did not detect any significant actual or potential negative human rights impacts in the G4-HR11 negative human rights impacts in • • • • supply chain the supply chain Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, G4-HR12 Whistleblower System, page 15 • • • • ✔ and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 50 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Social Society G4-SO1 Impact on communities Our Community, page 28 • • ✔ Operations with significant We have not identified any significant real or potencial negative impacts in the communities G4-SO2 potential or actual negative • • • • where we operate. impacts on local communities Centers assessed for risks related G4-SO3 to corruption and significant risks Whistleblower System, page 15 • • • • ✔ detected Training hours in ethics and anti-corruption Degree of Contribution Hours Directors 0 Managers 201 Employees 4,676 Unionized 8,323 Interns 76 Outsourced 53 Store/Station/Drugstore/Restaurant Leaders 0 Store/Station/Drugstore/Restaurant/Distribution Center 1,545 Employees Percentage of employees trained Total 14,873 G4-SO4 in organization’s anti-corruption Training hours Culture of Legality • • • • ✔ policies and procedures Degree of Contribution Hours Directors 2 Managers 118 Employees 3,674 Unionized 1,856. Interns 26 Outsourced 198 Store/Station/Drugstore/Restaurant Leaders 0 Store/Station/Drugstore/Restaurant/Distribution Center 0 Employees Total 5,875 Actions taken in response to G4-SO5 Whistleblower System, page 15 • • • • ✔ incidents of corruption Contributions to political parties We strictly comply with local legislation concerning the participation of companies on those G4-SO6 • • • • ✔ or related institutions issues. Free competition and antiG4-SO7 We did not receive any claims regarding anti-trust, monopoly, or anticompetitive behaviors. • • • • ✔ monopoly Sanctions and fines for We did not receive any significant fines or nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with G4-SO8 noncompliance with laws or • • • • ✔ laws and regulations in the countries where we operate. regulations Percentage of new suppliers G4-SO9 screened using criteria for Sustainable Sourcing, page 33 • • • • ✔ impacts on society Significant actual and potential We did not detect any significant actual or potential negative human rights impacts on G4-SO10 negative impact on society in the • • • • society in the supply chain. supply chain Number of grievances about We did not receive any grievances about impacts on society through formal grievance G4-SO11 • • • • ✔ impacts on society mechanisms. GRI G4 Content Index 51 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Social Product Responsibility Assessment of the life cycle At Coca-Cola FEMSA, 40% of our brand portfolio is low-calorie beverages and 26% of our G4-PR1 stages of products regarding brands have vitamins, fiber, minerals, and nutritional supplements. For more information, • ✔ customers’ health and safety view Coca-Cola FEMSA’s 2015 Sustainability Report. Noncompliance with voluntary We did not register any incidents regarding noncompliance with the norms or codes on the G4-PR2 codes concerning health and • • • • ✔ impacts of our products and services on health and safety during the life cycles. safety Because we want our consumers to be well-informed, we make the necessary data on the content of our beverages available to them. This helps them choose the best beverage G4-PR3 Product information and labeling • ✔ option for their lifestyle, based on a 2,000 calorie daily intake according to the Daily Food Guidelines. For more information, view Coca-Cola FEMSA’s 2015 Sustainability Report. In 2015, we did not register any significant sanctions in any of our Business Units concerning Noncompliance with regulations noncompliance with government regulations on the impacts of the health and safety of our G4-PR4 and voluntary codes concerning • • • ✔ clients, regulations concerning information and labeling of our products, as well as labeling voluntary codes on advertising. We make sure to maintain two-way communication with our clients and consumers. Consequently, we make available to them our customer service 1-800 number, which is G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction practices printed on our packaging and included in our website; we also carry out surveys and market • ✔ research to better understand their concerns and needs. For more information, view Coca-Cola FEMSA’s and FEMSA Comercio’s 2015 Sustainability Reports. Sale of banned or disputed G4-PR6 We do not sell banned or disputed products. • • • products Incidents concerning marketing, We did not register any cases of noncompliance with the norms and codes regarding our G4-PR7 advertising, promotion, and • • • ✔ marketing communications. sponsorships Complaints received concerning G4-PR8 Whistleblower System, page 15 • • • • ✔ breaches of customer privacy Fines for noncompliance with the We did not receive any significant fines for noncompliance with the laws and regulations G4-PR9 norms concerning the provision • • • • ✔ regarding the provision and use of our products and services. and use of products and services Food Processing Sector Supplement Sourcing Percentage of volume from FP1 suppliers compliant with 100% of the volume purchased from suppliers complies with our Sourcing Policy. • • • • ✔ company’s sourcing policy Percentage of volume verified FP2 with internationally recognized Sustainable Sourcing, page 33 • ✔ production standards Percentage of working time lost FP3 due to strikes, disputes and We had 5 lost hours due to labor conflicts. • • • • ✔ lock-outs Society Programs that promote healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic diseases; access to FP4 Healthy Lifestyles, page 30 • ✔ healthy, nutritious, and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities 52 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Product Responsibility Percentage of production volume certified by an independent third party For more information on the external certification of the Coca-Cola FEMSA products, view FP5 • ✔ according to internationally their 2015 Sustainability Report. recognized food safety management system standards Percentage of total sales of 40% of our Coca-Cola FEMSA brand portfolio is low-calorie beverages. For more FP6 products that are low in added • ✔ information, view Coca-Cola FEMSA’s 2015 Sustainability Report. sugars Percentage of total sales of products that contain nutritious 26% of our Coca-Cola FEMSA beverage brands include vitamins, fiber, minerals, or FP7 ingredients such as fiber, nutritional supplements. For more information, view Coca-Cola FEMSA’s 2015 Sustainability • ✔ vitamins, minerals, or functional Report. food additives Communication about For more information on communications about ingredients and nutritional information, ingredients and nutritional FP8 beyond legal requirements of the Coca-Cola FEMSA products, view the 2015 Sustainability • ✔ information beyond legal Report. requirements Animal Welfare Percentage and total of animals FP9 raised or processed, by species Does not apply and breed type Policies and practices, by species and breed type, related to FP10 Does not apply physical alterations and the use of anesthetic Percentage and total of animals raised or processed, by species FP11 Does not apply and breed type, per housing type Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, FP12 Does not apply hormone or treatments, by species and breed type Number of incidents of noncompliance with laws and regulations, and adherence with FP13 voluntary standards related to Does not apply transportation, handling, and slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animals Sectorial Supplement on Transportation and Logistics Economic Shipment Registration Number of ships controlled by LT1 Does not apply the organization Environmental Composition of the Fleet Fleet administrated by Units % Fuel % FEMSA Logística LT2 Composition of the fleet Primary National 39.4 58.3 • ✔ distribution International 27.8 28.7 Secondary National 20.4 9.8 distribution International 12.4 3.1 GRI G4 Content Index 53 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Environmental – Policies Describe environmental impact Our Planet, page 22 LT3 • ✔ policies and programs For more information, view FEMSA Logística’s 2015 Sustainability Report. Environmental – Energy Describe initiatives to use Energy, page 25 LT4 renewable sources of energy and • ✔ For more information, view FEMSA Logística’s 2015 Sustainability Report. to increase energy efficiency Environmental Urban Pollution Describe initiatives to control Energy, page 25 LT5 emissions as related to land • ✔ For more information, view FEMSA Logística’s 2015 Sustainability Report. transportation Environmental Vehicular Pollution Describe policies and programs Review the policies and programs implemented to manage the impacts of vehicular traffic in LT6 implemented to manage the • FEMSA Logística’s 2015 Sustainability Report. impacts of vehicular traffic Environmental Noise and Vibration At FEMSA Logística, we make sure that during the useful life of the transportation units with Describe policies and programs which we operate, original replacement parts are used that comply with all the LT7 • to manage noise requirements established by law. For more information, view FEMSA Logística’s 2015 Sustainability Report. Environmental Developing Transportation Infrastructure Describe environmental impacts LT8 of the main infrastructure assets Energy, page 25 • ✔ of the reporting organization Social Work Patterns At FEMSA Logística, our drivers comply with required resting periods. We have policies that Describe policies and programs establish work and rest schedules. The goal of these policies is for each trip to be managed to determine work and rest LT9 effectively and efficiently, and to ensure the health and safety of our operators through • schedules, rest facilities, and medical evaluations done prior to the trip, and vehicle inspections. For more information, driver licenses view FEMSA Logística’s 2015 Sustainability Report. Describe methods to provide Does not apply. FEMSA Logística handles its own national distribution service in every one mobile workers with the means LT10 of the countries where it operates, which means its workers do not spend long periods • to maintain personal away from home. For more information, view FEMSA Logística’s 2015 Sustainability Report. communications while working At FEMSA Logística, we carry out awareness campaigns, including adequate information concerning the negative effects and consequences of illegal drug and narcotics use. We do Describe policies and programs LT11 aleatory medical evaluations constantly to determine the health of our employees and • concerning substance abuse monitor the use of any drugs or narcotics. For more information, view FEMSA Logística’s 2015 Sustainability Report. Social Road Safety Number of on-the-road fatalities LT12 by driver per million kilometers 0.062 fatalities of drivers or third parties by million kilometers driven. • ✔ driven 54 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Business Units External G4 Content Reference or response assurance I/ (page 56) KOF FC FL PTM Social Safety Ship Inspections Describe incidents of ships being LT13 Does not apply detained by port inspectors Social Access to Mail Describe policies and programs LT14 Does not apply for public access to mail services Social Humanitarian Programs Supply of logistics and transportation capabilities to FEMSA has a policy of allocating resources for natural disasters as well as providing logistics LT15 deliver humanitarian aid and and aid services to humanitarian needs. For more information, view FEMSA Logística’s 2015 • in-kind contributions during Sustainability Report. natural disasters Social Labor Programs As a result of the Labor Reform, FEMSA Logística has taken internal measures to make all Criteria to select employee hiring LT16 temporary hires directly instead of using recruiting agencies. For more information, view • and relocating services FEMSA Logística’s 2015 Sustainability Report. Social Job Permanence Measures that ensure income 1.58% of the FEMSA Logística workforce are temporary workers. Therefore, it is not a LT17 security and job permanence of significant percentage. • ✔ temporary workers GRI G4 Content Index 55 Independent Assurance Report Galaz, Yamazaki, Ruiz Urquiza, S.C. Paseo de la Reforma 489, piso 6 Colonia Cuauhtémoc 06500 México, D.F. México Phone: +52 (55) 5080 6000 Fax: +52 (55) 5080 6001 www.deloitte.com/mx Independent assurance report to Fomento Económico Mexicano, S.A.B. de C.V. (FEMSA) Management on the Sustainability Report 2015 Responsibilities of FEMSA and Independent Reviewer The elaboration of the Sustainability Report 2015 (SR), as well as its content, is responsibility of FEMSA, who is also responsible for defining, adapting and maintaining the management systems and internal controls from which the analysis information is obtained. Our responsibility is to issue an independent report based on the procedures applied during our review. This report has been prepared exclusively for the management of FEMSA in accordance with the terms of our letter of agreement dated November 17th, 2015 and is not intended to be nor should it be used by someone other than this. We do not assume any responsibility against any other than the management of FEMSA and it has no intention to be used by other than the management of FEMSA. The elaboration of this work was aligned to the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) independence normativity. Scope of our work The scope of our assurance was limited, and is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance work. Therefore the security provided is also lower. This report in no case can be understood as an audit report. We conducted our review of the SR under the following conditions and/or criteria: a) The adaptation of the contents of the SR to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines version 4 (G4) and according to the materiality study provided by FEMSA. b) The review of the sustainability performance indicators reported according to the option Comprehensive and specified in the GRI Index at the same report. c) The information contained in the SR is consistent with supporting evidence provided by management. Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/mx/aboutus for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. 56 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Assurance standards and procedures We have performed our work in accordance with the International Auditing Standard ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Boards (IAASB) of IFAC. Our review work included the formulation of questions to the management as well as various departments of FEMSA that have participated in the elaboration of the SR and the application of certain analytical and sample screening tests that are described below. a) Meetings with staff of FEMSA to learn the principles, systems and applied management approaches. b) Analysis of the process to collect, validate and consolidate the data presented in the SR. c) Analysis of scope, relevance and integrity of the information included in the SR in terms of the understanding of FEMSA and of the requirements that stakeholders have identified as material aspects. d) Selected sample review from the evidence that supports the information included on the SR. Indicators The following table details the revised indicators. G4–1 G4–19 G4–36 G4–57 G4–EN8 G4–EN29 G4–LA12 G4–SO5 G4–FP4 G4–2 G4–20 G4–37 G4–58 G4–EN9 G4–EN30 G4–LA13 G4–SO6 G4–FP5 G4–3 G4–21 G4–38 G4–EC2 G4–EN10 G4–EN31 G4–LA14 G4–SO7 G4–FP6 G4–4 G4–22 G4–39 G4–EC3 G4–EN15 G4–EN32 G4–LA16 G4–SO8 G4–FP7 G4–5 G4–23 G4–40 G4–EC4 G4–EN16 G4–EN33 G4–HR1 G4–SO9 G4–FP8 G4–6 G4–24 G4–41 G4–EC5 G4–EN17 G4–EN34 G4–HR2 G4–SO11 G4–LT2 G4–7 G4–25 G4–42 G4–EC6 G4–EN18 G4–LA1 G4–HR3 G4–PR1 G4–LT3 G4–8 G4–26 G4–43 G4–EC7 G4–EN19 G4–LA2 G4–HR5 G4–PR2 G4–LT4 G4–10 G4–27 G4–44 G4–EC8 G4–EN20 G4–LA3 G4–HR6 G4–PR3 G4–LT5 G4–11 G4–28 G4–45 G4–EC9 G4–EN21 G4–LA4 G4–HR7 G4–PR4 G4–LT8 G4–12 G4–29 G4–46 G4–EN1 G4–EN22 G4–LA5 G4–HR8 G4–PR5 G4–LT12 G4–13 G4–30 G4–47 G4–EN2 G4–EN23 G4–LA6 G4–HR9 G4–PR7 G4–LT17 G4–14 G4–31 G4–48 G4–EN3 G4–EN24 G4–LA7 G4–HR10 G4–PR8 G4–15 G4–32 G4–49 G4–EN4 G4–EN25 G4–LA8 G4–HR12 G4–PR9 G4–16 G4–33 G4–51 G4–EN5 G4–EN26 G4–LA9 G4–SO1 G4–FP1 G4–17 G4–34 G4–52 G4–EN6 G4–EN27 G4–LA10 G4–SO3 G4–FP2 G4–18 G4–35 G4–56 G4–EN7 G4–EN28 G4–LA11 G4–SO4 G4–FP3 The scope of the review work on the following indicators: G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN19, G4-SO1, G4-PR1, G4PR3, G4-PR5 does not include FEMSA Comercio (FEMCO) operations. Actions creating Value 57 Conclusion The SR considers the application of the GRI Guidelines G4. Based on the performance of our work described in this report, nothing comes to our attention that could make us believe that the SR contains significant errors or has not been prepared it in accordance with the Comprehensive option established in the GRI Guidelines G4. Recommendations The following list summarizes the most significant recommendations, which do not alter the conclusions expressed in this report:  Improve the management and validation of the corresponding information for the material aspects for FEMSA and its business unit.  Strengthen the information contained in the material indicators to be reported in the SR according to the guidelines and sector supplements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) aiming to enhance the transparency towards FEMSA stakeholders.  Involve the parties responsible of the information by empowering them on the high relevance of their contribution and on FEMSA´s accomplishments. Galaz, Yamazaki, Ruíz Urquiza, S.C. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited MBA Daniel Aguiñaga Gallegos Partner February 26th, 2016 58 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Independent Assurance Report of Greenhouse Gas Emission indicators Galaz, Yamazaki, Ruiz Urquiza, S.C. Paseo de la Reforma 489 Piso 6 Colonia Cuauhtémoc 06500 México, D.F. México Tel: + 52 (55) 5080 6000 Fax: + 52 (55) 5080 6001 www.deloitte.com/mx Independent assurance report to Fomento Económico Mexicano, S.A.B de C.V. (FEMSA) Management on Greenhouse Gas Emission indicators. Objective This document has the objective to issue an independent assurance report on Greenhouse Gas Emission Indicators (GHG Indicators) reported according to the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines (GRI) version 4 (G4), reported in FEMSA’s Sustainability Report 2015 and it refers only to those indicators mentioned in this assurance report, which is complementary to the independent assurance of FEMSA’s Sustainability Report 2015. Responsibilities of FEMSA and Independent Reviewer The elaboration of the GHG Indicators, as well as its content is responsibility of FEMSA, who is also responsible for defining, adapting and maintaining the management systems and internal controls from which the information is obtained. Our responsibility is to issue an independent report based on the procedures applied during our review. This report has been prepared exclusively for the management of FEMSA in accordance with the terms of our letter of agreement dated November 17th, 2015 and is not intended to be nor should it be used by someone other than this. Scope of our work The scope of our assurance was limited, and is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance work. Therefore the security provided is also lower. This report in no case can be understood as an audit report. We conducted our review of the GHG Indicators under the following conditions and/or criteria: a) The adaptation of the contents of the GHG Indicators to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines version 4 (G4). b) The information contained in the GHG Indicators is consistent with supporting evidence provided by management. Assurance standards and procedures We have performed our work in accordance with the International Auditing Standard ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Boards (IAASB) of IFAC. Deloitte se refiere a Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, sociedad privada de responsabilidad limitada en el Reino Unido, y a su red de firmas miembro, cada una de ellas como una entidad legal única e independiente. Conozca en www.deloitte.com/mx/conozcanos la descripción detallada de la estructura legal de Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited y sus firmas miembro. Actions creating Value 59 Our review work included the formulation of questions to the management as well as various departments of FEMSA that have participated in the elaboration of the GHG Indicators and the application of certain analytical and sample screening tests that are described below. a) Meetings with staff of FEMSA to learn the principles, systems and applied management approaches. b) Analysis of the process to collect, validate and consolidate the data presented in the GHG Indicators. c) Selected sample review from the evidence that supports the information included in the GHG Indicators. The following table details the revised indicators: G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Reporting Period: January 1st, 2015 to December 31st, 2015. Conclusion Based on the performance of our work described in this report, nothing comes to our attention that could make us believe that the GHG Indicators contain significant errors or have not been prepared in accordance with the GRI Guidelines G4. 60 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 Recommendations Additionally we present our recommendations, which do not modify the conclusions expressed in this report. • Strengthen the internal management system for the GHG emissions generated by FEMSA and its business unit through a web-based platform that allow the various information owners to manage the data and obtaining a greater certainty. • Implement GHG emissions reduction practices aligned to the core business of FEMSA and its several business unit Galaz, Yamazaki, Ruíz Urquiza, S.C. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited MBA Daniel Aguiñaga Gallegos Partner February 26th, 2016 Actions creating Value 61 Inter-sectorial Alliances (G4-16) Some of the associations in which we participate: Argentina Mexico Venezuela • Association of Coca-Cola Bottlers in • Chamber for Industrial Manufacturing • National Association for Refreshing Argentina (AFACC) in Nuevo León (CAINTRA) Beverages (ANBER) • Chamber of Non-Alcoholic Beverage • National Association of Private • Chamber for Food Industry in Industry in Argentina Transportation (ANTP) Venezuela (CAVIDEA) • Confederation of Industrial Chambers Brazil (CONCAMIN) International • Committee of Private Sector Studies • Associação Brasileira das Indústrias de for Sustainable Development • The World Economic Forum (WEF) Refrigerantes e Bebidas não Alcoólicas (CESPEDES) • Coporate Eco Forum (CEF) (ABIR) • Mexican Fund for Nature Conservation • World Environment Center (WEC) • Associação Brasileira de Anunciantes (FMCN) • Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All) (ABA) • Business Coordinating Council (CCE) • Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) • Associação Brasileira de Indústria de • National Association for Soft Drink and • The Aspen Network of Development Agua Mineral (ABINAN) Carbonated Beverages (ANPRAC) Entrepreneurs (ANDE) • Mexican Center for Philanthropy • RedeAmérica Colombia (CEMEFI) • New Employment Opportunities • Chamber of Commerce for the (NEO) • National Businessmen Association in Processing Industry (CANACINTRA) Colombia (ANDI) • Mexican Confederation of Employers • Association of Industrials in Tocancipá (COPARMEX) (ASIENORTE) • National Association of Supermarkets and Department Stores (ANTAD) Central America • National Chamber of Commerce (CANACO) Chamber of Food Industry in Costa Rica • Association of Coca-Cola Bottlers (CACIA) (ASCOCA) • Global Institute for Sustainability (IGS) • Union of Chambers and Private • National Consulting Committee for Business Associations from Costa Rica Land Transportation Normalization (UCCAEP) (CCNN-TT) • American Chamber Costa Rica, • Red SumaRSE Guatemala, Nicaragua (AMCHAM) Philippines • Beverages Industry Association of The Philippines 62 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 FEMSA FEMSA Comercio • Socially Responsible Company 2015 • Socially Responsible Company 2015 (CEMEFI, Mexico) (CEMEFI, Mexico) • Award on Industry Ethics and Values • Inclusive Company Distinction “Gilberto Sustainability • (CONCAMIN, Mexico) Ganar-Ganar Award 2015 for Best Social Rincón Gallardo” 1 (Department of Labor and Social Prevision, Mexico) Recognitions Responsibility Report (Promotora Accse) 2015 FEMSA Negocios Coca-Cola FEMSA Estratégicos • Dow Jones Sustainability Index Emerging Markets FEMSA Logística • Silver Eikon Prize in the category of • Socially Responsible Company 2015 Relations with the community (Revista (CEMEFI, Mexico) Imagen, Argentina) • National Award for Road Safety: • 1st Place PEGASUS 2015 (Brasil) Company Category and Employee • Participation in Environmental Fair Category (ANTP, Mexico) MINAE (Minister of Environment and • Distinction to the excelent fleet’s Energy, Central America) environmental performance • Triple A 2015 Prize to good practices in (SEMARNAT, Mexico) the management of hazardous waste (Triple A, Central America) Imbera • Socially Responsible Company 2015 • Socially Responsible Company 2015 (CEMEFI, Mexico) (CEMEFI, Mexico) • Clean Transportation Program • Clean Industry (SEMARNAT, Mexico) (SEMARNAT, Mexico) • Inclusive Company to the Coca-Cola PTM FEMSA Contact Center (Department of • Socially Responsible Company 2015 Labor and Social Prevision, Mexico) (CEMEFI, Mexico) • Clean Industry (SEMARNAT, Mexico) • Award for Alliance (Olimpiadas Especiales, Venezuela) Human Rights Environment Principle I (GC I) Principle VII (GC VII) Support and respect the protection of human Support a precautionary approach to Support for the rights. Principle II (GC II) environmental challenges. Principle VIII (GC VIII) United Nations Not being an accomplice in human rights abuse. Promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle IX (GC IX) Labor conditions Global Compact Principle III (GC III) Encourage the development and communication of environmentally respectful technologies. (G4-15) Uphold the freedom of association principles and the right to collective bargaining. Fight against Corruption Principle IV (GC IV) Principle X (GC X) Eliminate forced and compulsory labor. Work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle V (GC V) extortion and bribery. Abolish any form of child labor. Principle VI (GC VI) Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation matters. 1 Distinction awarded to 185 OXXO stores. 63 Corporate Communication Sustainability Department Department Carolina Alvear Sevilla Contact and Mauricio Reyes López Karla Torres Elizondo Anik Varés Leal Luis Fernando Ramírez Yáñez Information Phone: (52) 81 83 28 67 96 Gabriel González Ayala G4-31 Phone: (52) 55 52 49 68 43 Phone: (52) 55 52 49 68 02 comunicacion@femsa.com sostenibilidad@femsa.com.mx Annual Reports FEMSA Coca-Cola FEMSA FEMSA Foundation Annual Report 2015 Annual Report 2015 Annual Report 2015 www.annualreport.femsa.com www.coca-colafemsa.com www.femsafoundation.org/ report2015 Sustainability Reports Coca-Cola FEMSA FEMSA Comercio FEMSA Logística Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability Report 2015 https://www.coca-colafemsa.com/ http://www.oxxo.com/ http://www.fl.com.mx/es/ sustainability.html responsabilidad-social/ sostenibilidad/ 64 FEMSA Sustainability Report 2015 FEMSA: Carolina Alvear, Anik Varés, Gabriel González, Luis Fernando Celise Aparecida Rocha Ritto, Dolores Rey, Magdalena Senatore, Ramírez, Abiel Guerra, Mauricio Reyes, Karla Torres, Areli González, Mariana Tajada, Maria Valeria Pessagno, Roberto Ramos, Mariana Marisol Soltero, Rogelio Gómez, Carlos Valle, Andrea Ytuarte, Edna Parma, Thomas Aranguren, Liliana Sierraalta, Rafael Briceño, Aldo García, Zuly Silerio, Diana Cedano, Mariana Perales, Sandra Flores, Ibarlucea, Nelson Victoria, Mickael Abdalah, Julio César Galvis, María Acknowledgement Catalina Cantú, Nelly Andrade, Natalí Ibarra, Esteban Vaquero, Janeth Fernanda Rodríguez, Jesús Alfonso Cárdenas, Carlos José Trujillo, Luna, José Viggiano, Thalía Fernández, Armando Fragoso, Mario Alberto Correal Ballen, Henry Astudillo, Sandra Milena Santa Ruiz, López, Ana María Gómez, Ingrid Pérez, Amapola Cruz, Ana Victoria Vivian Ruiz Peraza, Tania Cordero, Raúl Natera, Edgar Palacios, Javier Reyes, Olivia de León, Guadalupe Monterde, Eulalio Cerda, Miguel Muñoz, Pablo Angoso, Héctor Fernández, Catherine Avelino, Ángel González Osuna, Karla Carrera, David Holguín, Aldo Becerra, Catherine Reuben, Marina Rodriguez, Gloriana Longhi, Vivian Alarcón, Adriana Arévalo, Irlanda Moreno, Ignacio Mosqueda, Norma Gabriela Díaz del Castillo, Luis Alberto Alba, Ana Elena Padilla Muñoz Maldonado, Luis Toledo, Magaly Hinojosa, Rossana Valdez, Marcela De Cote, Sergio Armando León, Teresa Domínguez, Patricia Guzmán, Barrera, Mauricio Luna, Verónica Castañeda, Rosa María Rodríguez, Ana Cecilia Martínez, Cinthya Fuentes, Simón Pestano, Andrea Graciela García, Martha García, Luis Quirós, Julio Santiesteban, Galarraga, Fernando Alberto Simón Leal, Lady Stella Díaz, Pablo Mauricio Cavazos, Gerardo Espronceda, Alfredo Jacobo, Luis Felipe Angoso Rodríguez Del Valle. Muñoz, Jorge Sepúlveda, Carlos Aldrete, Rodrigo Anzola, Alejandro Gil, Patricia Guevara, David Martínez, Luis Villarreal, Ivonne Valenzuela, FEMSA COMERCIO: Cordelia Portilla, Francisco Martínez, William Mc Samantha Loza, Yesenia Navarro, Karla González, Adrián Inguanzo, Clintock, Abraham González, Reynaldo Martínez, Anabel Olivas, Víctor Treviño, José Alfredo Ríos, Alberto Rodríguez, Gerardo Vera, Leonardo Pérez, Erika Cárdenas, María Dolores Regalado, Olga Torres, Gilberto Daniel, José Ángel González Franco, Roberto Lara, Francisco Leticia González, Lorena Rabago, José Zavala, Abraham Garza, Rocío Alanís, Francisco Dávila, Araceli Rivera, Gerardo Lozoya, José Antonio Martínez, Gerardo Cavazos, Karla de la Parra, Víctor Mora, María Elena Salinas, Aineth Peña, Vidal Garza, Maricela Carreón, Liz Castellanos, Dávila, Nelson Bonilla, José Ángel Rodríguez, Santiago Rivera, Sergio Ginnie Dorado, Juan Fonseca, Marcela Vega, José Rangel. Garza, Evelyn García. FEMSA FOUNDATION: Mariano Montero, Ilsa Ruiz, Eva Fernández, STRATEGIC BUSINESSES: Olga Correa, Milton Armijo, Gabriela Carlos Hurtado, Irais Bermea, Renata Ruelas, Everardo Esquivel. Méndez, María Argüelles, Maribel De la Garza, Virgina Martínez, Victoria Valencia, Carolina Restrepo, Milena Rodríguez, Sara COCA-COLA FEMSA: Francisco Suárez Hernández, Darío Ochoa, Rodríguez, Emilio Villegas, Arturo González, Carla Russi, José Pablo Aurea Patiño, Ana Laura Elizondo, Juan Carlos Cortés, Jordi Cueto, Perla Hernández, Raymundo Reséndiz, Erika de la Peña, Daniela Villarreal, Islas, Salvador Trejo, Agustín Ahumada, Guadalupe Riquelme, Roland Fernanda Espinosa, Viridiana Delgado, Martín Frías Anaya, Rubén Karig, José Manuel Fernández Sainz, Tania Ramírez Silva, José Francisco Ángel Montemayor, Jesús Garza Bernal, Alex Theissen, Ángel Orozco, Martínez, Sarah Orellana, Ricardo Milán, Paula Franco, Alejandra David López Mallama, Isidro Cruz, Matheus de Camargo, Micheline Muñoz, Cecilia Hidalgo, Alejandro Duncan, Mariano García, Jorge Gutiérrez, Cristina Sánchez, Vitorio Ferreira Lisboa, Yuly Mendoza, Torres, Cecilia Villamil, Eduardo Salazar, Carlos Sedano, José Martín del Alberto Morán, Karen Chávez, Arlette Reyes, Noé Salazar, Onofre Campo, Sergio Moreno, Salvador Fonseca, Virgen Pineda, Raúl Pérez Costilla, Valerie Hurtado, Ana Cristina Bojórquez, Roberto de la Torre. Murguía, Salvador García Castillo, Adulfo Vidals Rosas, Natasha Gabrieli de Fatima Monteiro Santos, Alexandre Frederico de Almeida, Aware that all efforts are important and although The estimates for environmental impact were printing of this report is relatively reduced, we carried out based on the Earth Savings Calculator, Responsible show our committment with the environment using available in: http://www.earthcolor.com/ printing harmless materials. sustainability/earth-savings-calculator Following we indicate the savings achieved using This report was printed on paper: recycled fiber instead of virgin fiber in this document, in which we use paper with 30% • FSC 80# Accent Opaque Cover postconsumption recycled material. (30% Post Consumer fiber, cover) • FSC 80# Accent Opaque Text • 0.11 acres preserved via sustainable forestry, (30% Post Consumer fiber, interiors) the equivalent of 0.08 football fields. • 20.61 less trees consumed, the equivalent of Certified by the Rainforest Alliance to FSC® 304.41 reams of paper. Standards, manufactured in conditions free of acid • 9.25 million BTU’s less energy used, the with 30% post-consumption recycled material. equivalent of powering 0.10 homes for a year. • 3384.35 lbs of greenhouse gases reduced and/or offset, the equivalent of taking 0.31 cars off the road for a year. • 9634.32 gallons less water consumed, the equivalent of 0.01 full-sized Olympic pools. design: signi.com.mx Actions creating Value www.femsa.com Fomento Económico Mexicano, S.A.B. de C.V. General Anaya 601 Pte. Col. Bella Vista C.P. 64410 Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico
