BRAEMAC LIMITED GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress 2015/16 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director Having participated in the UN Global Compact for four years now, I am pleased to confirm that Braemac Limited remains fully committed to supporting the United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In our fourth annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to ensure continuous integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sarah Lavelle Managing Director Braemac Limited COP Page 1 of 5 Human Rights Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and for this reason will not enter into business agreements with any suppliers’ or customers’ where human rights are not respected. We identify the importance of Corporate Responsibility to respect human rights and have measures in place to minimise the risk of exposure to all employees and business activities. All necessary procedures are in place with regards to facilities provided being safe and sanitary to meet all basic human needs. All employees have access to clean drinking water and sanitised refrigerated food storage / cooking facilities. Implementation Braemac Limited fully support the right to freedom of speech and actively encourage all our employees to report instances of human rights related issues to higher management. If a violation were to be reported by an employee then all steps would be taken to fully understand the issue, a resolution sought and awareness raised to all employees to avoid any re-occurrence. Management Review meetings are held regularly and address a number of points including identification and implementation of changes/improvements required to the business environment and/or staff resources, as an integral way of identifying improvement to working conditions for our employees. Outcomes In the past year Braemac Limited has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Any such instances would be dealt with through our grievance procedure by the Managing Director with appropriate follow-up and remedial action where necessary. Braemac Limited COP Page 2 of 5 Labour Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited supports the ILO Core Conventions and remains committed to ensuring we have no business activities with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. Braemac Limited employee working hours do not exceed 48 hours a week as per The Working Time Regulations 1998. As part of our Health & Safety measures Manual Handling training is provided for employees whose day-to-day tasks involve lifting / carrying. Implementation Braemac Limited have put in place procedures to ensure workload is distributed equally between team members when an employee is absent for an extended amount of time to ensure fairness within the workplace. Every effort is made to ensure our employees work in a safe office and warehouse environment with provision for the following: 6 First Aid trained employees to handle an emergency situation should one arise, with designated locations for first aid kits 2 Fire Marshal trained employees to oversee instances of fire risk, with fire extinguishers and fire exits clearly signed An “open door” policy is adopted by the management team allowing employees to speak to higher management at any time should they have any work related issues. Outcome Members of the Braemac team have visited some of our overseas manufacturing partners and observed the working conditions of their employees with no evidence found of child or forced labour. In line with government requirements Braemac has set up a pension scheme for all employees. Braemac Limited has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. In the past year Braemac Limited has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions. Braemac Limited COP Page 3 of 5 Environment Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited have a RoHS Policy covering the regulatory and legislative restrictions on the use of specific substances that have been identified as being detrimental to the environment. As part of our supply chain we clearly state on supplier orders that product must be RoHS compliant in accordance with the RoHS II EU Directive 2011/65/EU. We aim to re-use the majority of incoming packaging in our shipments to minimise any excess waste or usage of packing materials. Implementation We have reviewed shipping methods to ensure more product is shipped by sea freight which has reduced our carbon footprint during the last 12 months. An option has been introduced for customer’s to receive their invoices by email opposed to a paper copy being sent via the postal service to reduce paper waste. Outcomes Braemac Limited have used electronic marketing tools to promote our products to our customers which has reduced paper usage and waste. We have purchased new office equipment with combined functions and auto shut-off capabilities supporting energy saving within the business environment. We continue to recycle old and redundant electrical goods through safe and responsible recycling services. Braemac Limited has not had any reports of environmental incidents within the last year or been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Braemac Limited COP Page 4 of 5 Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion and is compliant with the Bribery Act. We do not work with businesses located in corrupt countries or with organisations that are corrupt. We will not tolerate any dishonest behaviour from our employees, customers or suppliers. Implementation New security software has recently been installed on the company mainframe server that scans all incoming emails. The banking company we use has implemented a new “smart card” reader to safeguard fraudulent access of the company bank accounts with issuance of cards to Braemac employees who are involved with supplier payments and the Managing Director. Access can only be completed for each employee using a unique pin number and password. Daily reconciliation of the banking system is carried out and monthly checks completed of company credit card usage to monitor payment activity. Outcomes The new security software has successfully quarantined emails where corruption and/or financial extortion is the sender’s intention and is an invaluable tool as part of our commitment to protect the business and employees from bribery or corrupt behaviour. During the last 12 months Braemac Limited have not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. Braemac Limited COP Page 5 of 5
