New Eyes for Industry CSR Report Message from the President Realizing CSR Through Our Core Business The range of uses for lenses is growing steadily wider, including not just photographic lenses but also lenses for use in security cameras and automotive cameras, etc. Reflecting this situation, we at Tamron see ourselves as having a mission to realize a corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategy that contributes to bringing joy to as many people as possible, and also provides benefits for society as a whole and for the environment, through our core business of making lenses as the “New Eyes for Industry.”To this end, we are developing design, development and production systems for the creation of high-quality, environmentally-friendly products, and further improving our quality not only in Japan, but worldwide; in the future, Tamron will continue to develop new products that really strike a chord with our customers, while also giving them security and peace of mind. With regard to the environment, Tamron has set itself the target of reducing company-wide carbon dioxide emissions by an average of 1% per year on a unit sales basis, compared to the benchmark year of FY2012, so that, by 2020, CO2 emissions will have been reduced by approximately 7% compared to FY2012. Unfortunately, whereas FY2015 should have seen emissions fall by a cumulative 3% according to the target, they actually rose by 5.6%. Almost the entirety of Tamron’ s CO2 emissions are accounted for by the electric power used in the company’ s production processes. Tamron will be working hard in the future to realize more effective production and achieve its medium-term emission reduction targets. We are also in the process of building a better supply chain: one that emphasizes compliance with relevant laws and regulations (both in Japan and overseas), upholds international standards relating to socially-responsible procurement (such as those concerning conflict minerals etc.), respects human rights and provides a satisfactory working environment, and pays due attention to fair operating practices. Supporting CSR Through Effective Human Resources Cultivation and Appropriate Working Practices Tamron has for many years now sought to cultivate“self-disciplined employees,”by which is meant employees who strive to adopt a professional mindset and are able to carry out their work in a professional manner. This cultivation of“self-disciplined employees”is very important for the company, and derives from an approach to business management that recognizes the vital importance of employees. In this way, Tamron is able to ensure that our employees respond fully to customers’needs, and work actively to make a positive contribution to society as a whole. The guiding principle behind our company’ s activities is the concept of“Team Tamron.”It is vital that, when carrying out our work, we always think in terms of what is best for the Tamron Group President & CEO as a whole. Creating an environment where female employees can thrive is particularly important; one example of how Tamron has worked to achieve this goal is the establishment of the“Tamron Tamron Co., Ltd. Kids Day-care Center”at Tamron’ s head office in FY2015. Tamron is also working to boost the Shiro Ajisaka share of senior managers who are female, and is providing incentives to ensure that employees make full use of the childcare leave system. We are also working to change employee mindsets regarding their work so that not working overtime comes to be seen as perfectly normal; we are committed to making work-styles more efficient and eliminating unnecessary, pointless“work for work’ s sake.”Helping employees to achieve a work-life balance in which there is a clear distinction between work and home life helps make people more enthusiastic about their work and encourages flexible, creative thinking, thereby creating a“virtuous circle”in the workplace. S u p p o r t i n g t h e 10 P r i n c i p l e s o f t h e U N G l o b a l Compact Tamron continues to be an active supporter of the10 principles laid out in the U.N. Global Compact as part of its global expansion. We recognize that these 10 principles represent guidelines that truly multinational corporations must put into practice, and as such, we have reflected these principles in our Action Declarations and thoroughly educate our employees on the principles. Compliance at our overseas sites is particularly important and our compliance action guidelines incorporating specific activities have been made known to all so that we can fulfill the expectations and trust of our stakeholders around the world. In compiling this CSR Report, we focused on engagement with stakeholders. We would greatly appreciate your comments and suggestions for how we can further improve our CSR management In addition, regarding the disclosure of non-financial information, which is encouraged by Japan’ s Corporate Governance Code, Tamron intends to continue to disclose information proactively, with this Report playing a key role. 1 Tamron CSR Report 2016 Corporate Philosophy With its firm commitment to developing high-quality, innovative and technologically advanced products that satisfy customer needs, Tamron is securing a leading position in the worldwide optical industry. Our primary objective is to sustain strong corporate growth based on a high level of customer satisfaction achieved by providing superior products at the right price, thus also contributing to the prosperity of our shareholders and employees. Company Profile Trade name Tamron Co., Ltd. Head office 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-shi, Saitama, Japan Tel. +81-48-684-9111 Founded November 1, 1950 Incorporated October 27, 1952 Capital 6.923 billion yen President & CEO Shiro Ajisaka Employees 5,829 (consolidated; excluding 1,814 temporary employees) Head Office (Saitama City, Saitama Prefecture) Net sales 71.946 billion yen (consolidated; as of December 31, 2015) [Net Sales for the Previous Five Years] Listed First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange Consolidated (Billion yen) Domestic plants One each in Hirosaki, Namioka and Owani in Aomori 800 736 719 Overseas plants Foshan, China and Hanoi, Vietnam 700 684 643 585 Consolidated subsidiaries 600 United States, Germany, France, Hong Kong, China (Shanghai), 500 400 Russia, and India 300 200 100 0 Outline of Business Operations 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY Commercial/ 17.8% [Employees] industrial-use optics (person) Consolidated (regular employees) Consolidated (temporary employees) 8,000 1,814 （Notes:1） 7,000 406 4,090 3,985 3,843 6,000 Optical 6.3% Percentage 5,000 components of sales by business 4,000 segment 3,000 6,005 5,829 (FY2015, consolidated) 2,000 2,295 2,545 2,694 1,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY （Notes:2） Photographic 75.9% Notes: 1.“Temporary employees etc. (Consolidated)”shows the average lenses number of temporary employees. 2. The increase in the number of regular employees in 2015 was mainly due to a change in the employment status of workers at Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. (Tamron’ s manufacturing subsidiary in China). Contents Message from the President… …………………………… 1 Corporate Philosophy / Company Profile / Table of Contents…… 2 Tamron’ s CSR Management………………………………… 3 Editorial Policy ＊‌This report was issued to keep stakeholders, including customers, employees, Participation in the UN Global Compact… …………… 4 shareholders, investors, business partners, local communities, public institutions, NGOs and NPOs, abreast of Tamron’ s activities for protecting the Special Feature: Aiming to Help Tamron Employees environment and carrying out its social responsibilities. Balance Work and Childcare… …………………………… 5 ＊‌This report covers activities across the entire Tamron Group, including Tamron Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Co., Relationship with Shareholders and Investors… ……… 7 Ltd. and overseas sales subsidiaries, excluding certain environmental data and other information. Relationship with Business Partners……………………… 8 ＊Guidelines mainly referenced in compiling this report: Relationship with Customers… …………………………… 9 ・‌Environmental Report Guidelines (Ministry of the Environment) (FY2012 version) Management System… …………………………………… 13 ・‌Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 4.0 Relationship with the Environment… ………………… 15 ・‌Environmental Accounting Guidelines (Ministry of the Environment) (FY2005 version) Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved…… 16 ＊‌The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and ISO 26000:2010 Manual on Business Entities’Social Responsibility were also referenced to identify Reducing CO2 Emissions and Electricity Consumption…… 17 important information that should be disclosed to stakeholders. Reducing Waste and Water Consumption…………… 18 ＊‌We made efforts to disclose information based on stakeholder perspectives, by referencing the warranty processes in the AA1000 Warranty Standard. Relationship with Society………………………………… 19 ＊‌The cover design was selected to express our stance toward contributing to the environment and achieving harmony with all stakeholders through our Activities at Tamron’ s Overseas Subsidiaries………… 21 lenses. Independent Third-Party Opinion……………………… 22 Tamron CSR Report 2016 2 Tamron’ s CSR Management Enhancing Corporate Value Tw e lve T h e m e s fo r E n h a n c i n g C S R Tamron’ s CSR management is conducted under our corporate Management (Identification of Key Issues) philosophy of contributing to the economy, societ y and environment as eyes for industry. Tamron also pursues CSR Tamron has been working to identify and analyze the key issues management through stakeholder engagement based on the that it needs to focus on, taking into account the expectations Action Declarations, which define the stance the company of shareholders and the changes taking place in society and in should take toward stakeholders divided into the five categories the economy. Targets have been set for 12 key themes, including of “customers,”“employees,”“shareholders,”“business themes relating to important issues of general concern such as partners,”and“society,”and the Action Codes, which show how “Environment”and“Quality and Safety,”as well as themes all Tamron employees should conduct themselves. relating more specifically to the foundations of the company’ s operations. By addressing these 12 themes, while paying attention to the needs of the environment, society and the economy, Tamron is aiming to make itself a company that has Tamron s Action Declarations the power to be selected by customers. 1. This ‌ is one of our corporate objectives, showing that we have the power to be ●From the customer perspective selected and supported by customers. Recognizing that customer satisfaction is of the highest importance, Tamron will contribute to society by supplying safe, high-quality original products and services. Twelve Themes Association table ●From the employee perspective Twelve Themes Relevant page ・In order to become self-reliant, each employee at Tamron works with a challenge-ready spirit, maintains good communications Compliance P7、14 with fellow workers to create a lively work environment, and strives to yield the best possible results at all times while observCorporate Governance P7 ing laws and regulations. ・Each and every employee at Tamron respects human rights to Risk Management P13 support society as a good corporate citizen. Environment P15 〜 18 ●From the shareholders/investor perspective Everyone working at Tamron strives to enhance corporate value Disclosure P7 through faithful management, to proactively engage stakeholders, and to enhance stakeholder conﬁdence in Tamron as a company Quality and Safety P9 〜 12 worthy of long-term investment. Occupational Safety & Health P14 ●From the business partner perspective By respecting human rights, complying with laws and carrying out Employment and Human Resources P5 〜 6 fair and transparent business transactions, Tamron will ensure that it can build relationships with its business partners so that Human Rights P5 〜 6、8 they deliver quality materials and services, achieve mutual growth Social Contributions P19 〜 21 and contribute to society. ●From the society perspective Information Security P7 ・Maintaining good communications with local communities, Privacy Protection P7 Tamron will strive to contribute to their growth while upholding their traditions and culture as a good corporate citizen. ・Tamron will observe laws and regulations, aiming to earn conﬁdence from society as a good corporate citizen. ・Tamron takes a resolute stance against all anti-social The Power to be forces and organizations that pose threats to the public Corporate Value order and safety of our civil society. Selected ・Tamron will work hard in NGO and NPO projects to help Responsibility to Contribute to establish a good society. Disclosure Social Contributions Communicating for CSR Promotion Environment Tamron’ s CSR Committee meets monthly to closely monitor Quality and Safety Employment and Social and Environmental Issues t h e p ro g re s s o f C S R a c t i v i t i e s . T h e c o m m i t t e e i s a n Human Resources organization under the direct control of the President and CEO. Occupational Safety & Health Representatives from all divisions at the head office and plants in Information Security Japan and overseas meet through videoconferencing. Privacy Protection Human Rights Risk Management Every year Tamron publishes a CSR report as part of our Compliance stakeholder engagement activities. We are pleased to Society Environment Corporate Governance announce that our CSR report for 2015 was recognized with an award of excellence at the 19th Environmental Economy Communication Awards sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum, marking the second consecutive year that Tamron has won this award. Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management 3 Tamron CSR Report 2016 ISO26000-4.7 Respect for international norms of behavior Participation in the UN Global Compact Tamron has operations around the world, including a Tamron will continue to abide by the 10 principles and production base in China and subsidiary sales companies carry out corporate activities that fulfill its responsibilities in Europe and the United States. Agreeing to the Global to society. Co m p a c t (G C), in Au gust 20 07 Ta m ro n b e c a m e a supporter of this international initiative proposed by the United Nations to support the Ten Principles related to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. The Ten GC Principles became pillars for establishing our CSR promotion structure. (Please see page 4 of the COP report for a definitions of the 10 principles.) In FY2015, training was implemented via e -learning regarding the UN Global Compact and Tamron’ s CSR Report 2015, targeting the employees of Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical (Vietnam), Co., Ltd., For further details about the GC, please visit the United Nations and Tamron’ s other overseas subsidiaries; a total of 968 website at: WEB http://www.unglobalcompact.org/. employees underwent training. COP Report (Communication on Progress) The following table describes Tamron’ s accomplishments and efforts during FY2015 in line with the Ten Principles. Relevant Principles Tamron’ s Policies Results for FY2015 Page 1 ‌Business should support and respect ・‌We support basic human rights in our Human Rights the protection of internationally Action Declarations. ・‌Carried out operations based on the P3 proclaimed human rights. Human Rights Protection & Labour ・‌We declare respect for human rights and elimination of Standard Management Regulations. discrimination in our Compliance Regulations. ・‌Clarified management items for P5 〜 2 ‌Business should make sure that o p e r a t i o n s a n d s t r e n g t h e n e d P6 ・‌We clarify management items for operations and strengthen they are not complicit in human checks and balances (Japan and checks and balances (established the Human Rights rights abuses. Tamron Optical Foshan). Protection & Labour Standard Management Regulations for P8 Japan and Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd.). ・‌Established opportunities for periodic consultation between management and 3 ‌B u si n e s s s h o u l d u p h o l d t h e ・‌We declare respect for the right of our workers (including the Labour-Management P5 〜 freedom of association and the employees to organize in our Labour Ccouncil, Annual Business Plan Presentation effective recognition of the right P6 Organization Memorandum. Meeting, etc.) (at Tamron’ s head office). to collective bargaining. ・‌Improve working conditions through labor union activities. ・‌We stipulate the importance of complying ・‌Establishment of the“Tamron Kids 4 ‌B u si n e s s s h o u l d u p h o l d t h e Labour with labour-related laws and regulations and Day-care Center” P5 〜 elimination of all forms of forced maintaining a proper work environment for ・‌Making every day a“no overtime”P6 and compulsory labour. our employees in our Compliance Regulations. day (Tamron head office) We vow not to use child labour. We do not ・‌Implemented CSR・‌Established a manual to check the age of 5 ‌B u si n e s s s h o u l d u p h o l d t h e employ workers under the age of 15, which related e-learning, applicants at the time of hiring (Tamron P7 effective abolition of child labour. with content is stipulated in our employment rules. Optical Foshan and Tamron Optical Vietnam). including the UN ・‌Achieved targets for the ratio of females 6 ‌B u si n e s s s h o u l d u p h o l d t h e ・‌We have targets for employing persons Global Compact; promoted to management positions. P5 〜 elimination of discrimination with disabilities and a policy to increase e l e a r n i n g w a s ・‌Ratio of eligible employees taking parental in respect of employment and the ratio of female managers in order to P6 undergone by a total leave: 100%. occupation. realize a diversified work place. of 968 employees. ・‌Ratio of hiring of persons with disabilities: 2.4%. ・‌We h ave a p rov isi o n i n o u r co n s o l i d a te d management policy to prevent environmental P8 deterioration through efforts such as the following: ・‌N u m b e r o f i n ci d e n t s i n v o l v i n g 7 ‌Business should support a (1) Reducing CO2 emissions; l e a k a g e o f h a r m f u l c h e m i c a l P12 precautionary approach to (2) Reducing industrial waste; substances: None Environment environmental challenges. (3) Finding ‌ alternatives to harmful chemical ・‌Support for ecosystem protection P14〜 substances; and reducing the use of harmful (Tamron head office) chemical substances P20 (4) Conserving biodiversity 8 ‌Business should undertake initiatives ・‌We have a policy to clearly establish environmental ・‌Rate of decrease in carbon dioxide emissions: to promote greater environmental objectives and targets for the following: 5.6% increase (compared to FY2012, on a unit P12 responsibility. (1) Reducing CO2 emissions; sales basis) 9 ‌B u s i n e s s s h o u l d e n c o u ra ge t h e (2) ‌Re d u ci n g i n d ust rial wa ste e m issi o ns to ・Waste reduction target achieved P14〜 development and diffusion of ultimately achieve zero emissions; and ・‌Efforts to reduce product weight: 0.3% increase P18 environmentally friendly technologies. (3) ‌Promoting environmentally-friendly designs. ‌Efforts to reduce product size: 0.5% decrease ・‌We have a policy to regulate acts of endowment ・‌T h e C o m p l i a n c e P r o m o t i o n Anti-Corruption 10 Business ‌ should work against and political donations and terminate ties with Co mmit tee held wo rk sho ps fo r co r r u p t i o n i n a l l i t s fo r m s , anti-social forces in our Compliance Regulations employees to learn more about P7 including extortion and bribery. and Action Declarations. compliance. Tamron CSR Report 2016 4 Special Aiming to Help Tamron Employees Feature A wide variety of human talent is working at Tamron’ To ensure that the employees who underpin Tamron’ s business locations in Japan and s operations can fulfill their potential, employee evaluation and treatment, and workplaces characterized by mutual understanding Establishment of the “Tamron Kids Day-care Center” In November 2015, Tamron opened the“Tamron Kids Day-care Center”at the company’ s head office. At Tamron’ s business locations in Japan, over half of the employees are people in their 20s or 30s who are in the childrearing age group. To help employees who have taken time off to have children avoid the situation where being unable to find a place at a daycare center or kindergarten prevents them from coming back to work, it was decided that Tamron would open its own corporate day-care center. In this way, Tamron is providing the support needed to help both male and female employees balance their work responsibilities with their childcare responsibilities, and is aiming to help female employees fulfill their potential at the company. The day-care center is normally open from 07:30 until 18:30, but these hours can be extended to 07:00 – 19:00 to meet the needs of individual employees’work responsibilities. The day-care center is located immediately adjacent to the Tamron head office premises, which means that employees can make flexible use of the facility in line with their own work requirements; this is a big plus. The day-care center, the running of which has been sub-contracted to a specialist company with extensive experience operating day-care centers in hospitals and business enterprises, has nurses on standby at all times Tamron Kids Day-care Center in case a child gets sick or hurt, ensuring maximum peace of mind. The combination of care and nursing capabilities makes this a safe, highly functional, convenient facility. The Tamron Kids Day-care Center features wood construction, which helps to ensure the safety and health of the children using the facility, as well as being environmentally-friendly, and providing the feeling of friendly“warmth” that wood exudes. Much of the wood used in the Center’ s construction was sourced from forests in Saitama Prefecture, and is Japanese Agricultural The interior of the Day-care Center Standards (JAS) compliant, in line with the goal of creating a superior dayOverview of the Tamron Kids Day-care Center care center environment. The exterior design of the facility uses a“lens”motif appropriate Category of care service provided Small-scale Enterprise Day-care Center to an optical device manufacturer. Date of commencement November 2015 It is anticipated that the Tamron Kids Day-care of operation Center will receive formal certification from Building area: 245.62m (Floor area: 194.31m ) 2 2 Area Site area: 995.95m2 Saitama City in April 2016 as a“Small-scale Enterprise Day-care Center.”Places at the Places 30 children (additional places are available for local residents) Center are being allocated in such a way that Opening hours 07:30 – 18:30 (extended opening available from 07:00 – 07:30 and 18:30 – 19:00) it can be used not only by Tamron employees Construction: Wood + reinforced concrete but also by local residents. On weekends, the Special features Exterior design: A building based on a“lens”design motif Materials: Extensive use of timber sourced from forests in Saitama Prefecture Center gardens will be open to the public, (JAS-compliant) as part of Tamron’ s efforts to make a positive contribution to the local community. V O I C E Interview with I am responsible for the Mechanism design of lenses used in security cameras. As I gave birth immediately a Center user after some major changes had been made in the company’ s design system, I wanted to get back to work as soon as possible. However, there were no day-care centers with places available before April, so I have been using the Tamron Kids Day-care Center. Working in an office with a female supervisor means that the people around me at work are generally very considerate and understanding, and I have been able to go back to work full-time without being required to work overtime. When I had been using the Center for about a month, I received a phone call from the Center to tell me that my child had been taken ill; being so close, I was able to go over immediately to pick the child up, which was a big relief. Young children do tend to come down with fevers and infectious diseases, so there is always the possibility that a child may come Mechanical Design Section, Design & Engineering Dept. down with an illness that means they can’ t go to the Day-care Center. When a situation like that develops, Industrial Optics Business Unit if you can’ t take time off from work to deal with it, then that creates a problem in terms of maintaining the Mayumi Seshimo balance between work and childcare. However, in my own case, I think it should be possible to overcome the problem through consultation with my supervisor and colleagues, and with the Day-care Center. 5 Tamron CSR Report 2016 ISO26000-6.3 Human Rights / 6.4 Labour practices Balance Work and Childcare overseas to deliver products and services that meet customer needs to customers all over the world. Tamron is striving to position itself as a company that is a great place to work, with fair, equitable that invigorate employees and fill them with the desire to do their utmost. Support to help employees balance Main Benefits Programs for Childcare and Nursing Care (Japan) work and childcare Program Term Overview With the growing concern that Japan may not have a large enough Parental Until the child turns 1 An employee can take leave to workforce in the future, more and more importance is being attached leave (Extendable up to 14 months of age) care for a child. to the need to create a society in which men participate more fully in U p to th e day th e child tu rns An employee can take leave if childcare and women find it easier to work. Approximately 70% of Tamron’ Extended 18 months of age, or April 15 of certain circumstances apply, such parental the year after the child turns 1, as being unable to find a place at s overseas workforce is female, and 20% of the company’ s workforce in leave whichever is longer a day-care center. Japan. Particularly given the fact that around 50% of Tamron’ s female employees in Japan are in their 30s, it is vitally important to put in place Until the child begins elementary school An employee can take paid leave Child care (Up to 5 days per year) an environment in which it is easy for women to come back to work for a child care, vaccinations or leave (10 days if the employee has two or health checkup for a child. more children) after getting married and having children. To this end, Tamron has put in place support systems to help employees balance their work and For an employee looking af ter a ch il d i n t h e fo u r t h g ra d e i n An employee can shorten their their lives, so that they can continue to work for the company, and these Reduced elementary school or younger, up working day by up to two hours working until April 30 of the school year in as long as they work at least six systems are adjusted as necessary (see table on right). In FY2015, Tamron hours which the child becomes a fourth hours. revised its shorter working hours system for employees with childcare grader in elementary school responsibilities, extending the period for which this system can be used An employee can take leave to until the end of April in the year in which an employee’s child is in the 4th Nursing care Up to a maximum of 93 days provide nursing care to an elderly leave family member in need. grade in elementary school. The support system to help employees balance their work and their private lives is being deployed not only in Japan, but at Tamron’ s overseas Number of Employee Taking Paid Parental Leave1 factories, so that employees can achieve the right balance between their 200 （employees） work responsibilities and their childcare responsibilities. Within Japan, 160 Japan Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. (China) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 111 100% of Tamron employees who give birth make use of the maternity 120 59 leave system immediately prior to and after childbirth, as well as the 80 65 76 childcare care leave system, and eventually return to work. 60 3 46 40 30 8 In addition, in order to reduce the amount of time that employees 0 10 10 24 25 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 spent working in excess of their scheduled working hours, Tamron has introduced a system whereby, in principle, every day is a“no-overtime Number of Reduced Working Hours for Childcare2 day”(at Tamron’ s head office), and has adjusted the annual paid leave （employees） system so that paid leave can be taken in hourly units. These measures 80 Japan Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. (China) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. 50 are compliant with the requirements of the Act on Advancement of 60 Measures to Support Raising Next-generation Children . In FY2015, Tamron 40 5 24 23 was awarded the“Kurumin Mark”(which is given to companies that are 20 14 21 6 6 6 7 9 13 deemed to be taking proactive measures to promote a childcare-friendly 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 workplace). Furthermore, Saitama Prefecture (where Tamron’s head 1. The ‌ name of the parental leave system varies from country to country. Employees office is located) has certified Tamron as being a at Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. in China are entitled to 98 days’leave after “Diversified Work-style Promoting Enterprise,” childbirth; employees at Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. can take up to six months’ leave before and after childbirth. with the presentation of a Platinum Award (the ‌In Japan, male employees who have just become a father can take a short period of highest level of award under this program). parental leave of up to one month; a total of 7 male employees took advantage of this system in FY2014, and 13 in FY2015. It is also worth noting that, over the past five years, more than 2% of the people employed 2. ‌Both Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. and Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Co., Ltd. have a reduced working hours system in place that makes it possible for female employees by Tamron within Japan have been people with with young children under the age of 1 to benefit from shorter working hours. disabilities; in FY2015, the percentage rose to 2.4%, higher than the statutory requirement of 2%. Human Resources Cultivation System Tamron has established a training regimen for newly-hired employees with people from the optical technology to help cultivate self-disciplined human resources who are eager to take departments, I can communicate with them on new challenges. This training regimen comprises rank-based training more smoothly.” programs implemented periodically to help employees acquire the In the future, Tamron will continue to specific skills needed for their jobs, as well as occupation-based training implement training aimed at effectively programs that teach the required competencies to engineers, sales staff strengthening employees’capabilities in and administrative staff, and company-wide training programs that seek to areas where employees have expressed a improve individual skills. need for enhanced training provision. The Optical Basics Training Course With regard to occupation-based training programs, in line with the company’ s desire to expand the scope of training for personnel in Training System Diagram in progress administrative departments, in FY2015 a new Optical Basics Training Rank-based training Occupation-based training Company-wide training programs programs programs Course was launched, with the goal of ensuring that all Tamron employees can acquire the necessary basic knowledge of optics. The Course was Training for sales implemented using a classroom learning format, with approximately Manager training Training for On-the-job 70 employees from administrative departments at Tamron’ s head office E-learning and administrative attending lectures on basic optical knowledge (such as lens properties Training for mid-career and other optical properties, focal length, etc.) and on Tamron’ s unique hires engineers training staff technology. Participants’comments about the course were very positive, Training for new e.g.“The course made it easy to understand the basics, and I now have graduate hires a greater interest in optical design,” “Now, when I have to work together Tamron CSR Report 2016 6 ISO26000-6-2 Organizational Governance Relationship with Shareholders and Investors We are committed to fair and transparent management practices as well as enhancing corporate value, which is achieved by strengthening corporate governance to build up trust with shareholders and investors. Corporate Governance Basic Policy Corporate Governance Structure Ever since the company was first established, we at Tamron have consistently pursued fair and transparent management practices General Meeting of Shareholders in line with our management philosophy, respecting the rights Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Election/dismissal and equality of our shareholders, and adopting an approach to Board of Auditors corporate governance that emphasizes the maintenance of a (Corporate Auditors and Independent Auditors) Coordination Accounting Auditor good relationship with all stakeholders. Audit Coordination Audit Corporate Governance System Overview Coordination Board of Directors Tamron has employed the Executive Officer System to speed up (Directors and External Directors) decision making and improve efficiencies, which has enabled it President & CEO Internal Audit & Supervision Board to establish a management structure capable of making accurate CSR Committee and strategic decisions. External Directors with expertise in Management Meeting (MAC) Internal Audit their respective fields carefully monitor and advise the company Compliance Committee Executive Oﬃcers regarding its execution of operations from an independent and Each department/subsidiary fair standpoint. At the same time, Independent Auditors with expert knowledge of finance, accounting and legal affairs as well as Corporate Auditors well versed in Tamron’ s operations work together with the Accounting Auditor and Internal Audit & Supervision Board to carry out rigorous audit programs. Tamron appoints 15 Directors, of which 2 are External Directors, and 4 Shareholder and Investor Engagement Corporate Auditors, of which 3 are Independent Auditors. Tamron respects the principles of the Corporate Governance In FY2015, Tamron held two earnings presentations, as well as Code which came into effect in June 2015, and is working to hosting meetings and plant tours for institutional investors and achieve a further strengthening of corporate governance, along securities analysts. with continued growth and the enhancement of corporate value In addition, Tamron continues to participate in conferences for over the medium and long term. domestic and international investors organized by securities companies. We also held five briefings for individual investors in （1)Board of Directors FY2015. Meetings of the Board of Directors are held twice a month, in We are committed to actively engaging our shareholders and principle, attended by all Directors and Corporate Auditors, for investors through dynamic reviewing the execution of duties by the Directors and deciding IR activities. 1 on important issues as set forth in the basic policy of the company and related laws and regulations. In FY2015, the Board 1.‌IR stands for“investor relations,” and means the implementing of of Directors met 26 times. activities to provide shareholders and investors with the (2)Board of Auditors information they need to make investing decisions. The Board of Auditors audits the processes of decision making by the Board of Directors and the execution of duties of Directors by An earnings presentation in progress attending the Board of Director meetings and checking approval documents. The Board of Auditors meets monthly, in principle. In FY2015, the Board of Auditors met 15 times. Compliance (3)Executive Officer System Compliance promotion activities are carried out through the Compliance Committee (comprising members of Tamron’ s Tamro n has employed the E xecutive O f ficer System to executive management team), which meets periodically, and the ensure separation between management and the execution Compliance Promotion Committee (reporting to the Compliance of operations. Executive Officers carry out their duties and Committee, with members selected from each business division), responsibilities following the basic policy determined by the which meets on a monthly basis. Board of Directors. In addition, guidance and promotion is provided for compliance (4)Internal Control through Committee Meetings activities in Tamron’ s overseas subsidiaries. We regularly hold monthly management (MAC) meetings •Explanation of laws relating to Tamron’ s business activities and attended by all Directors, full-time Corporate Auditors and other related information (covering intellectual property rights, Executive Officers to discuss management issues and respond to competition law, anti-corruption regulations, regulations to the fast-changing management environment. prevent insider trading, etc.) •K eeping the management teams of Tamro n’ s overseas (5)Accounting Auditor subsidiaries informed of developments relating to laws and Tamron has concluded an auditing agreement with Wako Audit regulations, etc. (including the anti-corruption legislation Corporation and receives audit from this firm in its capacity as enacted in the U.S.A. and U.K., etc.) accounting auditor. •Surveys of compliance status in overseas subsidiaries 7 Tamron CSR Report 2016 ISO26000 6.6 Fair Operating Practices Relationship with Business Partners Tamron respects human rights, ensures compliance with laws and regulations, and establishes good relationships with business partners to grow and contribute to society together. Summary of Activities in FY2015 Tasks for FY2016 ● Continued rigorous management of chemical substances ● Further reinforce CSR procurement with business partners ● Continued investigations in relation to conflict minerals Business Partner Accreditation CSR Efforts in the Supply Chain Program In order to contribute to society in accordance with its CSR policy, Working Together with Business Partners to Tamron works together with its business partners to comply with Manage Chemical Substances laws and regulations, and continually aspires to serve as a partner Tamron maintains a policy of avoiding the use of harmful chemical that delivers high quality products and services. For product and substances in the materials used to make its products. We use a environmental quality1, we conduct surveys to check the status of system to check substances regulated by the EU’ s RoHS Initiative our suppliers through on-site or paper-based audits in accordance based on environment data obtained from our suppliers 2 . We with our assessment standards. continue to internally implement analytical work with advanced In 2008 we commenced CSR procurement and requested suppliers equipment including Inductivity Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission comply with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure we Spectrometry (ICP-AES) and Gas Chromatography Mass Spectrometry do business only with companies that act in accordance with these (GC-MS) to ensure only the safest most secure products are delivered standards. Going forward, we will continue to re-examine ways of to customers. We also manage substances with our business confirming suppliers’compliance with the code of conduct. suppliers in accordance with REACH, with relevant information in turn 1. “Environmental quality”means regulating the use of harmful chemical substances passed on to customers and consumers. in products our suppliers deliver to us to ensure they fall below the threshold level stated in our standards. In July 2019, the scope of application of RoHS is being expanded from the original six substances – Cadmium, Lead, Hexavalent chromium, Procedures for Selecting Suppliers Mercury, Polybrominated biphenyls (PBB), and Polybrominated Request the supplier to make eﬀorts in CSR, covering diphenyl ether (PBDE) – to include four additional substances, all of aspects including labour, health and safety, environmental protection, management and operational mechanisms and which are types of phthalates: Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), ethical management, in addition to promoting environmental and quality assurance Benzyl butyl phthalate (BBP), Dibutyl phthalate (DBP), and Diisobutyl phthalate (DIBP). In order to ensure conformity with the expanded Check whether the supplier complies with the scope of RoHS, new analysis methods were put in place by Tamron Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct. in 2015. Tamron is also establishing the frameworks and systems needed to ensure compliance with other new regulations relating to Periodical evaluation Carry out quality audits, environmental No, the control of harmful chemical substances that may be established quality audits, process audits and paperrequires improvein different countries around the world in the future. based audits ment 2.Such data and documents as the certificate of non-use of harmful chemical Yes, conforms to standards substances, ICP analysis data and MSDS Accreditation as business partner CSR management implemented by business Response to Conflict Minerals partners following the Tamron Supplier Codes of Conduct A portion of the minerals (tantalite, tin, gold and tungsten) produced in the Democratic People’ s Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries of Africa are being used to fund armed militants that violate human rights and cause environmental destruction. History of Our Activities These minerals are now collectively referred to as conflict minerals 2008 Requested ‌ all business partners to comply with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct and are regulated. Tamron has declared a policy of not using 2009 Requested ‌ respective business partners to perform selfillegal conflict minerals related to the violation of human rights or evaluations(questionnaire) environmental destruction in order to fulfill its corporate social 2010 Introduced ‌ case examples on particularly important aspects such as“occupational health and safety”and“human rights responsibilities within its procurement activities.3 protection” In FY2015, Tamron asked 283 of the company’ s suppliers to complete 2011 Held ‌ CSR Procurement Workshops for all business partners in surveys relating to conflict minerals. All of the suppliers responded, Japan and abroad 2012 Continued ‌ to work on improving methods for checking submitting completed questionnaires in relation to a total of 6,097 business partner compliance with the Tamron Supplier Code of component items. Conduct The survey results showed that Tamron does not make use of Held internal training sessions and in-house hearings 2013 Prepared ‌ questionnaire (draft) conflict minerals that are used to fund armed militants. 2014 Revised ‌ questionnaire (draft) and examined ways of using the 3. Please see our corporate website to view our policy on conflict minerals. questionnaire WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/en/envi/top/index.html 2015 Administered ‌ questionnaire (targeting those suppliers that were not covered by the 2009 questionnaire) Tamron CSR Report 2016 8 Relationship with Customers Tamron is committed to contributing to society by supplying customers with safe, unique and quality products and services, putting the highest priority on satisfying customers, dealers and OEM customers. Summary of Activities in FY2015 Tasks for FY2016 ● Developed lenses with their own unique character ● Create unique products that customers appreciate ● ‌Prepared for the adoption of components that make use ● ‌Promote environmentally-conscious design, e.g. through of recycled materials the use of recycled materials Tamron Products Familiar to All Photographic We leverage our optical technologies and imaging to create many eyes of industry. culture Contributing to the propagation and development of photographic culture and imaging technologies Daily life ・Lenses for DSLR cameras Manufacturing ・Lens units for video cameras ・Lens units for compact digital cameras Contributing to safety and Supporting factory automation Contributing to our economy, society and security in everyday life and quality enhancement environment with eyes for industry ・Lens units for security cameras (including infrared) ・Industrial lenses ・Security cameras ・Lenses for automotive applications Developing Unique Photographic Lenses Appraisals of Tamron’ s Products The SP35mm F/1.8 Di VC USD (Model F012) released in 2015 is The SP15-30mm F/2.8 Di VC USD (Model A012) which Tamron a new model in Tamron’ s SP (Super Performance) series, which released in late 2014 is the first3 large-aperture f/2.8 ultra-wideprovides superior optical performance. This fixed focal length angle lens for use in digital single-lens reflex cameras (and which lens is truly revolutionary in terms of its appearance, functionality supports 35mm full-frame format camera bodies) to feature and ease of use. It features a vibration compensation (VC) a vibration compensation (VC) mechanism.1 The Model A012 mechanism1 and ultrasonic silent also incorporates an ultrasonic silent drive (USD)2 as well as an drive (USD)2 and boasts a minimal XGM lens4 and eBAND coating.5 This advanced technology gives focal length of just 0.2m; overall, the Model A012 superb imaging this is a lens with truly outstanding performance throughout the entire imaging performance. zoom range; this out standing performance won the Model A012 the EISA Award. Model F012 Model A012 Lens Awards Category Model Award Awarding Organization Imaging EISA Award A012 European Imaging and Sound Association (Europe) (Photographic lens) European DSLR Zoom Lens 2015-2016 6 1.VC stands for Vibration Compensation, which helps prevent blurry images. Tamron lenses for Sony cameras do not offer Tamron’ s VC mechanism because Sony includes an imagine stabilizing mechanism in the body of its DSLR cameras. 2.USD stands for Ultrasonic Silent Drive, which is essentially an ultrasonic motor that converts ultrasonic vibrations into torque, which makes it possible to focus faster with greater precision. 3.Comparison limited to large-aperture f/2.8 ultra-wide-angle lenses for use in digital single-lens reflex cameras (and which support 35mm full-frame format camera bodies). (Correct as of August 16, 2015, to the best of Tamron’ s knowledge) 4.XGM (eXpanded Glass Molded Aspherical) lens: The XGM lens is capable of efficiently correcting aberrations in the angle of view (which can change significantly with an ultra-wide-angle zoom lens). This specialized glass element is also very effective at minimizing distortion and enhancing the sharpness of an image at its periphery. 5.T he acronym eBAND coating standard for Extended Bandwidth & Angular-Dependency Coating, which is a proprietarily developed membrane that makes images clearer and more complete. It uses a nanotechnology-based coating technique to form a multicoated surface with a super-low refractive index membrane to significantly reduce unwanted reflections compared to multicoated surfaces made from resins. 6.Tamron lenses have received an EISA award for ten consecutive years since 2006. EISA is an acronym for European Imaging and Sound Association. This organization sponsors the EISA Awards along with editors and senior engineers from related media including photography, video, sound, and mobile electronics. Every year the awards recognize leading products in the fields of photography and audio visual media. 9 Tamron CSR Report 2016 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Relationship with Customers Lenses Underpinning Safety and Security Lenses for automobiles Tamron manufactures and markets lens units (including infrared Automotive lenses for rear-view cameras, birds-eye cameras models) for indoor and outdoor security cameras, making safety and etc. are mainly used for confirming by sight. We are also and security an important pillar of its businesses. In recent developing sensing type lenses for use in emergency brake assist years we have also focused on the development of lenses for systems and lane keeping assist systems. automobiles. International demand for automotive cameras is expected to Automotive lenses are largely separated into two categories. continue growing in the future given the KT Act1 in the United First is lenses used in traffic monitoring systems installed at States and Europe’ s Euro NCAP 2. Tamron will continue to points above roads. The other is automotive camera lenses support the safety of vehicles by creating high quality, high installed on vehicles. performance lenses tailored to each individual application. As regards traffic monitoring lenses, Tamron has developed a zoom lens that can be equipped with autofocus and remote 1.Kids and Transportation Act. This law requires that all new cars come equipped with operation capabilities (making it possible to flexibly monitor a rear-view monitor by the year 2014. different types of road at different distances); the image 2.European New Car Assessment Programme. This program refers to automobile safety testing performed in Europe. processing technology is designed so that users can extract the information they need for specific applications. Camera lenses for detecting pedestrians at night Lenses for sensor cameras (including infrared camera lenses) (lane-keeping assist systems, etc.) Headlight lenses Lenses for surrounding vicinity surveillance monitors (light dispersal) (for rear, side and bird s eye views) Monitoring and Security Camera Lenses Infrared Camera Lens Development As the security camera market has grown in recent years, the Tamron is applying its existing technology to the development of competition to develop ever more advanced technology has infrared lenses (for the non-visible light region). grown steadily more intense, and many manufacturers are now Demand for long-wave infrared (LWIR) lenses is growing steadily developing cameras equipped with high-pixel-count image in the surveillance and disaster response fields. The 35-105mm sensors. F/1.6 (ModelLVZ3X3516N/A) is the world’ s lightest4 optical 3X Tamron’ s 1/2.7 2.8 – 9.8mm f/1.6 (Model DF023) was developed zoom lens for use with VGA (17μ m) pixel pitch detectors. The to meet customers’need for this type of camera; this is a newlightweight, compact format ensures good compatibility with generation zoom lens with high pixel count (4K). 3 The Model existing equipment (which has tended to be a problem for lenses DF023 also supports imaging in the near-infrared region; the of this type in the past). higher resolution that this model provides means that the In the near infrared camera lens segment, starting with the physical characteristics of people and objects can be captured Model DF023 outlined above, Tamron has developed a wide in more detail, and sharp images can be achieved even when range of IP/CCTV lenses that support both near infrared imaging covering a large area. and visible light region imaging, helping to make society safer 3. “4 K”is a general term for imaging systems with resolution in the region of 4,000 and give people greater peace of mind. (horizontal) by 2,000 (vertical) pixels; this is four times the pixel count of Full HD, the current mainstream specification. 4.C omparison limited to LWIR zoom lenses with a focal length of at least 100mm. (Correct as of December, 2015, to the best of Tamron’ s knowledge) Model DF023 Model LVZ3X3516N/A Tamron CSR Report 2016 10 Evaluation by Distributors and OEM Customers Enhancing our Technological Development Capabilities Every year, we ask our OEM customers and Tamron brand Successful development of high-resolution lenses distributors to complete a customer satisfaction survey. In with wide-angle zoom (Japan) FY2015, the overall score received was 4.9 points, which met To keep pace with the trend towards higher pixel count in digital cameras, the specified target, but was 0.3 points down compared to Tamron is developing the SP series1, which embodies advanced design FY2014. With the exception of“Response to Complaints,”where concepts. there was a slight improvement compared to last year, all of the The development of the Model A012 SP lens that Tamron released last year other seven items had lower scores than in FY2014. Comments was accompanied by the development and volume production of the new received from customers and distributors suggested that Tamron XGM lens (eXpanded Glass Molded Aspherical lens), which provides effective should“try to ensure a stable volume of output during the early correction for aberrations2, making it possible to achieve high resolution stages of mass production,”and“endeavor to instill Tamron comparable to a fixed focal length lens in an ultra-wide-angle zoom lens. products with new appeal.”Tamron appreciates customers’and The XGM represents a direct, effective solution to problems that have affected distributors’frank comments, which reflect their desire to see lens forming methods in the past: the tendency for the precision with which Tamron do better in the future, and will take their suggestions the shape of the lens is reproduced to decline over time, and for the forming into account. process to take progressively longer to complete. To create the XGM lens, new forming machines were introduced, an even higher level of precision was Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey in 2015 incorporated into the dies used for lens forming, and the methods used for (OEM Customers and Distributors) lens forming were adjusted. Dedicated Tamron personnel were assigned to The survey was conducted Delivery FY2014 implement continued, ongoing quality at 18 companies. 6.0 FY2015 improvement, making it possible to Handling of 5.0 achieve the desired level of precision. repairs Cost 4.0 In the future, Tamron will be aiming to 3.0 realize a further enhancement of its technology development capabilities, 2.0 in order to create high-quality products 1.0 that meet customers’needs. (Model A012) XGM lens Response to 0.0 Communications 1.‌The SP (Super Performance) lens series is a range of Tamron lenses characterized complaints by superior performance based on demanding design specifications. In deciding on the design criteria for the SP series, the specification and the image quality were prioritized. The SP series embodies revolutionary, high-end design concepts unconstrained by cost considerations; the SP series has been positioned as Tamron’ s “concept models.” 2.‌Here,“aberration”refers to cases where the basic principle that light coming from a given point which passes through a convex lens should reassemble and form an image at another given point is violated, resulting in gaps, blurring, distortion, etc. Quality Development capability Development of Automation Equipment to Technical capability Enhance Productivity To ensure consistent qualit y and enhance the ef ficiency 1.Very dissatisﬁed 2.Dissatisﬁed 3.Slightly dissatisﬁed of processing operation, starting from FY2013 the Tamron 4.Slighly satisﬁed 5.Satisﬁed 6.Very satisﬁed Technology Development Center has directed efforts to enhance Delivery Cost Communications Development Technical capability capability Quality Response to Handling complaints of repairs Overall the level of automation at Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. in FY2014 5.1 4.6 5.5 5.3 5.5 5.1 5.1 5.2 5.2 the areas of processing equipment and inspection equipment, while also working to make the equipment used at Foshan more FY2015 4.8 4.4 4.8 4.7 5.0 4.8 5.2 5.1 4.9 energy-efficient and to enhance the level of digitalization. Gap −0.3 −0.2 −0.7 −0.6 −0.5 −0.3 +0.1 −0.1 −0.3 In FY2015 the“India ink”coating process used to prevent lens reflection was automated, simplifying the tasks that operatives Expanding After-sales Services Globally need to perform, and ensuring that high quality standards can Tamron is continuing to implement a policy of achieving a be maintained efficiently. three-day turnaround time for product repairs anywhere in the In addition,“lateral expansion”has been carried out at the world. To further enhance the consistency of after-sales service Foshan plant, with the more widespread adoption of existing provision worldwide, Tamron holds periodic training activities types of automation equipment for new applications. at locations in various countries focusing on repair techniques, In FY2016, the main focus will be on the development of besides holding training courses at Tamron’ s head office in automated conveying equipment, automated connecting Japan and striving to share market trend and service information devices, semi-automated reflection-type connecting devices, between business locations. etc., pursuing further enhancements in automation. We also offer free cleaning of Tamron brand lenses at major photography trade shows held around the world; the response to this service has been very positive, with more and more people taking advantage of it, and in many cases it has also led to new orders being placed. Within Japan, we have launched the Tamron Lens Customer Service Center to handle customers’telephone inquiries. In the future, Tamron will be working to expand membership of the Tamron Lens Life Membership Club (members of which receive an e-newsletter and discounts on repair service) as part of our ongoing commitment to further enhancing customer satisfaction. Automated“India ink”coating machine 11 Tamron CSR Report 2016 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Relationship with Customers Environmentally-Friendly Design Tamron performs product assessments starting from the FY2010, and as of FY2015 we had used a cumulative total of 115 design stage, to ensure that we deliver products that are tons of recycled material (in 5.19 million rear caps). environmentally-friendly. In FY2015, a review of compliance with Lens Assessment Item Table environment-related laws and regulations (such as individual countries’environmental labeling obligations, etc.) was added Evaluation Items to the product assessment procedure. In addition, the frequency １. Extended usage of lens ７. Reduced use of packaging materials of assessment was increased for existing product assessment ８. ‌U s e o f r e c y c l e d m a t e r i a l s f o r items such as extended usage, lightweight design, etc., helping ２. Light weight design packaging materials to increase the accuracy of the assessment results. Of the ３. Reduced volume ９. Product labeling requirements various product assessment items, particular emphasis has ４. Energy efficiency during usage 10. Packaging labeling requirements been placed on effective management of the light weight design 11. Proper ‌ management of controlled and reduced volume items. Environmentally-friendly design ５. Use of recycled materials environmental substances achievements with respect to new models released in FY2015 ６. Ease of disassembly included a 0.3% improvement in light weight design and a 0.5% １.Calculated using production volume from FY2014 comparing conventional models. reduction in volume.1 Tamron has also been implementing 2.For more information about Tamron Eco Label certified products, please visit the effective management of hazardous substances in line with the Tamron website: WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/en/envi/top/index.html company’ s internal Environment-related Substance Management 3.Waste material that occurs when pouring plastic resin during the production process. Regulations, which reflect the requirements of the RoHS directive and the REACH regulation. Tamron products that feature Tamron Eco Label environmentally-friendly design bear the Tamron Eco Label.2 The label was designed to resemble an eye gently looking at our economy, society and environment. In o rd er to re du ce the am ount of waste d eriving fro m The eyebrow symbolizes a flowing stream of air manufacturing processes, the rear caps for Tamron’ s DSLR and water, the pupil represents the green in the earth, and the tree in the pupil stands for our camera lenses are made using 100% recycled plastic runner work for the three Rs of“reduce,” “reuse”and materials. 3 We started using these plastic runner materials in “recycle”. Component Recycling In order to further reduce the generation of waste, Tamron has management criteria and procedures were been implementing activities that emphasize“3R”(Reduce, drawn up (both for in-house operations Reuse, Recycle). In particular, we have been focusing on reducing an d with resp e c t to sup pliers), an d the amount of plastic waste generated, which amounted to over disseminated throughout the company. 200 tons per year; targeting the effective utilization of plastic Starting from FY2016, these recycled runner material 3, Tamron held integrated design, production m a te ri a l s w i l l b e fo r m a l l y a d o p te d technology and production meetings at which new recycling f o r s o m e c o m p o n e n t s o f Ta m ro n ’ s methods were considered. It was decided that, over the period interchangeable lenses for SLR cameras. up to FY2014, as a means of reducing waste while maintaining In the future, Tamron will continue to Components for Which R e c y c l e d M a t e r i a l s a re quality standards and ensuring that product functionality is not promote waste reduction and recycling, Expected to be Used (Filter affected, Tamron would experiment with the adoption of“Preexamining ways in which the scope of Screw Rings) consumer Closed Recycling” 4 , in which recycled materials are utilization of recycled materials can be mixed with non-recycled materials. In FY2015, further evaluation further expanded. was undertaken of the products manufactured using recycled 4. “‌Pre-consumer Closed Recycling”involves the use of recycled material made from waste and surplus material from the production process to create the same type of materials, and after confirming that there were no quality issues, material (or product). V O I C E Interview with Responsible Personnel Wanting to make ef fective use of waste material generated in the manufacturing process as a resource, we explored the possibilities for using recycled material. While we did consider ways of undertaking recycling in-house, we were also able to secure the collaboration of our suppliers; FY2015 was a very busy year, as we rushed to get the necessary systems in place to support practical implementation. The aspect to which we paid most attention was taking measures to ensure that no contaminants get mixed in with the recycled material. Of course, we didn’ t want other types of material to get mixed into the recycled material, but we also created metal removal devices to guard against the risk of metal fragments from the pulverizer getting into it. Currently, some of these functions are still Lead Engineer Manager Manager Quality Assurance Section Design & Engineering Design & Engineering performed manually, but there are plans to improve this by switching over to Owani Plant Dept. Dept. automated systems in the future. Production Management Imaging Products Industrial Optics There have been relatively few examples of the adoption of Pre-consumer & Administration Unit Business Unit Business Unit Closed Recycling method so far; we have viewed the adoption of this Yuya Jin Masaaki Kamoda Naoki Takano approach at Tamron as a challenge, and will be examining ways to expand the scope of application to include other components, and also Tamron’ s overseas factories. Tamron CSR Report 2016 12 Management Systems At Tamron, we strive to enhance our product and service quality while reducing environmental impacts through our integrated management system. Additionally, we ensure the continuity of our business by avoiding various management risks using our risk management system. Integrated Management System Tamron has been awarded blanket ISO 9001 (quality) and ISO Integrated Management Policy 14001 (environment) certification applicable to the entire Tamron As a member of the international optical industry, we will continue Group’ s integrated management system, including Tamron’ s to manufacture products that deliver customer satisfaction and head office and its three factories in Aomori Prefecture, Japan, help achieve our goal of Contributing to Society by Creating as well as Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China. Tamron Optical Eyes for Industry, while being considerate of environmental (Vietnam) is also in the process of securing blanket ISO 9001 conservation. and ISO 14001 certification. Under this integrated management 1. ‌We will supply our customers with high quality and reliable products by using our originality, ingenuity and technology, policy, Tamron aims to continue creating high-quality products pursuing sustainable development with profits arising out of while giving due consideration to environmental issues. Starting customer delight and satisfaction. from 2016, Tamron will be integrating its risk management 2. ‌We will keep abreast of both internal and external issues system (which in the past has been based on ISO 31000) into affecting the company, as well as the needs of employees, the company’ s integrated management system, with the aim of shareholders, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, so making business process implementation even smoother. as to maintain an accurate awareness of risks and opportunities. 3. ‌In running our business, we will comply with all related laws, standards and treaties at home and abroad, respecting the Audit System and Identifying Problems requests and demands made by our customers and the local community. Tamron regularly performs internal quality and environmental 4. ‌We will work on preventing environmental contamination, audits covering the head office and three Aomori plants. reducing CO2 emissions, as well as reducing waste emissions In addition to the internal audit, the Head Office and three and the use of harmful chemicals, while seeking alternatives and Aomori plants audit each other to check their systems and contributing to the safeguarding of biodiversity. 5. ‌We will continue to work on improving the effectiveness of our manufacturing processes. We periodically arrange to receive integrated management system. audits from external audit organizations to maintain certifications 6. ‌To achieve this management policy, we will establish specific while continually improving the integrated management system. objectives and targets, periodically evaluating our progress. As a result of external audits implemented in FY2015, the 7. ‌To enhance recognition of our integrated management, we effectiveness of the policy and management processes adopted will maintain good communications while providing sufficient at our sites was assessed at level-4 on a scale of one to five. education and training to all people working for Tamron. 8. ‌We will closely cooperate with society in all countries and regions where we operate and disclose information to Risk Management stakeholders as necessary on our quality assurance and environment conservation efforts. In the past, Tamron has used a risk management system based 9. ‌To ensure the company’ s smooth operation, without the on the ISO 31000 standard and identification of risks and occurrence of negative impacts on the economy, society or the opportunities through SWOT analysis to build consensus in the environment, we will implement preventative actions to the management review process. Tamron has responded to the maximum extent possible in line with the company’ s Integrated revision of the ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards by merging Management System; in the event that a negative impact does risk management into the company’ s integrated management occur, we will fulfill our responsibility to society by taking prompt action to mitigate the damage and support recovery system; a project has also been launched to bring Tamron’ s efforts, and will also take steps to prevent reoccurrence. existing risk management policy within the scope of the firm’ s December 11, 2015 integrated management policy. Risk identification methods have Integrated Management System Representative also been adjusted in line with the revision of the ISO standards. In this way, Tamron will be able to identify key risks relating to both internal and external issues, and take appropriate action in Integrated Management System Implementation System response. Furthermore, business continuity planning (BCP) has been implemented with respect to Tamron’ s head office and the Representative company’ s three factories in Aomori Prefecture, Japan, with the (President) Quality/Environment necessary systems having already been put in place, and Tamron Committee Consolidated Administration is working to strengthen its crisis management systems so as Manager to be prepared in the event that a major natural disaster does Secretarial Oﬃce (CSR Implementation & Administration Board) occur in the future. Omiya Consolidated Aomori Consolidated Tamron Optical (Foshan) Administration Manager Administration Manager Consolidated Administration Responding to Emergencies Hirosaki, Namioka, and Owani Manager As part of their risk management initiatives, Tamron’ s head Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce (ISO Promotion Oﬃce) (Operation Promotion Section） (ISO Information Management Oﬃce) office and three plants in Aomori Prefecture, as well as Tamron Optical Foshan, hold firefighting drills led by employees, while Specialty committees (Waste Reduction, Eco-friendly Design, CSR Procurement) departments that handle chemicals carry out emergency response drills for chemical spills. Additionally, Tamron’ Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical Head Oﬃce s head office stepped up its initial response capabilities, by Plant Plant Plant (Foshan) Co., Ltd. implementing training on how to start back-up power generators *All our business locations have Integrated Internal Auditors working there, in case of a blackout in accordance with the BCP and by making and Integrated Management Promotion Committee members are active at all changes to its emergency contact system. domestic sites. 13 Tamron CSR Report 2016 ISO26000-6.2 Organizational Governance / 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Management Creating Safe and Comfortable Compliance with Laws and Regulations Workplace Environments In FY2015, Tamron undertook preparations for response measures based In accordance with the company’ s Occupational Health and Safety on the risk assessment under the revised Industrial Safety and Health Law, Regulations, Tamron has established an Occupational Health and and also performed inspections of relevant machinery in accordance with Safety Committee, with patrols being carried out by health and safety the requirements of the Fluorocarbons Emission Control Law. In addition, in administrators to prevent occupational accidents, etc. regard to the REACH regulations (the scope of which has been expanded to In FY2015, there were eight occupational accidents, all of which occurred cover additional substances), Tamron has taken steps to verify the content in Japan, with none occurring in either Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China levels of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC). As a result, Tamron had or Tamron Optical (Vietnam), and five commuting-related accidents, of no incidents relating to compliance with environmental laws and regulations which four took place in Japan, one at Tamron Optical Foshan, and none in FY2015, reflecting our commitment to abiding by the requirements of the at Tamron Optical (Vietnam). The increase in occupational accidents law. within Japan mostly involved injuries from falls, etc., while the increase Having said that, in July 2015 a fire occurred in the cafeteria kitchens in commuting-related accidents mostly related to accidents that took at the Tamron Optical (Foshan) plant in China. The fire was caused by place while commuting by bicycle or motorcycle. We have been working problems with an item of kitchen equipment, along with a shortage of fireto prevent reoccurrence, or the occurrence of other types of accident, by extinguishing equipment. The plant staff responded promptly, and the analyzing the reasons and holding safety seminars to boost awareness. fire was extinguished quickly with very little damage having been caused. Regarding mental health issues, mental health checks are held twice a year. No injuries were caused, and the fire had no negative impact on the In-house seminars are also held in relation to self-care and caring for one’ s environment. Following this incident, the Foshan plant implemented safety direct subordinates; in FY2015, a total of 59 employees participated in these inspections on all of its cooking equipment and fire-extinguishing equipment; seminars. Tamron also works to support employees’health and prevent Tamron has also arranged for regular inspections by external maintenance mental illness by offering health consultations with industrial physicians and service providers, and has stepped up management of these areas. follow-up interviews with personnel department staff. Furthermore, steps have been taken to ensure thorough implementation of These measures have received recognition with the awarding of“Hirosaki the“5S”workplace organization methodology, and employees have been Healthy Enterprise”certification to Tamron’s Hirosaki Plant in November reminded of the correct operating procedures for all equipment. 2015.“Hirosaki Health Enterprise”certification is a program launched by In addition, regarding the incident at Tamron Optical (Foshan) in FY2014 Hirosaki City Government to provide recognition for that involved leakage from a wastewater treatment tank within the plant business enterprises that meet certain conditions in grounds, the equipment has since been updated to enhance its wastewater relation to mental health measures, strategies to protect treatment functionality, to ensure the maintenance of water quality. Rigorous employees from infectious diseases, and strategies management has also been put in place to make sure that sludge and waste to protect employees from passive smoking. In the liquids are properly treated. (For more information about changes in the future, all Tamron sites (including the Hirosaki Plant) will quantity of waste treated, see p. 18 of this report) continue to work actively to improve the Compliance with laws and regulations (including the above-mentioned “Hirosaki Healthy Enterprise” working environment and foster good health. Certificate items) is summarized in the table below. Compliance at Respective Sites Environmental Accounting (Japan) ◎：Compliance ○：Exceeded statutory requirement temporarily In FY2015, total environmental accounting in Japan amounted to △：Request for improvement made by local government investments of 36 million yen and costs of 263.5 million yen. ×：Administrative action as a result of violation of law/regulation The changes in investments and costs related to reducing CO2 Head office Aomori plants Foshan 3 Vietnam 3 emissions (i.e. global environment conservation costs), which is Energy saving (Energy Saving Act) ◎ ◎ ― ― a particularly important item, are shown in the graph below. In CO₂ reduction (Act on Promotion of ◎ ◎ ― ― FY2015, a total of 63.2 million yen was spent on investments Global Warming Countermeasures) and costs associated with reducing CO2 emissions. Normally, Chemical substance management 1 ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ investments and costs of at least 30 million yen are recorded, Air ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ and in the future Tamron will continue working to reduce CO2 Water quality ◎2 ◎ ◎ ◎ emissions. Soil ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ Noise ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ t-CO2/non-consolidated sales(Millions of yen) (Thousands of yen) 322,997 Vibration ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 350,000 0.25 Global 300,000 environment Odor ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 0.20 conservation 250,000 0.19 0.20 costs Costs Occupational health & safety ◎ ◎ ◎ ◎ 200,000 0.17 0.16 0.17 0.15 Global environment conservation 1. Laws ‌ related to managing and investigating chemical substances apply to 150,000 0.10 costs Investments domestic sites; international directives including RoHS and REACH apply to 100,000 64,268 73,256 63,195 CO2 the entire group. 47,366 0.05 50,000 Basic unit 2. ‌Values for groundwater temporarily exceeded certain standards, but our of sales treatment measures prevented contamination from spreading outside our 0 0.00 (Japan) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY facilities. 3. ‌Compliance is evaluated with regards to the laws of China and Vietnam as *Please see past CSR reports for costs prior to FY2015. well as international laws concerning the handling of chemical substances, *T he greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & such as the RoHS Directive and REACH regulations. Reporting Manual Version 4.0 is used for managing medium-term targets with a benchmark year of FY2012. For consistency purposes, this same coefficient has been used to re-calculate basic unit of CO2 emissions from FY2011 to FY2015. Tamron CSR Report 2016 14 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment Relationship with the Environment Tamron is considerate of the environment in all aspects of its business operations and constantly works to be in harmony with the environment. Summary of Activities in FY2015 Tasks for FY2016 ● Implemented environmental management system at ● Examine ways to reduce CO2 emissions further Tamron Optical (Vietnam) ● Reviewed CO2 emissions reduction measures Environmental Impacts In Japan, Tamron carries out design work, creates components for lenses, and these processes produce prototypes and fabricates metal molds at its head office runner materials 1 and other waste. plant located in Saitama Prefecture, while the Namioka Air cargo, marine shipping, and trucks are used to Plant manufactures lenses, the Owani Plant molds plastic transport components and products between plants, components, and the Hirosaki Plant assembles products. which results in CO2 emissions from the burning of fuel. Tamron manufactures parts and assembles products at 1.‌Waste material that occurs when pouring plastic resin during the production process. Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and at Tamron Optical (Vietnam). * About Tamron’ s CO2 emissions reduction performance in FY2014 These sites use electricit y, heav y oil, kerosene and ‌The CO2 emissions given for the Tamron Optical (Foshan) plant in China in the 2015 CSR Report omitted part of the emissions. We offer our sincere apologies for this other energy sources for developing, designing and emission, and present the corrected figures below. manufac tu ring, w hich p ro du ce CO₂. O u r pl ant s in INPUTS OUTPUTS Namio ka , Foshan an d Vietnam al so use water fo r Prior to correction Corrected figures Prior to correction Corrected figures polishing and cleaning lens elements. Electric power 73,917,000 kWh ▶ 79,347,000 kWh Electric power 40,335t-CO2 ▶ 43,321t-CO2 T h e O w a n i P l a n t a n d Ta m r o n O p t i c a l ( F o s h a n ) Total Energy 685,000 GJ ▶ 729,000 GJ Total CO2 emissions 41,294t-CO2 ▶ 44,281t-CO2 manufacture plastic components used to make peripheral I n p u t s（2015） Sites covered Energy Water Transportation energy2 Head oﬃce (including Tokyo Sales Oﬃce and Osaka Sales Oﬃce), the three plants Electric power 82,266,000kWh Clean water 704,000㎥ Diesel 186kℓ in Aomori Prefecture, Tamron Optical Heavy oil 190kℓ Groundwater 145,000㎥ Gasoline 38kℓ (Foshan) and Tamron Optical (Vietnam). Kerosene 11kℓ 2. Data for transportation covers energy Total 849,000㎥ Total 224kℓ Diesel 16kℓ used to transport parts and ﬁnished Gasoline 1kℓ Raw/auxiliary materials products by ground and commercial vehicles connecting Tamron s ﬁve LPG 5,000㎥ Metal (brass and aluminum) satellite oﬃces in Japan and Tamron Natural gas 104,000㎥ Optical (Vietnam). Tamron Optical Glass Total 754,000GJ (Foshan) data covers companyPlastic owned vehicles only. Chemicals (drugs, solvents, and cleaners） Paper Gas (nitrogen, oxygen, and argon) Site coverage: 97% Head oﬃce (including the Tokyo Sales Copy paper 22t Electrical components Oﬃce and Osaka Sales Oﬃce), Tamron s Cardboard three plants in Aomori Prefecture, Japan, the Tamron Optical (Foshan) plant in China, and Tamron Optical (Vietnam). Transportation between Manufacturing of raw materials/ Development, design and components at suppliers production at Tamron factories and distributors Use by customers (logistics/commercial vehicles) O u t p u t s（2015） Reference guideline: CO2 Recycling CO2 emissions during transport2 Manual for Calculating and Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions Ver. 4.0 Electric power 44,963t-CO2 Plastic4 235t Diesel 488t-CO2 Heavy oil 514t-CO2 Cardboard 359t Gasoline 119t-CO2 3.Industrial waste includes 2 tons of Pollutant Released & Transfer Kerosene 28t-CO2 General waste (thermal recycling) 208t Total 607t-CO2 Registered (PRTR) substances. 1 Diesel 42t-CO2 Waste liquid 121t ton of a PRTR substance (xylene) Gasoline 3t-CO2 Waste oil 85t was also released into the LPG 33t-CO2 Metal 183t atmosphere. Natural gas 231t-CO2 Paper 34t 4.The amount of plastics recycled Polishing sludge 10t Total 45,814t-CO2 represented 74t of thermal energy Other 13t and 161t of material. Waste contracted for intermediate processing Total 1,248t Industrial waste3 1,214t General waste 866t Products Total 2,080t Total for products 1,672t 15 Tamron CSR Report 2016 ISO26000-6.5 The Environment Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved In 2015, we worked toward achieving the environmental objectives and targets for the third year of our phase-five environmental protection program, but failed to achieve our CO2 emissions reduction targets. Achievement of Environmental Objectives and Targets in FY2015 The Tamron Group has established a target to reduce its CO2 the Owani Plant; this target was not achieved due to a change in the emissions compared to its benchmark year of FY2012 by 1% per volume of the types of waste plastic that are suitable for recycling. year on average in terms of basic unit per sales1 and also a mediumThe third target was for a reduction in the amount of industrial waste term environmental target to reduce emissions by 7.7% by FY2020. generated at the Tamron Optical (Foshan) plant in China; in regard In FY2015, while the target was to achieve a 3% reduction in CO2 to this target, there was an increase in the amount of recovered emissions (basic unit per sales) compared to FY2012, emissions sludge and the amount of waste liquid processed because of the actually rose by 5.6%. Sales fell in FY2015 compared to FY2014, addition of new processing equipment so as to reduce the chemical while CO2 emissions increased (please see p. 17 of this report for oxygen demand (COD) value after waste-water processing. more data on reducing CO2 emissions and electricity Consumption). In FY2016, Tamron’ s Waste Reduction Sub-committee will handle As regards environmental impacts other than CO2 emissions, matters related to the reduction of industrial waste, while the each Tamron site has set individual targets, because each site Integrated Design, Engineering and Production Sub-committee will manufactures a different category of products. In FY2015 we were address the promotion of environmentally-friendly products. These unable to meet three targets. The first of these was a target for sub-committees manage horizontal targets and carry out their reduction of the amount of waste plastic generated by the Mold & activities through the manufacturing process. Tooling Technology Center at Tamron’ s head office; this target was The organizational chart for each sub-committee is provided in the not achieved due to a 2.4-fold increase in the quantity of plastic Integrated Management System Implementation System diagram on formed resulting from a change in operational utilization. The page 13 of this report. second target was the material recycling2 rate for waste plastics at FY2013 to FY2020 Mid-term Environmental Targets Progress in FY2014 and FY2015 and Targets for 2016 Reduction FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 rate of CO2 7.7％ CO2 reduction target 2% reduction 3% reduction 4% reduction emissions 1% reduction per basic Average annual reduction of 1% reduction (versus FY2012 basic unit of sales; cumulative annual average) (approx.) (approx.) (approx.) unit of sales Results3 3.6% reduction 0.3% reduction4 5.6% increase − FY2012 FY2020 (benchmark year) (mid-term target year) Status ○ × × − Environmental Targets Achieved in FY2015 Environmental targets FY2015 targets FY2015 results Status Head Office Waste plastics volume 5% reduc18% increase × (Mold & Tooling tion vs. 2014 (basic unit of sales) Technology Material recycling rate for waste Center) 47.3％ ○ plastics 35% Reduce industrial Hirosaki Plant : 50% Hirosaki Plant : 51.3% ○ waste 3 Aomori plants Namioka Plant : 25% Namioka Plant : 43.2% ○ Owani Plant : 6% Owani Plant : 4.2% × Industrial Waste Reduced by 2% Tamron Optical compared to 2014 (basic unit of 98% increase × (Foshan) sales) ・‌Promoted environmentally-friendly designs Light・‌Promoted environmentally-friendly Promote weight: 0.3% reduction, Compact:0.5% reducdesigns environmentallyAll sites tion (compared to conventional models; calcu△ ・‌Incidents of environmental nonfriendly design lated based on 2015 production volume) conformity: 0 ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity: 0 Environmental Targets for FY2016 Environmental targets FY2016 targets Head Office (Mold & Waste plastics volume 3% reduction vs. FY2015 (basic unit of sales) Tooling Technology Center) Material recycling rate for waste plastics 40％ Reduce industrial Material recycling rate for waste plastics Hirosaki Plant :50% waste 3 Aomori Plants Namioka Plant :25% Owani Plant :6% Tamron Optical (Foshan) Industrial Waste Reduce by 2% compared to FY2015 (basic unit of sales) Promote environmentally・Promote environmentally-friendly designs All sites friendly products5 ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity: 0 Total CO₂ emissions (t-CO₂) 1. Basic unit per sales： Consolidated sales (million yen) 2. Material ‌ recycling refers to the collection and utilization of used products and waste generated from production processes as raw materials to make new products. Tamron recycles runner materials as waste plastics and prioritizes material recycling over thermal recycling so that recycled materials can be reused offsite. The material recycling ratio of waste plastics indicates the percentage for which material recycling was carried out compared to the total amount of waste plastics. 3. ‌The greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 4.0 is used for managing medium-term targets with a benchmark year of FY2012. 4. The reduction in CO2 emissions in FY2014 was revised downwards from 7.0% to 0.3%. 5. Promoting lightweight, compact designs and the use of recycled materials in line with our product assessment regulations Tamron CSR Report 2016 16 ISO26000-6.5 The Environment Reducing CO2 Emissions and Electricity Consumption Tamron strives to reduce CO2 emissions and electricity consumption at the company’ s plants using its integrated management system. Breakdown of CO2 emissions Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions As regards the sources of CO2 emissions (excluding distribution In FY2015, Tamron established a CO2 Emissions Reduction and logistics) from Tamron’ s head office, the three plants in Committee, focused mainly on Tamron’ s head office and the Aomori Prefecture, Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and Tamron three plants in Aomori Prefecture. The Committee reviews Optical (Vietnam), electricity usage accounts for 98.1%, followed and supervises the implementation of measures to reduce by heavy oil at 1.1%. Given this mix, our energy saving activities CO2 emissions by making improvements to production in focus on reducing electricity consumption. Tamron factories and to equipment utilization, and also works closely with Tamron’ s overseas factories. The visualization of electric power usage, which involves monitoring actual Electricity Heavy oil Natural gas and others electricity consumption for each individual item of equipment, constitutes the starting point for effective CO2 emissions reduction. In FY2015, the Committee began the process of evaluating a switchover to energy-saving equipment to Natural gas support the adopting of an electric power usage visualization Heavy oil and others system that will clarify exactly how much electric power each 1.1% 0.8% item of equipment and each process uses. In FY2016, Tamron will be adopting a streamlined electric power management s e n s o r, to i m p l e m e n t Electricity measurement and analysis of 98.1% electric power consumption by key items of equipment and key processes, and to estimate how reductions in Trends in CO₂ Emissions power usage can be made Over the past five years, CO2 emissions from Tamron’ s T h e m e a s u r e s t a k e n t o Streamlined electric power management sensor head office, the three plans in Aomori Prefecture, Tamron r e d u c e CO 2 e m i s s i o n s i n (Being used to measure the electric power consumption of the washing equipment at the Optical (Foshan) in China and Tamron Optical (Vietnam) FY2015 are outlined below. Namioka Plant) have been on the rise, and in FY2015 the total volume of emissions from the company rose by 3% compared to Main CO2 Emissions Reduction Measures Implemented in FY2015 FY2014. Viewed by geographic location, our sites in Japan Reduction in Site Name Measure Emissions (t-CO2) saw a 7% increase, while Tamron Optical (Foshan) saw a 1% decrease (resulting from a fall in annual output), and Implementing demand control for air conditioning units 37.0 Head Tamron Optical (Vietnam), which began operation in 2013, Office Replacing clean room lighting with LED lights 1.8 saw a 21% increase. Overall, CO2 emissions (basic unit of Hirosaki sales) rose by 6% compared to FY2014. Plant Replacement of transformers 5.5 In FY2016, we will examine ways to make energy saving Setting fluorescent lights in corridors to Tamron improvements at the three plants in Aomori Prefecture Optical automatically switch off when not needed 5.0 (with some lights that were previously on 24 hours a day changed to only being on 14 hours a day) through the use of electricity consumption“ visualization” (Foshan) (in China) Switching over to LED lights (1,500 lights) 6.6 and other methods (for more details, see the“Measures to Reduce CO2 Emissions”section on this page). Tamron Reducing the number of fluorescent Optical ― (Vietnam) lights in shared spaces Head oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical (Foshan) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Basic unit1 45,814 45,000（t-CO₂) 44,281 7,084 39,744 Tamron regularly holds environment-related training. In FY2015, we 40,000 38,826 5,848 t-CO2/ 35,147 2,504 net sales provided training for 46 members of the Integrated Management 35,000 (Millions of yen) Promotion Committee, focusing in international trends and legislation in 30,000 0.637 0.60 relation to global warming. 0.601 0.603 0.601 25,000 0.581 0.50 In addition, the third Friday of every month has been designated as No My Car Day, and certain days in the summer and winter are designated as 20,000 25,201 27,492 27,545 28,229 27,826 0.40 Eco Life Days (an initiative launched by Saitama Prefectural Government), 15,000 0.30 as part of the company’ s efforts to raise environmental awareness among 727 all of the executive officers and employees at the head office. 10,000 653 671 640 636 0.20 5,452 6,478 5,149 5,384 5,965 Tamron received praise from 5,000 1,104 1,207 1,143 1,200 1,238 0.10 Saitama City Government for 0 2,737 2,922 2,732 2,980 3,065 the positive contribution made 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY by the company’ s restrictions on commuting by car in FY2015. 1. ‌*The greenhouse gas coefficient from the Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 4.0 is used for managing medium-term targets with a CO2 emissions were reduced benchmark year of FY2012. For consistency purposes, this same coefficient has been by a total of 13 t-CO2 through used for this report to re-calculate basic unit of CO2 emissions from FY2010 onward. 2. ‌The reduction in CO2 emissions at Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China in FY2014 was Tamron’ s implementation of the revised from 25,242 t-CO2 to 28,229 t-CO2, and CO2 emissions (basic unit of sales) No My Car Day and Eco Life Day Tamron was a recipient of the Smart Mobility were revised from 0.561 t-CO2 / net sales (million yen) to 0.601 t-CO2 net sales (million yen). programs in 2015. award 17 Tamron CSR Report 2016 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment Reducing Waste and Water Consumption Tamron is working to reduce waste and water consumption by improving the way in which business division operates. Waste Reduction Initiatives Measures Taken at Tamron Optical (Vietnam) The total amount of waste generated in FY2015 by the Tamron Tamron has been applying the know-how accumulated through Group as a whole, including Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China the Integrated Management System to Tamron Optical (Vietnam). and Tamron Optical (Vietnam), rose by 33% compared to Tamron Optical (Vietnam) has been implementing environmental FY2014. This was mainly attributable to an increase in the activities similar to those undertaken at Tamron’ s other plants, amount of recovered sludge and waste liquids processed and is working to reduce the burden on the environment. at Tamron Optical (Foshan) (thanks to improvements in the waste water processing facilities there), and an increase in the Measures to Reduce the Burden on the Environment amount of food consumed at the plant due to an adjustment [CO2 Emissions] in employees’food allowance, etc., which caused the overall The CO2 emissions of Tamron Optical (Vietnam) rose by 21% amount of waste generated at Tamron Optical (Foshan) to rise in FY2015 compared to FY2014; however, the plant achieved by 42%. its basic unit target in FY2015, and emissions are now starting In FY2016, the Waste Reduction Subcommit tee and the to trend downwards. Vietnam is a tropical country where air Integrated Design, Engineering and Production Subcommittee conditioning units need to be switched on a lot of the time; in will be working to reduce the amount of waste generated. FY2016, the temperature to which air conditioning units are Head oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical (Foshan) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) set will be adjusted. In addition, the plant is in the process of Recycling ratio of industrial waste (Japan) （ t） 99.9 （%） replacing fluorescent lamps with LED lights. 2,200 100 99.7 99.9 99.9 2,080 [Waste] 2,000 99.2 161 95 1,800 The amount of waste generated at Tamron Optical (Vietnam) 1,800 1,729 90 rose by 64% in FY2015 compared to the previous year. This was 1,600 1,516 1,569 98 85 because the plant’ s output rose by 140%. 1,400 It is only three years since Tamron Optical (Vietnam) was 80 1,200 established, and waste data monitoring only began in FY2014. 75 1,000 1,262 1,316 1,045 999 1,417 Initially, waste disposal was undertaken without sorting general 70 waste, but in FY2015 the plant began transferring waste 800 65 cardboard and paper to specialist firms for recycling. 600 73 89 57 49 61 60 [Water Consumption] 400 202 214 206 247 263 The water consumption of Tamron Optical (Vietnam) rose by 200 110 97 123 90 93 55 70 92 89 86 85 69% in FY2015 compared to FY2014. This rise was related to 0 50 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY an increase in the amount of water needed for lens processing operations and to a 30% rise in the number of employees at the plant (which grew by 300). Trends in Water Consumption While the amount of water consumption depends to a The total water consumption of the Tamron Group as a whole in considerable extent on lens production volume, Tamron Optical FY2015, including Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and Tamron (Vietnam) is using training programs, posters etc. to raise Optical (Vietnam), rose by 10% compared to FY2014. This was employee awareness of the need to save water, so as to help mainly attributable to the ramping up of production at Tamron reduce overall water consumption. Optical (Vietnam), where output rose by 140% compared to the previous year and water consumption increased by 69% as a result. Tamron will be working to enhance employees’ Improvements to Logistics awareness of the need to save water, and striving to reduce water consumption (for more detailed information, see the As part of our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions in the logistics Measures Taken at Tamron Optical (Vietnam) on this page). process, Tamron is working to make more effective use of bonded warehouses for direct shipment (particularly for Head oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical (Foshan) Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Basic unit (1,000 m3)/ products manufactured at Tamron’ s overseas plants) and is 1,000 969 striving to shorten shipment routes. In FY2015, in order to thousand facilitate shipment from Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and 900 852 849 m3 / sales from Tamron Optical (Vietnam) to Tamron’ s overseas subsidiaries 831 (billion yen) 800 769 66 16 in Europe and North America and to customers in China, Taiwan 39 and South Korea, Tamron switched over from shipping via Narita 700 15.1 14 14.6 Airport in Japan to direct shipment via Hong Kong. As a result, 600 12 we have been able to reduce the volume of product being 12.1 shipped to Japan, achieving a reduction in CO2 emissions of 273 11.8 500 10 10.4 t-CO2 in FY2015.1 400 671 789 650 533 566 8 In the future, we will be working to develop direct shipment for our distributors in Southeast Asia as well. In particular, with 300 6 respect to shipments from Tamron Optical (Vietnam), we are 200 0.5 considering shifting from shipment by air to delivery by truck for 0.4 0.8 0.5 0.6 4 shipments to neighboring countries in Southeast Asia. 100 165 162 162 179 199 2 1.In order to realize the reduction in shipments by air from Hong Kong to Narita 7 9 7 10 7 11 7 10 8 9.9 Airport, calculations were performed based on the weight of the goods 0 transported. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FY Tamron CSR Report 2016 18 Relationship with Society Tamron supports activities that contribute to photographic and imaging culture, while its employees are actively involved in their local communities, which helps them to recognize the importance of their work and of close connections with society. In this way, Tamron is aspiring to be a company beloved by the local community. Contributions to Photographic Culture The 8th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest Tamron sponsors the Railway Scenery Photo Contest in order to promote train culture and local revitalization in Omiya, known as an important railroad town in Japan and also site of our head office. As part of this contest, a photo exhibition is held at the Omiya Sogo Department Store showcasing the 87 winning entries. This local event is made possible with the much-appreciated support of the City of Saitama, the Saitama Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Saitama City Board of Education. The 8th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest received strong support from a host of different individuals, including amateur photographers and railway fans. A total of 6,554 submissions were received for the general and student divisions combined. General Division Grand Prize (Saitama City Mayor’ s Prize) Mr. Ryoichi Tomizawa “A New Variety! Train Cherry Tree” “With the viaduct obscured by the cherry tree, this photo has the front of the train emerging from the tree, making it look as though, besides cherry blossom, the tree is also sprouting a train.” Student Division Grand Prize (Saitama City Board of Education Superintendent’ s Award) Ms. Reina Kitamura “Isumi Railway Girls’Club” “I took this photo of the delicious cakes and smiling faces in a special railway carriage in which desserts were being served.” Humorous Photo Contest Award (Saitama City Chamber of Commerce and Industry President’ s Award) Mr. Hiromi Nishikawa “Summer Welcome” “This photo was taken during a special event in which children g a t h e re d a t t h e s t a t i o n a n d welcomed arriving trains with water pistols. The station-master got soaked too, and waved the train off with a water pistol in one hand.” 12th Macro Lens Photo Contest This photo contest accepts entries shot from any macro lens, regardless of manufacturer. For the 12th contest a total of 4,489 entries were received. The contest has two categories: the Nature Division for nature enthusiasts that enjoy taking pictures of plants and insects and the Genre-Free Division for amateur photographers using DSLR cameras to take pictures of food, their children or pets. Many of the entries featured beautiful, warm natural scenes captured delicately in only ways a macro lens can. 12th Macro Lens Photo Contest Grand Prize Mr. Genzou Suzuki “Warming Up” 19 Tamron CSR Report 2016 ISO26000 6.8 Community Involvement and Development Relationship with Society Growing Together with Local Communities Supporting Adaptive Athletes Contributions to the Local Community Made by Tamron has provided support to adaptive athletes since 2013. the Three Tamron Plants in Aomori Prefecture World-famous wheelchair track and field athletes Wakako Tamron’ s three plants in Aomori Prefecture contribute to their Tsuchida and Kota Hokinoue, as well as prosthetic-legged runner local communities by sponsoring local festivals (including the Saki Takakuwa are currently training hard for the upcoming 2016 Historic City of Hirosaki Fireworks Festival and the Owani Hot Summer Paralympics to be held in Rio de Janeiro in June, and Springs Summer Festival) etc. In addition, each of the plants with the 2020 Summer Paralympics scheduled to be held in takes part in monthly clean-up activities (except during the Tokyo, hopes are high for these outstanding athletes. Tamron winter months from December through to March), with a total will continue to support these athletes who use sport to spread of 73.4 kg of garbage collected in 2015. The plants also run hope and joy throughout the world. bottle top and pull-tab collection activities, with the proceeds WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/en/special/athlete/ being donated to charity. Going forward, the three plants will continue to make a concerted effort to contribute to their local communities. Participation in the Saitama City CSR Promotion Council Tamron’ s head office was a member of a CSR promotion council organized by the City of Saitama, which instituted a CSR certification program and established the CSR Promotion Council in order to heighten CSR activities being undertaken by small and medium-sized enterprise in the city. As a member of this organization, Tamron offers advice on CSR activities as well as standards and screening methods for the CSR certification program for SME in the city. Ms. Tsuchida Science Classes for Children Tamron has organized science classes for children at local public h a l l s a n d e l e m e nt a r y s ch o o l s Ms. Takakuwa since 2008 to spur interest in the sciences. In FY2015, we held a total of 11 science classes in local community centers and elementary schools, with a total of 360 people participating. Mr. Hokinoue Supporting Nature Restoration Touring class Tamron’ s Omiya head office continues to support the nature “Let’ s get inside a giant soap bubble” restoration project carried out by the Ecosystem Conservation Society Saitama together with local citizen groups at the Shibakawa Daiichi Flood Control Reservoir and surrounding areas. Many years ago the Minuma Tambo area of the reservoir Supporting the Cookie Project area was an abundant wetland with white herons. Today the Tamron provided adver tising suppor t and donations to reservoir continues to see a number of wildfowl such as swans Cookie Bazaar 2015 held in Saitama City in February 2015 and and even short-toed eagles visit the area to feed. In 2015, organized by the Cookie Project. This organization works to Tamron provided sponsorship for the improvement work on h el p th e dis a ble d live the wooden fences along the Minumadaiyosui visitor trail, independently in the undertaken by Saitama Prefectural Government and Saitama City community. Government. Cookie bazaar Minumadaiyosui visitor trail Shibakawa Daiichi Flood Control Reservoir Wooden fence improvement work Tamron CSR Report 2016 20 ISO26000 6.8 Community Involvement and Development Activities at Tamron’ s Overseas Subsidiaries Tamron’ s subsidiaries outside Japan continue to strengthen their relationship with local communities. Tamron Europe GmbH Five years have passed since, as part of the expansion of the company’ s premises, Tamron Europe installed 344 photovoltaic (PV) panels on its roof to generate its own power and reduce CO2 emissions. In 2015, the amount of power generated by these PV panels rose by 1.5% to 65,000 kWh (a record level), equivalent to a reduction in CO2 emissions of 45 t-CO2. To date, the system has produced a total of 315,000 kWh of electric power and reduced CO2 emissions by 220 tons. As part of its CSR activities, Tamron Europe also continues to provide donations of 10,000 Euros to an organization in Cologne (Koln) that provides support for children with cancer. In addition, in 2015 Tamron Europe gave donations to a refugee center located near the company’ s premises. After consulting Rooftop PV panels at Tamron with the center managers to find out what was most needed, Europe GmbH it was decided to purchase clothing to donate to the center. An activity being held by one of the Tamron Europe employees also brought shoes etc. from home to organizations supported by Tamron donate to the refugees. Europe. Tamron Optical Shanghai S i n c e 2 014 , Ta m ro n O p t i c a l S h a n g h a i h a s b e e n Shanghai is also holding similar photography seminars in implementing a scholarship program called“Tamron – other parts of China. Stars of Tomorrow”at Sichuan University of Media and Communication, China’ s second-largest media-focused university. Under this program, every year students with the highest grades are awarded a scholarship in order to help realize the dreams of the young people who will be playing key roles in the fields of photography and the media in the future. As a related project, Tamron is holding photography seminars at Sichuan University of Media and Communication, taught by leading Chinese photographers, to give students the opportunit y to experience taking photos with Tamron’ s lenses. In 2015, two of these photography seminars were held, with a total of around 200 students participating. Tamron Optical Scholarship presentation ceremony Tamron USA I n 2015 , Ta m ro n US A e s t a b l is h e d a n e w p e rs o n n e l its offices, and has been promoting a switch over from paper depar tment, and devoted considerable ef for t to the (print) advertising to digital media advertising, as part of an implementation of CSR activities and CSR training and the ongoing commitment to conserving paper resources. drawing up of related internal regulations. In 2016, Tamron WEB http://www.licares.org/make-a-difference/host-a-food-drive USA has launched training programs to enhance employees’ professional capabilities and has drawn up and implemented an action plan to clarify evacuation routes in the event of an emergency evacuation. As regards externally-oriented CSR activities, Tamron USA has provided financial support for photography classes at the Minnesota Landscape Arboretum, as well as assigning personnel to serve as instructors and lending lenses for use in the classes. Tamron USA has also participated in the Long Island Cares Inc.“FoodDrive”project, donating four cartons of emergency food supplies and daily necessities; these were delivered directly to the people who need them. With regard to environmental activities, Tamron USA has been reducing the amount of printer paper used in Photography class at the Minnesota Landscape Arboretum In addition to the above, Tamron’ s other business sites in Hong Kong, France, Russia and India will continue to promote social contribution activities that meet the needs of their local communities in ways that only Tamron can. 21 Tamron CSR Report 2016 ISO26000 7.5 Communication on Social Responsibility Independent Third-Party Opinion [Current Title] [External Activities] Professor, International College of Arts Director, CSR Center, Yokohama City University and Sciences, Yokohama City University Chairman, Yokohama Green Purchasing Network Committee Member, CSR Committee, The Yokohama Chamber of [Career History] Commerce & Industry 1989 Graduate ‌ School of Commerce, Waseda Advisor, Alterna Research Institute University Advisor, JES Completed doctoral program A p p o inte d Full tim e Le c t u re r at t h e Department of Commerce, Yokohama [Works Authored] Why do the Companies Employing the Handicapped Continue Getting City University Good Business Results? (Chuohoki Publishing Co., Ltd.) 1990 ‌Appointed A ssistant Professor at the How Regional CSR Can Save Japan (Keibundo) Department of Commerce, Yokohama The Economics of the Global Economy and Human Lifestyles (Keibundo) City University The CSR Management Revolution (co-author) (Chuokeizai-sha Inc.) 2001 Appointed ‌ Professor at the Department etc. of Commerce, Yokohama City University 2005 Appointed ‌ Professor at the International Yokohama’ s Industry and Urban Development (co-author) (Gakubunsha) College of Arts and Sciences, Yokohama City University Professor [Areas of Specialization] Makoya Kageyama Economic theory, economic systems theory, and regional CSR theory A manufacturing enterprise needs more than just products that meet and need to possess the knowhow and practical skills to act on their customers’needs; it also needs to put in place measures to help decisions. safeguard the environment that focus on those production processes Tamron has good communications bet ween company of ficers which could have a major negative impact on the environment, as well and employees; the company aims to ensure that its management as employment and labor health and safety measures that will help the philosophy is thoroughly diffused among the workforce, and also strives firm retain the superior human talent it needs in order to maintain its to strengthen employees’motivation and take employees’needs into technological edge. account. While the establishment of the Tamron day-care center is the Tamron is seeking to expand into new markets by using the company’ highest expression of this attitude, Tamron’ s efforts to make a positive s technology and know-how to develop new business areas – such as contribution to society (for example through its support for popular lenses for automotive cameras and lenses for security cameras – in photography) also have the potential to enhance employee motivation. addition to the firm’ s existing photography-related business. As regards Tamron also has good lateral relations among employees, which is measures to help safeguard the environment, besides working to reduce important for realizing improvements at the shop-floor level. However, carbon dioxide emissions and electric power consumption, Tamron is there are still some issues that need to be addressed. also taking active steps to monitor the effectiveness of its cost reduction Firstly, in the contemporary era, characterized as it is by constant change initiatives. In addition, the establishment of a day-care center adjacent and by market diversification and intensification, merely differentiating to Tamron’ s head office has helped to ensure that Tamron employees oneself from other companies is not enough; there is a need for branding have somewhere to look after their children while they are at work. With that creates absolute value for stakeholders. To achieve this, it is vitally provision for looking after sick children, this is a measure that should important to use diversity (both within the company and externally) to have great appeal for workers of child-raising age. foster creativity and self-actualization among the company’ s employees, All of these measures embody key points relating to CSR. The first thereby contributing to the development of new products and new point is that CSR measures need to be based on strategic thinking markets, while promoting measures to make a positive contribution to that combines social significance that will appeal to stakeholders with society through a story-based approach that takes ubiquitous design relevance for the company itself. Socially-meaningful measures can only and originality into account. be implemented on an ongoing basis if they also make sense from the Secondly, it would be advisable for Tamron to use practical structural perspective of business management. It can safely be said that Tamron analysis to identify the key factors that can be used to enhance understands this point. employees’CSR implementation ability, thereby in turn making it possible A further point is that the key to successful CSR lies in a company’ s to refine the measures used to realize CSR. employees. Besides themselves being internal stakeholders, employees Thirdly, Tamron seems to have neglected evaluation of its CSR activities are also the people who put CSR into practice. For CSR to be effective, from a business strategy perspective. It would be helpful to establish employees need to be able to decide for themselves what kind of action indicators and perform evaluation in this regard. Strategic awareness they should take (in line with the company’ s management philosophy), and appropriate assessment should prove very useful when reviewing integrated reports in the future. Editorial Team’ s Postscript This report contains information on Tamron’ s annual activities as a way to facilitate engagement with our many stakeholders. The special feature section of the 2016 report focuses on the establishment of the Tamron Kids Day-care Center, the support that Tamron provides to help employees balance their work and childcare responsibilities, and Tamron’ s human resources cultivation system. Universal design (UD) fonts have been used for the Japanese version of Head office Tamron Optical (Foshan) this report to make sure that the content of the report can be read by as many people as possible. We sincerely hope that this report, and the way it has been presented, will help readers to learn more about Tamron. We will be responding to the views expressed in the independent thirdparty opinion by working to promote creativity and self-direction among our employees, and we will also be striving to develop global CSR management. We encourage readers to share their frank comments and requests, so that we can use them to improve next year’ s report. The three Aomori plants Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Tamron CSR Report 2016 22 Tamron Co., Ltd. CSR Implementation & Administration Board 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-city, Saitama 337-8556 Japan Tel. +81-48-684-9190 Fax. +81-48-677-6653 E-mail: e-report@tamron.co.jp Website: http://www.tamron.co.jp Published March 2016
