Message from Brent Saunders, Chief Executive Officer Allergan plc is a bold, global pharmaceutical company focused on innovation and bringing to market treatments that improve lives, every day. This focus is driven by deep engagement with healthcare providers – our customers – and understanding the innovation they need for their patients. We are mindful of our impact on the world around us. Allergan has a deep commitment to the health, safety, and well-being of the people who put their trust in our products and the global communities where we operate. We are committed to ensuring our contribution to science reflects our commitment to safe, healthful workplaces, strong communities and responsible, ethical business practices in everything we do -research and development, manufacturing and distribution. Allergan has a deep history and commitment to sustainability leadership. As a Company, we’ve set an ambitious goal to further reduce our impact by 2020 (our 20/20 Challenge). In 2015, while completing a significant business integration, we continued to improve our sustainability performance. We were recognized as Sustained Excellence Energy Star Partner of the Year by the US Environmental Protection Agency and several of our facilities were recognized by external stakeholders for our sustainability efforts. Additional highlights are included in this report. Allergan remains focused on sustainable business practices including:  Offering needed products that have environmental health and safety design considerations,  Managing our environmental impact by improving energy, waste, and water efficiency,  Providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees,  Working with our supply chains to improve corporate responsibility performance, and  Executing on the principals of our Social Contract with our patients. More information about these and other areas of our commitment is provided throughout the Responsibility section of our website, our Annual Report and Form 10-K and about the philanthropic ventures of the Allergan Foundation in its Annual Report Allergan is committed to sustainable business values. We work to keep these values in mind in all aspects of our business so we maintain the excellent reputation we enjoy with our global stakeholders. Brent Saunders Chief Executive Officer Allergan, Plc UN Global Compact Commitments and Performance The following narrative and links will demonstrate how Allergan is addressing each of these Principles. Human Rights Allergan approaches the Protection of Human Rights as it does any other personal freedom and has articulated this support through its Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct applies to all Allergan employees and in all of Allergan’s business dealings. The Code of Conduct requires, among other things, that employees respect human rights and do not discriminate against anyone based on characteristics protected by law. Harassment is not tolerated in any form. Violence or threats of violence in the workplace are not tolerated. The Code of Conduct applies to persons or entities representing or working on behalf of Allergan as well. Allergan is committed to conducting business only with suppliers who adhere to the highest ethical standards and comply with laws and regulations applicable to their business. Allergan has undertaken actions to ensure that the services and materials provided to Allergan meet this commitment. Allergan joined the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which promotes the ethical sourcing and responsible procurement of goods and services. PSCI on behalf of its membership including Allergan conducts supply chain partner audits that include aspects such as human rights Labor Allergan approaches the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining as it does any other personal freedom and has articulated this support through its Code of Conduct. The Code of Ethics applies to all Allergan employees and in all of Allergan’s business dealings Allergan participated in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which tackles awareness of sustainability areas such as freedom of association and collective bargaining. A PSCI conference was held in China to introduce the PSCI Principles and to provide insight and tools to manage issues such as freedom of association and collective bargaining. A global webinar was also conducted to educate supply chain partners on the PSCI Principles including freedom of association and collective bargaining. Environment Allergan has a very strong stand on environmental responsibility as indicated by our EHS policy, programs and performance. We continue to identify and implement opportunities that will reduce waste, water and energy from our operations. In 2015, we were recognized as a Partner of The Year by the US EPA Energy Star Program. As part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact, Allergan has committed to the UN Global Compact Caring for Climate Program and the CEO Water Mandate. Allergan participates in meetings and offers suggestions and examples of strategies and projects that have worked for Allergan. Ultimately, Allergan has been very successful at reducing energy and water consumption at its facilities and has aggressive goals to continue this performance. Allergan will continue to contribute to these efforts and anticipates achieving its goals in the timeframes stated. In 2015, we continued to engage our supply chain on environmental issues by requesting sustainability data through the EcoDesk platform. This allows us to identify and prioritize suppliers with the greatest impact on our environmental footprint. We partner with these suppliers to identify opportunities to reduce environmental impact. Corruption Allergan has established positions against corruption including bribery in its Code of Conduct. Allergan participates in the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) which tackles awareness of sustainability areas such as combatting corruption and bribery in our supply chain. A PSCI conference was held in China to introduce the PSCI Principles and to provide insight and tools to manage issues such as corruption and bribery. A global webinar was also conducted to educate supply chain partners on the PSCI Principles including combatting corruption and bribery. Conclusion Allergan will continue to enhance support of the UN Global Compact Principles. Allergan will collaborate with the UN Global Compact on methods and means to improve its performance and the performance of all entities regarding these Principles.
