Communication on Progress 2015 • 1969 History Datascrip started out as a humble stationery store with an expanding product line from stationery to office equipment, office machines, drafting machines, office furniture, computers and printers. • 1979 The company’s core business was Office System. • 1985 The company’s core business developed into System for Business. • 1997 Datascrip became known as Office Solution Company. • 2000 Repositioned itself as the Business Solutions Provider. • 2016 Datascrip’s one-stop solution is continually strengthened by its ever expanding product portfolio and more than 45 years of management experience. 1 2 Statement of Support We support the achievement of United Nations Global Compact goals through our company policies and corporate culture. They are implemented in our business activities, by empowering people to promote a better performance through our philosophy of Succeed above Success. Irwan Kamdani President Director PT. Datascrip 3 • Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Datascrip continues to instill its corporate culture (through games, sharing sessions, gimmicks, etc.) to benefit not only the company but also our employees as well. The core values of our corporate culture (Catur Sila) are: – Succeed above success – CARE (Customer Interest, Attentive, Responsive, Efficient) – SMILE (Share, Motivate, Improve, Lead, Efficient) – CoCoCoCo (Communication, Cooperation, Coordination, Commitment) • As part of its initiative to support the surrounding neighborhood, Datascrip donated cows to be distributed to the surrounding underprivileged residents during Eid alAdha. • Datascrip continued to hold its quarterly blood donation program, which were held in January, April, July and November, all with full attendance. FOTO KURBAN 5 • Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Datascrip donated DSLR camera with its SELPHY printer to an orphanage in Jogjakarta with the hope that they would be able to create a small photo business to cover their own costs. • Datascrip also donated the same (DSLR camera with its SELPHY printer) to Mr. Nasrul, a street photography vendor in Kuningan, West Java, to help him improve his small business and get more customers. • As part of its inclusive business strategy for its DSLR camera and its SELPHY printer , Datascrip educated street photographer on various tourist sites on how to use the products and how to approach and sell their services to tourists. These gatherings were conducted several times in several different locations throughout 2015. • Datascrip supported Aksi Sinergi Untuk Indonesia (AKSI UI), a non-profit organization aimed to create synergy among different entities to create a comprehensive solution to the poverty issue in Indonesia. 5 • Labor Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; • Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Datascrip provides its employees healthcare, social security (BPJS Kesehatan) and pension benefits (BPJS Ketenagakerjaan). • Achievements made by Datascrip’s employee are generously rewarded with bonus, incentive, promotions and/or recognitions. • Datascrip’s Employee Guidelines clearly stated its position as an equal opportunity employer against any discrimination on race, religion, sex, age, nationality, disability and veteran status. • Datascrip is OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety) certified, to ensure safe and healthy working environment and to ensure that the necessary equipments are in place for the health and safety of its employees. • SIMPONI is an employee evaluation software, developed in-house by Datascrip, to measure the performance of all employees against objective standards from multiple standpoints (360 degree evaluation). 7 • Environment Principle 7 : Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Canon Care Center (CCC) continues its recycling initiatives through Customer Loyalty Program and Canon Recycle Program, where used and worn-out cartridges, toners, digital cameras, printers and scanners are collected from customers and sent to the Electronic Waste Center to be recycled. • Energy-efficient lighting and ventilation system are incorporated into Datascrip’s main warehouses in Pulogadung and Cikarang. • Glass walls are used in Datascrip’s head office, thus eliminating the need to turn on the lights during daytime. • As part of Datascrip’s initiative to lower its carbon footprint, the HVAC system used in Datascrip Building is only activated Monday through Friday, from 07:00 to 17:30. 8 • Environment Principle 7 : Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip continually develops its IT solutions to streamline its business process and progress closer toward a paperless office. • Datascrip continues its commitment to bring more environmentally-friendly products into the market: – Canon PIXMA Ink Efficient Printer G1000, G2000, G3000 use refillable ink tanks that eliminate the use of ink cartridge. – Auto Power On technology in Canon PIXMA iP2870S , PIXMA MX497 printers saves electricity usage. – We promote recycling by launching trade-in program to withdraw old computer mouses from the market and replacing them with new ones. – Wacom enables user to write on the device, thus minimizing the use of paper. • On 27 July 2015, Datascrip helped the Government to conduct disaster mitigation research by using Datascrip’s 3D Scanner at landslide disaster site in Bandung. 9 • Environment Principle 7 : Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • Datascrip participated in the IGCN’s initiative, “Save Water Campaign” starting from mid of 2013. The stickers are installed throughout Datascrip’s offices and warehouses. • As part of our growing concerns for the environment, Datascrip is ISO 14001 (environmental management) certified. • Datascrip participated in 4th SR Asia International Conference . The conference educates sustainability and social responsibility and showcases best practices in the implementation of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). • Matahari Alka, a part of Datascrip’s group of companies, is one o f the Circle Founder of Green Product Council Indonesia (GPCI) which is an independent, nonprofit-organization and voluntary scheme for the certification of environmentally preferable products. 10 • Anti-Corruption Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Datascrip encourages government and private sectors to use its Priority Customer Online Order (eProcurement System ). The automated and transparent procurement process as well as the clearly listed price are designed to avoid potential for corruption. • The price list of Datascrip products is available through its website, www.datascrip.com. This further reduces the potential for corruption through price transparency. • Datascrip’s Company Rules and Regulation clearly stated its commitment against corruption. • Datascrip issued “Business Engagement Guidelines” which governs employees conduct in government tender, anti-trust issues, promotion of fair business competition and anti-corruption. • On 8 June 2015, Datascrip held an internal sharing session on topic of anticorruption and gratification. The presentation was done by our General Manager of Regional Offices and it was attended by all top management of Datascrip. • Datascrip participated in Compliance Management training on 27 October 2015, conducted by Indonesia Global Compact Network in cooperation with Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) and Alliance for Integrity. The training emphasizes on identifying and avoiding corruption. 11 • Measurement The followings are the measurement of the outcomes of the four principles of Global Compact. • Human Rights: – Number of quarterly blood donation → 4 times – Charity conducted → 3 times – Inclusive business program → 1 time • Labor: – Employee composition (by religion) which represents a more balanced mix than of Indonesian population: – Islam → 977 employees – Christian → 184 employees – Catholic → 117 employees – Budha → 30 employees – Hindu → 6 employees – Compliance with OHSAS 18001:2007 is maintained • Environment: – Environmentally conscious products → 3 product sub groups – Compliance with ISO 14001:2004 is maintained • Anti-Corruption: – Events related to anti-corruption → 2 events – Price list availability at website is maintained 11
