Sustainability and responsible ownership – extracts from the Annual Report 2015 Ratos develops Nordic companies We create value Ratos celebrates its 150th anniversary this year. Our long Ratos is an investment company that acquires, develops history and our strong principal owner in the Söderberg and divests mainly unlisted Nordic companies. The comfamily and the Söderberg Foundations provide credibility mon denominator for the companies that Ratos acquires and stability over time. We want to build successful busiis that all have clear development potential. With focus ness models and we are convinced that sustainable business on growth and profitability, initiatives are taken that can creates value and is a prerequisite for sound long-term change entire industries and, in many cases, the compagrowth – for companies, people and the community. nies undergo a total transformation during the holding period. Ratos has 18 companies in its portfolio, combined We offer a unique investment opportunity sales of SEK 31bn and 15,500 employees. Ratos offers a unique opportunity for stock market players to benefit from unlisted Nordic enterprises’ growth We invest in attractive business models and in value. Ratos is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm and has a in people who are driven balanced portfolio and exposure to several Ratos’s operation is a question of being entrepreneurial industries and markets, which is expected to yield healthy – of inquisitively recognising potential and driving change. returns over time. In all enterprise, value is created by people. Our ability Our company-specific return target (annual average to attract and develop employees and to build important internal rate of return, IRR) amounts to a minimum of relationships is therefore a prerequisite for long-term suc15–20%. In the past ten years, Ratos has delivered a 22% cess. Ratos’s goal is to realise the development potential return on completed exists. in the companies we invest in and create value by being a Ratos invests its equity, which gives the strength and partner that harnesses business opportunities and lends flexibility to buy and sell companies at the right moment. its ideas, experience, capital and contacts. We gladly As long as the assessed future potential meets our criteria co-invest with entrepreneurs and other owners who see and as long as we can contribute to further development the advantage of our profile, flexible ownership horizon of a company, Ratos stays on as owner, normally for a and values. period of between five and ten years. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2015 1 The companies in brief Ratos invests in unlisted medium-sized companies in the Nordic region and has a portfolio of 18 companies. The biggest segment in terms of sales is Industrials, followed by Consumer goods and Technology/ Media/Telecom. An overview of Ratos’s companies is presented below and a detailed description of each company is provided in the annual report. 18 LAN IN 4 F D companies with total W OR A CO MP ES I 4 AN 31 N Y EDE CO ES W sales of SEK bn MP I 9 N AN S 2.1 CO MP ES I AN Adjusted EBITA of SEK bn and 15,500 MAR EN 1 D K employees. CO MP ES I AN The figures and number of companies include the acquisition of Serena Properties completed in January 2016. Our companies INDUSTRIALS AH Industries Aibel DIAB GS-Hydro HENT A global supplier of metal A leading Norwegian A global company that A leading global supplier A Norwegian construction components, modules supplier of maintenance manufactures and develops of non-welded piping solucompany that focuses on and services to the wind and modification services core material for sandwich tions to the marine and newbuild of public and energy, and cement and as well as new construccomposite structures offshore industries, among commercial real estate. minerals industries. tion projects in oil, gas and including blades for wind others. renewable energy. turbines. Sales SEK 929m Sales SEK 7,728m Sales SEK 1,450m Sales SEK 1,175m Sales SEK 5,716m Operating profit SEK 15m Operating profit SEK 279m Operating profit SEK 154m Operating profit SEK 12m Operating profit SEK 189m Ratos’s holding 70% Ratos’s holding 32% Ratos’s holding 96% Ratos’s holding 100% Ratos’s holding 73% Investment year 2007 Investment year 2013 Investment year 2001/2009 Investment year 2001 Investment year 2013 www.ah-industries.dk www.aibel.com www.diabgroup.com www.gshydro.com www.hent.no SERVICES TEC H NOLOGY/M E DIA / TE LECOM Euromaint Speed Group Bisnode KVD Nebula An independent mainteA Swedish service provider One of Europe’s leading Sweden’s largest independA leading provider of nance company for the in the area of staffing, providers of decisionent online marketplace cloud-based services, rail transport sector in warehousing and logistics support solutions. By transoffering broker services for IT infrastructure and netSweden. with supplementary forming data into insight, second-hand vehicles. work services to small and services in production, Bisnode helps decision makmedium-sized enterprises recruitment and education. ers to make smart decisions. in Finland. Sales SEK 1,735m Sales SEK 536m Sales SEK 3,535m Sales SEK 317m Sales SEK 299m Operating profit SEK 74m Operating profit SEK 25m Operating profit SEK 280m Operating profit SEK 29m Operating profit SEK 87m Ratos’s holding 100% Ratos’s holding 70% Ratos’s holding 70% Ratos’s holding 100% Ratos’s holding 73% Investment year 2007 Investment year 2015 Investment year 2005 Investment year 2010 Investment year 2013 www.euromaint.com www.speedgroup.se www.bisnode.com www.kvd.se www.nebula.fi 2 Ratos 2015 Sustainability and responsible ownership Sales breakdown by geographic market Sales breakdown by segment Rest of the world 8% Healthcare/ Life Science 3% Industrials 59% Eastern Europe 3% 2 companies 8 companies Nordic North America 8% countries 65% Technology/Media/ Telecom 14% Western Europe 16% 3 companies Services 10% Consumer Goods 14% 2 companies 2 companies Adjusted for the size of Ratos’s holding. Serena Properties not included. Adjusted for the size of Ratos’s holding. Serena Properties not included. CONSUMER GOODS HL Display Ledil Mobile Climate Control ArcusGruppen Jøtul An international supplier of A leading global supplier An international supplier of A leading supplier of wine One of Europe’s largest products and solutions for of high-quality secondary complete climate systems and spirits in the Nordic manufacturers of stoves in-store communication optics for LED lighting. for buses, off-road and region through its own and fireplaces with global and merchandising. defence vehicles. brands and well-known distribution through its agency brands. own sales organisations and via distributors. Sales SEK 1,488 Sales SEK 297m Sales SEK 1,264m Sales SEK 2,586m Sales SEK 930m Operating profit SEK 8m Operating profit SEK 95m Operating profit SEK 152m Operating profit SEK 217m Operating profit SEK 0m Ratos’s holding 99% Ratos’s holding 66% Ratos’s holding 100% Ratos’s holding 83% Ratos’s holding 93% Investment year 2001/2010 Investment year 2014 Investment year 2007 Investment year 2005 Investment year 2006 www.hl-display.com www.ledil.com www.mcc-hvac.com www.arcus.no www.jotulgroup.com HE ALTHCARE /LIFE SCIE NCE RE AL E STATE Biolin Scientific TFS Serena Properties An international provider A global service company Commercial retail that develops, manuthat performs clinical trials properties in Finland with factures and markets on behalf of pharmaceutenants in grocery and analytical instruments for tical, biotechnology and discount retail. research, development and medical device industries. quality control. Sales SEK 227m Sales SEK 689m Operating profit SEK 8m Operating profit SEK 45m Ratos’s holding 100% Ratos’s holding 60% Ratos’s holding 56% Investment year 2010 Investment year 2015 Investment year 2016 www.biolinscientific.com www.tfscro.com www.serena.se Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2015 3 CEO’s comments An eventful year 2015 was an extremely eventful year, for both Ratos and the world in general. At Ratos, we continued to work with growth and profit-improving measures in the companies, while realising substantial accumulated values through the divestment of Nordic Cinema Group and Inwido. We added three new attractive companies to the portfolio and exited a couple of smaller companies that did not perform as intended. A portfolio of companies is now emerging that has increasingly greater elements of growth companies and large development potential. Meanwhile, we have a strong financial position that allows for more acquisitions. After a few years of very weak share price performance, the Ratos share delivered a total return in 2015 that is almost on par with the market. When combined with all the important transactions and good development in our companies, this makes me proud of what we have accomplished during the year, and excited to see the future effects of all our efforts. Divestment of two new market leaders The completed transactions leave us standing with a Two brilliant examples of how Ratos works with business strong financial position. This is particularly reassurdevelopment are the two larger companies we sold in ing since, at the time of writing, 2016 has opened with 2015. In both cases, we helped create market-leading turbulence in the financial markets. Meanwhile, it is our companies in interesting market niches. Window and door explicit ambition to continue to acquire attractive commanufacturer Inwido was one of our holdings for 11 years, panies in 2016 that will make the Ratos portfolio more during which time, we made 30-something add-on acquigrowth-oriented and that have good value-creation sitions. A major player has subsequently been created that potential. can capitalise on economies of scale and make long-term investments in product development. Measures and development In the five years since we stepped in as owner of Our companies are still exhibiting a high level of activity Finnkino, the Nordic region’s leading cinema operator was and we predict that the measures we have taken will created and reports good profitability and growth. The generate further effects in the future. As always, this is the deciding factors were the 2013 acquisition of SF Bio and core of our business. A few examples of the year’s develthe formation of Nordic Cinema Group, through which we opment focus and strategically important changes can be could extract considerable synergies in everything from the found on the next page. design of theatres to marketing and concession sales. We have also taken measures in companies where Ratos’s shareholders were well rewarded after the we do not see sufficient potential for them to realise our divestment, and the realised values give us good conditions return requirement in the long term. Our exit from Hafa for new, attractive investments. Bathroom Group is one such example, as is Euromaint’s divestment of its unprofitable German operations. It is New acquisitions and partnership important to balance a long-term approach with impatience Our portfolio has two new growth companies, clinical trials in situations where the desired progress is not made. service provider TFS, and logistics service provider Speed Group. They represent two vastly different sectors. Outlook and new thinking What unites them is that they are founded and driven by From the past year, I will particularly remember the transentrepreneurs who have wanted to partner with an active formative global events that affected us all, but also the owner with which they develop their company together. brighter moments, such as when the countries of the world They found the partner they were looking for in Ratos. reached a new climate agreement. Beyond a shadow of a Even the third acquisition, Finnish real estate company doubt, trends in 2015 revealed a never-stronger demand Serena Properties, is a partnership in which the Finnish for change and renewal. A heavy burden of responsibility company Varma was looking for a partner for further rests on our politicians, but also on the business commudevelopment of the 22 retail properties. After period-end, nity. I am convinced that the business community’s role we acquired yet another company, airteam, a leading supin societal progress will only increase in importance and plier of ventilation solutions in Denmark. Ratos intends to play a part. Our expertise in business development, our experience Meeting the challenges that Europe and the world of growing companies and our long-term approach, profile, face will require capital, expertise and innovation. We values and committed employees have been decisive facmust apply all our creativity and ingenuity. We must think tors and, in many instances, weighed heavier than the price changing consumerism and sharing economy; recycling alone at the time of acquisition. and sustainability; inclusion and diversity; globalisation and 4 Ratos 2015 Sustainability and responsible ownership digitisation. All this will affect the corporate climate in future and it will affect us in our work to develop enterprises. Companies that are better equipped and that can deliver solutions to various types of social challenges are, from our perspective, imperative and have vast potential for growth and profitability in the long run. This is why we drive and develop our companies’ sustainability programmes. The challenges in this area are huge, but so are the possibilities. Investment company Ratos wants to be the best at developing companies in the Nordic region To ensure that also Ratos as a company develops, we clarified Ratos’s vision, business concept and market position during the year. The result is a more pronounced vision in which we declare our ambition to be the best in the Nordic region at developing companies. Moreover, we have now decided to refer to ourself as an investment company, a broader term that points to the heart of what we do, namely our core business of investments and business development and our efforts to realise the potential of our companies. Our domestic market remains the Nordic countries, where we have our contacts and business network and where we are primarily active. Investment company Ratos will be an eco-system in which we create the optimum conditions for enterprises and entrepreneurial individuals to develop and grow. 2016 will also bring changes to Ratos’s Board of Directors. Arne Karlsson has declared his intention to step down as chairman. The Nomination Committee has proposed Jonas Wiström as new chairman and I look forward to working together with him. I would like to thank Arne for the excellent cooperation we have enjoyed during our years together at Ratos. You have been a constant source of wise advice and a valuable partner, for which I am extremely grateful. Ratos turns 150 in 2016, and we intend to celebrate! This year it is 150 years since Ratos’s predecessor Söderberg & Haak was founded. In other words, we have cause to reflect over a slightly longer time perspective. When I read the book about Ratos’s history written by Anders Johnson, it strikes me that a clear common thread can be seen in Ratos, a strong driving force that weaves through time and generations of the Söderberg family. Ratos and its predecessors have lent their knowledge, expertise and capital since 1866. Throughout, the predominant driving force has been the will to create something new, to do business, to develop organisations and people, and to contribute to society. It is the same force that drives us today as Ratos sets its sight on the next 150 years. I am pleased and proud over everything we have accomplished so far, but I am also excited about and look forward to what lies ahead. We have incredible employees, and together we work to cultivate great value – in companies, in communities and in our day-to-day activities at Ratos. Thank you for all your work, for your drive and for your dedication! Thank you to our shareholders, too. You keep us on our toes! Susanna Campbell CEO Ratos as owner Committed and active owner Ratos’s goal is to develop successful companies. A committed and active owner, we invest in Nordic, mainly unlisted companies. Each investment situation is unique, and even if the companies operate strategically, operationally and financially independent of each other, there is a common denominator for our activities. Ratos’s focus is to contribute to long-term and sustainable business development based on common values. Our ownership model is based on four cornerstones: 1. Values 2. Focus on value creation Ratos’s actions are based on the core values When we invest in a new company, a thorough entrepreneurial, committed and responsible. and ambitious strategy and business plan with clear Entrepreneurial because we in our companies want to business targets for development and financial stimulate curiosity, original approaches and change effects, are prepared. Together with the companies’ and reinforce a genuine interest in entrepreneurship. executive management, we cultivate the conditions Committed since we want to work closely with key for further growth and better profitability. Ratos people in the companies, develop ideas and act has a flexible ownership horizon, which together. Responsible since we have high is often between five and ten years. demands on business ethics and always We strive for long-term, lasting weigh the consequences of the effects in our work with the decisions we are involved in for companies and take part in 2. Fo people and the environment. cu driving sustainability Those with whom we do s cre s development in the business will be able to trust ue a ue companies in which us, want to choose us and 1.V val we are active. return to us. al on on ti DEVELOPMENT MODEL nce 4. Tool box 3. Governance o na Ratos lends expertise, 4. T ol er A distinct structure for experience, contacts and bo v corporate governance is capital to our companies. This x 3. Go always introduced in companies is done in part via board work, in which we invest. A board is and in part through daily contacts appointed comprising people who between key people in the compabring strategic expertise and industrial nies and Ratos’s employees, as well as experience. The chairman of the board is forums organised by Ratos in which employees recruited externally. Management has clear and from different companies meet and exchange best complete operational mandate and responsibility. In practices. Ratos’s organisation contains experience parallel with a formal corporate governance, we want accumulated in strategy processes, business analyto create a close collaboration and common agenda sis, transactions, financing, accounting, sustainability for the company’s development. We do so through and brand issues that contribute to the companies’ our troikas (CEO, chairman of the board and Ratos’s development. company executive) which prepare key issues and serve as a sounding board for the CEO. 6 Ratos 2015 Sustainability and responsible ownership Sustainable development Ratos is an integrated part of the community. To conduct our operations and develop companies requires different types of input that Ratos manages and invests in. Through its operations, Ratos creates value for the community in forms such as financial flows, structure capital, innovation and development. Input value Value creation through responsible ownership FINANCIAL CA PITA L Economic values Employees INTELLECTUAL CAPITA L (salaries & benefits) SEK 5,489 M S hareholders KNOWLEDGE CAPITAL (dividends) SEK 1,111 M State & municipality (paid tax) SEK 1,371 M RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL Other values Suppliers (payments) NATURAL CAPITAL Job opportunities Community involvement APITA L (knowledge, time and money) MATERIAL C I nnovation and ideas Sustainability for an investment company Our stakeholders and key issues As a responsible owner, we create value by establishing Ratos’s most material sustainability issues have been companies with a pronounced sustainability agenda. identified through intelligence gathering, industry analysis Our focus on sustainability stems from a conviction that and a process that weighs in the different stakeholders’ sustainable business is value-generating and necessary priorities and highly relevant issues for the operations and for continued sound development in Ratos and society. value creation. In addition, further discussions have been To preserve and create value, Ratos conducts structured conducted in Ratos’s management group. Priorities are set sustainability initiatives with demands and support to each based on this mapping of relevant issues. individual company. Ratos’s key stakeholders include the employees, manIn 2013, Ratos became a signatory to the UN Global agement groups and boards of Ratos and our companies, Compact’s ten principles for responsible business operations business partners as co-investors, and our shareholders. as well as the UN Principles for Responsible Investment, PRI. These groups are prioritised since their influence on These principles provide a basis for our sustainability agenda. Ratos’s financial, environmental and social aspects are key The year’s report adheres to the GRI G4 Guidelines (see the for its operations. reference index on page 16-17) and finds inspiration from the Integrated Reporting framework. Stakeholders Method of interaction Top sustainability issues for the group Employees at Ratos and its Staff meetings, performance reviews  ork-life balance, equal opportunities, W companies Structured discussion groups focusing on Ratos’s values, resource prioritisation, talent development corporate culture, processes and future development Meeting forums at Ratos (CEO, CFO, etc.) The companies’ management  lear and structured corporate governance and dialogue C  easonable, defined, and company-relevant requirements R groups and board members G roup-wide assessment of the work of the board Support available from Ratos Owners and investors Active in surveys such as RobecoSAM, Vigeo, F inancial strength and resilience (see page 27 for Ratos’s Sustainalytics, CDP and Regi IR Nordic Corporate governance, transparency, including taxes largest owners) G eneral meetings B usiness ethics, anti-corruption Dialogues and individual meetings R atos’s employees: competence, equality, conditions Strategy and control of sustainability Integration of sustainability/ESG in the investment process and active ownership Others No proactive dialogue, available for discussions as needed NB: Companies refers to subsidiaries. In our associated companies, Ratos can exert influence to a different extent, which is why demands and processes can vary. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2015 7 Ratos’s sustainability issues have been prioritised based company’s own sustainability efforts and constitute the on stakeholder dialogues and materiality analysis. Refer to base for our work as responsible owner are summarised materiality analysis on www.ratos.se. Ratos’s direct impact below. Financial strength and resilience are a prerequisite is very slight in relation to the portfolio companies’ impact. for Ratos’s ability to conduct its operations and develop Ratos’s work as responsible investor and owner has top companies for the future. Refer to the financial reports for priority. Other key issues for Ratos that concern the parent details. Create value through responsible ownership: build future-proofed companies 1. Develop 2. Do business with 3. Ensure sound 4. Serve as good and involve our good business ethics corporate governance role models: climate employees and culture and transparency responsibility Ratos’s most pronounced impact is realised through responsible ownership. To achieve this necessitates the parent company actively working with employees, business ethics, corporate governance and serving as good role models. Parent company’s sustainability agenda 1 Develop and involve our employees a better environment and reduce climate impact. We do Ratos places great importance on strategic talent so by measuring and reducing/limiting our consumption development and supply, better equal opportunities of energy and consumables, optimising business travel and and diversity, and a sound occupational environment adapting requirements when making larger purchases of and health, including work-life balance. See pages goods and services. 18-21 for more information about Ratos’s employees Ratos has an environmental policy and plan for its and how Ratos addresses these issues. internal environmental work that aims to reduce Ratos’s environmental impact. Ratos’s Head of Sustainability is 2 Do business with good business ethics and culture responsible for follow-up. Ratos’s parent company is not Ratos’s excellent reputation and the opportunity to do subject to any specific environmental legislation. sound business rests on good business ethics. Ratos In 2015, Ratos completed its second climate report will ensure that the company’s values and ethical rules (scope 1, scope 2 and parts of scope 3 according to the permeate all operations and that all employees understand Greenhouse Gas Protocol). Ratos’s greatest climate and comply with the Code of Conduct adopted by Ratos’s impact stems from business flights. Networking and Board of Directors. Ratos’s internal policies and process personal meetings are fundamental to our ability to for ethics and compliance secure high quality and long-term do business, and Ratos will continue to prioritise critical confidence from the market. Ratos’s employees, including business trips. Consequently, we started to make climate new recruits, receive training in business ethics, the Code compensation for all air travel in 2014. As of 2015, Ratos of Conduct and how it relates to their role in the company, uses only renewable electricity, and as of 2016, electricity and regularly discuss what this means in practice. In 2015, labelled good environmental choice. Ratos had zero incidents of violations of the Code of ConTotal emissions, tonne CO2e/yr 2015 2014 duct and zero whistleblowing reports. Moreover, Ratos Business travel 248 294 has not been fined or received any other sanctions due to of which, air travel 207 274 violations of laws or regulations. Head office (the building) 27 210 of which, electricity consumption 3 187 Office material 1 2 3 Ensure sound corporate governance and transparency Company cars, official use 3 <0.5 Sound corporate governance creates value and Ratos Total before climate compensation 279 506 Total after climate compensation 72 232 aims for high transparency in our operations. We strive to continuously improve our corporate governance and communication to safeguard high quality and the market’s Ratos as responsible owner long-term confidence. Ratos’s ambition as owner includes driving the sustaina­bility agenda in our companies. Sustainability is an integrated part 4 Lead by example: climate responsibility of the exercise of our ownership role throughout the holdTo be able to make demands and influence our compaing period – from decision processes ahead of an acquisinies, Ratos must lead by example. Climate issues concern tion to a responsible exit. Integration of sustainability in everyone and, as a company, Ratos wants to contribute to our portfolio of companies is carried out in the acquisition 8 Ratos 2015 Sustainability and responsible ownership process and through ongoing development work. Visit CR Handbook, the whistleblowing and climate reporting Ratos’s website for relevant policies (Code of Conduct, systems, and more. To enhance sustainability efforts, the the policy for Corporate Responsibility and Responsible investment organisation receives training regularly. Of the Investments, and the Environmental Policy). 18 companies included in Ratos’s portfolio at the start of During the year, Ratos has used negative screening 2015, Ratos has interacted with all 18 companies (100%) (see Ratos’s Policy for CR and Responsible Investments on the matter of sustainability, including social and environfor a description of Ratos’s exclusion criteria). The assessmental issues, and/or business ethics. ment of a potential acquisition includes an evaluation of long-term sustainability, sustainability-related risks (social Responsibility, governance and follow-up and environmental issues, and business ethics including Ratos’s active ownership necessitates a clear division of corruption risks) coupled with the company’s maturity, responsibility and follow-up. Ratos’s CEO and Head of culture and values. In 2015, Ratos made three acquisiSustainability share the overall responsibility for Ratos’s tions, and in all acquisitions (100%), an assessment of the sustainability strategy and initiatives. The Head of Sustainsustainability-related risks was performed as an integral ability defines and coordinates requirements, guidelines part of the due diligence. The risk assessment resulted in and follow-up of the companies’ sustainability work and a recommendation to proceed with each acquisition and assists Ratos’s company teams and the companies themrecommendations for the ownership process. selves when necessary. The CEO and management of each Ratos is a sector generalist, which means that our holdcompany have operational responsibility for the company’s ings are affected by many different issues. We therefore CR work. Each company board is ultimately responsible have both common requirements for the entire portfolio for ensuring the company complies with Ratos’s and the and company-specific efforts to ensure focus on sustainabilcompany’s policies and guidelines. Each company has an ity issues relevant to each company. Our demands emanate established process that enables the board to regularly from relevant legislation and the Global Compact’s prinfollow-up sustainability efforts and that stipulates that the ciples. Since 2011, Ratos’s demands and expectations on board is expected to receive a report about and discuss the its companies are clarified in our Corporate Responsibility progress of sustainability efforts at least once a year. Each (CR) framework. It has a basic level that applies to all subcompany’s board ensures that the company meets Ratos’s sidiaries, and a number of additional modules with requiresustainability requirements and performs an annual review ments for specific companies based on their operations of work on these issues. As of 2014, all companies submit and market presence. In addition, Ratos encourages own an annual sustainability report to Ratos. initiatives which strengthen the company’s sustainability work and sustainable business development. Selected key activities in 2015 The base for each company’s sustainability work First report from Ratos to Global Compact, PRI and CDP. should constitute a well-defined strategy and set targets, C  limate reporting system (Our Impacts) implemented at anchored in the company’s board, including a plan for how Ratos (first report for 2014) and in two companies. the CR framework will be implemented and complied with R  einforced external reporting in line with the GRI G4 in operations. Guidelines. We have an ongoing dialogue with each company’s Update of the comprehensive objectives for Ratos’s management and sustainability manager to bolster each sustainability efforts. company’s sustainability efforts during our ownership. Companies: focus on continued implementation of We also lend concrete support. Ratos’s annual CR Forum Ratos’s CR framework and selected modules. First creates networks and opportunities to share inspiration status report concerning sustainability to Ratos. and best practice between the companies. Practical tools The above work will continue in 2016. are provides to facilitate implementation, including Ratos’s COMPREHENSIVE OBJECTIVES FOR RATOS’S RESPONSIBLE OWNERSHIP EFFORTS Comprehensive objectives Status Comments/focus 2016–2017 Ratos and the companies are considered attractive employers in each target group e/t Focus 2016–2017: Establish concrete goals and measurement methods. Dedicated, motivated employees Safe workplace Before acquisition, all new investments are subject to a sustainability or Established processes and tools exist. This screening was performed ESG screening. for all three acquisitions completed in 2015. All the companies we sell have an established sustainability plan S ustainability agenda with top issues and activities (companies > 1 year) All companies (> 1 year) submitted a status report for sustainability Shortand long-term sustainability goals established and followed-up 2014. The quality needs to be strengthened, however (focus 2015–16). (companies > 2 years) The companies’ sustainability goals will be clarified during 2016. Yearly sustainability reports (companies > 1 year) The board is ultimately responsible and involved: all company boards have In 100% of the companies we owned > 1 year, the Board has presentdefined the sustainability goals and follow-up initiatives at least once a year. ed and discussed the company’s sustainability efforts during the year. For each company: reduce the climate impact and energy consumption per SEK e/t Reporting requirement (as of 2016/2017) concerning energy of sales during the holding period. consumption and CO2 (scope 1, scope 2 and parts of scope 3 when relevant). Implementation of climate reporting in progress or will start in all companies (> 2 years). Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2015 9 Employees, human rights and working conditions Implementation of Ratos’s development plans in each company work environment, employee dedication and talent developcannot be done without talented, dedicated and healthy employment are therefore top-priority issues. Respect for human ees. Most (87%) of the Group’s 15,500 employees work in the rights, reasonable working conditions and freedom of associaNordic countries and the rest of Europe, and 8% work in Asia, tion are other key aspects. This applies to both the companies’ China mainly. Several of the companies have operations that put own operations and that of their suppliers and partners. employees at a greater risk of work-related injury. A good, safe As owner, Ratos makes it clear that international conventions, human rights, and employee rights and working condiGroup employees per geographic area 2015 tions must be respected, which is stipulated in Ratos’s Code of Rest of the world 1% Sweden 21% Conduct. The companies are to implement a code of conduct Rest of Asia 4% in line with Ratos’s Code. Based on a risk analysis, the same will North America 4% also be implemented in the value chain in a suitable manner. In the sustainability reports that the companies’ are asked to Norway 34% compile every year, sick leave and the share of women in senior Rest of Europe 14% positions is reported as the same standard. Despite a proactive China 4% safety programme, serious occupational accidents occurred at Poland 4% Finland 3% some of Ratos’s companies in 2015. Consequently, health and Germany 8% Denmark 3% safety are still given top focus in 2016. Responsibility for environmental and climate impact Our companies are the source of Ratos’s greatest environmental CR Forum 2015 was climate issues. Lecturers from Stockholm impact. All companies will implement an environmental policy and Resilience Center and various companies highlighted both threats plan based on an analysis that identifies the drivers of the compaand opportunities related to climate changes, and shared their ny’s greatest environmental impact. Each company has a delegated experiences from a variety of solutions. responsibility to comply with relevant environmental legislation/ The companies’ sustainability reports contain a compilation standards, ensure that environmental permits exist, and so on. of energy consumption (kWh) and relative energy consumption. For Ratos as an investor, climate impact and change is a For companies that have their own production, expectations are relevant issue. Fossil fuels contribute to climate change and, at the higher and involve among other things, waste management and same time, our world is dependent on fossil energy. For some time water consumption. In 2016, Ratos’s companies will implement to come, the world needs to drive a switch to a sustainable supply CO2 footprint reporting in line with the GHG Protocol. of energy. Ratos encourages its companies to develop sustainable and “climate smart” products and services, and to advocate Share of companies (>1 year) Share of companies (>1 year) more focus on energy efficiency and reducing greenhouse gas that have an environmental that have environmental policy and/or plan. certification (ISO14001). emissions through sector and company-specific initiatives. In 93% 60% addition, regular assessments are performed concerning the current companies’ risks and impact in relation to climate issues. In companies where fossil fuels are part of the supply chain, Ratos helps the company develop its strategy to integrate the transformation of the energy sector in progress. The focus of Ratos’s Business ethics and anti-corruption For an investment company like Ratos, credibility, sound ethical Ratos’s CR Handbook, which has guidelines, support and best values and regulatory compliance are essential in doing business. practices for all companies, contains principles for the companies’ Corruption is a widespread problem in the world, leading to anti-corruption initiatives and development of its anti-corruption ineffective markets and major costs for companies as well as for programme. Companies with an elevated risk of corruption or many countries in the form of limited progress. irregularities have more requirements in regard to preventive An important aspect of Ratos’s active ownership involves efforts in their own operations and with business partners. mapping corruption risks. Ratos performed a detailed corrupAs of 2016, Ratos’s general rule is that all companies will have tion analysis in 2014 for all its companies. The conclusions are implemented a whistleblowing system, run by an external proannually reviewed to identify a need for an updated analysis. vider to guarantee anonymity and full integrity. Exceptions can be Of Ratos’s companies, 11 are considered to have an elevated made for smaller companies that do not have an elevated risk. risk of corruption. The risk assessment was done using a tool devised for Ratos’s investment organisation and the companies, Share of companies (>1 year) Share of companies (>1 year) that have a code of conduct that have a formalised and can be found in Ratos’s CR Handbook. The code of conduct according to Ratos’s standard. whistleblowing system. that Ratos’s companies implement contains written business 100% 40% ethics and anti-corruption instructions. All companies will perform corruption risk analyses as part of comprehensive risk mapping and management, and have preventive processes that are risk-specific, such as guidelines for employees and training programmes for people with high-risk jobs. 10 Ratos 2015 Sustainability and responsible ownership HENT – a safer workplace HENT, a Norwegian construction company, has identified a safe controls and audits of subcontractors and safety routines work environment, fair working conditions and labour laws among has increased. its key sustainability issues. During the year, HENT intensified its The outcome is greater awareness among HENT’s efforts for a safer work environment and expanded its preventive employees and in the supply chain of the importance of a measures to reduce crime in the workplace. sound work environment and humane working conditions, as well as high operational efficiency and good advances in Projects are largely carried out by a broad network of subconongoing construction projects. tractors in the construction industry. One challenge is that most in turn use other subcontractors, of whom, some use undeclared labour with poor working conditions and terms. Share of employees in charge of HENT has implemented a new policy that dictates that purchasing trained in new rousubcontractors may be commissioned in two stages. Personal tines for HMS review and audit. 100% electronic registration will be introduced at every construction site. Every individual will complete a health, environment and safety certification programme. All employees in charge of purchasing have taken courses in new routines for reviewing and approving subcontractors. In total, the number of ongoing Ledil – energy-efficient production innovation Ledil, a global player within secondary optics for LED lighting, has Ledil has a sustainable strategy with a product and a business built its business strategy on contributing to solve the world’s climate that both generates value for the company and offers solutions challenge. During the year, Ledil continued to develop new products to parts of the climate challenge. that contribute to more sustainable lighting in the world. Through a high pace of product innovation and technology advances, Ledil’s high-quality secondary optic LED lights are Approximately 25% of today’s global energy consumption goes converted into customised, specific and energy-efficient lighting. to lighting. The need for good, energy-efficient lighting rises LED lighting is estimated to be 19 times more energy efficonstantly in pace with a growing population and higher living cient than a traditional light bulb and is more environmentally standards. friendly. LED penetration is expected to amount to approximately 15–25% today and still has vast growth opportunities. Higher energy efficiency with LED lighting than traditional lighting. 19 times DIAB – global export control DIAB, a global provider of sandwich composite materials that lowers DIAB is a global company with operations in many countries the weight of components in everything from wind blades for wind where there is an elevated risk of corruption and violations of turbines to aircraft interior, which reduces costs and environmencurrent export laws. tal impact for the customer. Given its global operations, business DIAB has implemented a number of measures to ensure ethics and anti-corruption are identified as top-priority sustainability internal processes regarding export control and anti-corrupissues, and several measures were implemented during the year to tion in all countries. The company has introduced a centralised strengthen the company’s preventive efforts in the area. approval process for trade partners who undergo review and quality assurance. DIAB’s sustainability manager has carried out an internal training programme in which all employees learned about the clarified code of conduct and new anti-corruption directives, and has implemented an external whistleblowing Share of people in high-risk system. positions who received training The result is a greater awareness. In 2015, everyone in during the year. high-risk positions received in-depth training in DIAB’s new 100% anti-corruption and international trade directives. DIAB has a pronounced zero tolerance for all forms of corruption. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2015 11 We at Ratos People make the difference In all business, value is created by people. Attracting, developing and retaining skilled employees and talent is imperative to Ratos and our companies’ ability to deliver and realise long-term success. Therefore, a major priority for us is that we and our companies are attractive employers. The Ratos Group has some 15,500 employees worldwide Focus on the right skills who work for one of the 18 companies that make up The investment organisation is staffed with people who Ratos’s portfolio of companies or in Ratos’s organisation. In have extensive experience in company development and Ratos’s parent company, approximately 50 individuals are strategic analysis, people who often have a background currently employed, 25 of whom work in the investment as management consultants or from operative roles. organisation responsible for development of the compaThey are continuously involved in investment processes, nies and finding new investment opportunities. In addition, and lead the work in Ratos’s companies together with 15 Industrial Advisors are associated with the operations. each company’s board and management. Ratos’s organRatos’s CEO and management group are responsible for isation also includes people with expertise in communithe employees’ work situation, talent development and cation, brand-related issues, sustainability, financing and initiatives related to equal opportunities and diversity. accounting. Ratos’s values Entrepreneurial since we encourage Committed and dedicated in Responsible since we have high original approaches, curiosity and our businesses, companies and the demands on business ethics and weigh in the harness opportunities, conduct business people who lead and work at Ratos consequences of the decisions we are involved and build companies. and its companies. in for people and the environment. Part of my work involves identifying and initiating I first worked in the investment organisation develRatos is long term and usually has a somewhat new contact for new investment opportunities in oping our companies, but for the past three years lower leverage than most PE funds. This, combined Denmark. At Ratos, we work with value creation I’ve been head of Ratos’s sustainability efforts and with working closer to the companies than is cuson several levels: strategic, operational and financommunity involvement. I believe in the business tomary at banks where I come from, is what makes cial. It always feels to me that our contributions community as a driver of positive societal developRatos an attractive workplace. make a difference in the companies. Ratos should ment, and that it often requires strong, hands-on Karl Molander be seen as a reliable partner and owner, instead of owners for this to happen. Head of Debt Management as a financial investor. Jenny Askfelt Ruud Martin Højbjerg Head of Sustainability Investment Manager 12 Ratos 2015 Sustainability and responsible ownership The power of teamwork countries. To further broaden and improve our Nordic Each company has a dedicated team which normally consists contact base, we have Advisory Boards in Denmark, of two Ratos employees, one of whom is responsible for Finland, Norway and Sweden made up of people with the investment, with one or more as a member of the many years of business experience. They act as Ratos’s company’s board. The composition of the team and its team representatives and share their knowledge of local business spirit is key. Together with the company’s management life and contacts in their individual networks since the and boards we draft ambitious business plans to create Nordic countries differ in several respects, including corpogrowth and profitability, and to realise our return target. rate structure, sector distribution and business culture. Network with Nordic business experience The Ratos spirit Our Industrial Advisors act as advisors in investment Ratos’s actions are based on our core values – we will be processes and operational development, and are often entrepreneurial, committed and responsible. Through board members in the companies as well as members good business ethics, we ensure that those with whom of our Advisory Boards. In addition, we work with we do business will be able to trust us, want to choose us an extended network of qualified advisors who have and return to us. These values define how we work and long-standing business experience from all the Nordic interact with each other and our stakeholders. Age distribution Parental leave on average Number of permanently employed per age category, Ratos’s head office Number of months of parental leave (rolling twelve months, mean), Ratos’s head office 20 15 17 17 12 months 12 15 9 10 8 6 2 4 3 months 5 3 0 0 0 < 30 years 30-50 years > 50 years Women on parental leave Men on parental leave Employees, type and function at Ratos’s head office Number and proportion based on the type of employment in relation to gender Women % Men % <30 years 30–50 years >50 years Permanent employment 25 52 23 48 2 34 12 Fixed-term contract 2 67 1 33 2 0 1 Management group 2 40 3 60 0 3 2 Investment organisation 6 29 15 71 1 20 0 Business support 17 77 5 23 1 11 10 Total 25 23 2 34 12 Ratos’s Board of Directors 2 29 5 71 0 0 7 Boards in the companies, excluding Ratos’s investment organisation 19 26 54 74 0 0 0 Employees who have resigned 4 0 0 2 2 New employees 3 1 1 3 0 Together with two of my colleagues, I am in charge I work with one of our Finnish companies and With a background in the cut-off between technolof making sure that Ratos has a good presence in with new investment opportunities, in particuogy, design and innovation, I lend my expertise and Norway and for generating new investment opporlar in Finland. I chose to join Ratos to gain a experience from changing user needs and supply tunities. When we find attractive cases, we involve long-term perspective in company development chains triggered by digitisation. It is a force of Ratos’s entire investment organisation to complete combined with more short-term and intensive change that will rapidly shatter established sectors the acquisition. It is important for me personally to acquisition projects. Plus, it’s important for and supply chains. There’s a wealth of new busiwork actively to generate change. It is why I so enjoy me that I work for a company that has sound ness opportunities open to those who are in the working at Ratos, which is an active and dedicated values, a good reputation and talented, pleasant vanguard and who can understand the new rules of owner that works closely with the companies’ colleagues. the game before others. boards and management to create value. Tero Merentie Sara Öhrvall Lene Sandvoll Stern Investment Manager Industrial Advisor Senior Investment Manager Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2015 13 Attractive employer Ratos strives to provide a good work-life balance. Most of In all business, value is created by people, which is why it Ratos’s employees work full time, but other alternatives is a major priority for us that we, and our companies, are are available and is determined by employee preference. attractive employers. We build networks and make sure The option to structure working hours to achieve a we find the right person for the right job. work-family life balance does exist along with more posRatos has a structured approach for attracting, develsibilities to work from home. Ratos encourages parental oping and retaining skilled employees and talent as it is leave for both men and women, and actively works to imperative to Ratos and our companies’ ability to deliver make the return to work after parental leave smooth and and realise long-term success. We offer attractive opporstraightforward. As of 2015, statistics concerning to what tunities for personal growth and development through extent parental leave is taken is compiled and monitored. interesting and diverse tasks, as well as the opportunity to In 2015, of those on parental leave, women were on leave create value and do business. for an average of 12 months and men for three months. Talent and leadership development programmes are To gain access to and harness the skills of a deep pool regularly based on identified needs. In 2015, this included of talent, Ratos advocates equal opportunities and divertraining in digitisation and innovation processes, complisity. Ratos is relatively equal when it comes to the total ance issues, diversity issues, management and personal efnumber of employees and, in the investment organisation ficiency, and personal development. All employees (100%) which is traditionally a male-dominated sector, 29% were have annual formal performance reviews. women, evenly distributed over different seniorities. Distribution, Investment organisation Distribution, the company’s boards (excluding Ratos employees and employee representative) Women 29% Men 71% Women 26% Men 74% Ratos Talent Award Tomas Jonsson, 41 Ratos Talent Award was presented for the fourth time in 2015. Head of the technical department at HENT: The award was established to increase the focus on talent Tomas has become a role model within HENT and has played development in our companies’ management groups. The year’s a significant role in developing HENT’s overall technical competwinners are: itiveness and winning new important orders. Eva Heyerdahl, 43 Senior Manager Business Development at Aibel Eva has evolved into a dedicated leader and has successfully negotiated major contracts, including the NOK 8bn Johan Sverdrup contract. Olli-Pekka Laakkio, 27 Product Manager at Ledil Olli-Pekka is one of the world’s most recognised designers of LED-based street light optics. His creativity and innovative thinking has been instrumental in developing the product portfolio and a key factor in Ledil’s successful journey of Tomas Jonsson Eva Heyerdahl Olli-Pekka Laakkio global growth. 14 Ratos 2015 Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos aims to broaden its equal opportunities efforts to Portion of our employees who took part in some include a diversity perspective, efforts that will intensify in activity together with our 2016 and the future. partners in 2015. While there is normally no risk for serious physical 33% injury at Ratos’s office, there is a risk for stress-related illnesses. Ratos takes a preventive approach by encouraging health-promoting activities, for example, by offering fitness subsidies, medical and health insurance and preventive health exams. Good management and streamlined methods are also in focus. Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship and business development are key components in Ratos’s history and the core of today’s operations. Sick leave is generally low Inkludera Invest, with which Ratos started a collaband was in 2015: oration in 2014, is a non-profit organisation that works 3.3% to combat marginalisation in Sweden by backing social entrepreneurs who have developed solutions to social challenges. In addition to providing the organisation with financial support, Ratos’s employees assist Inkludera Invest’s entrepreneurs by acting as mentors, sounding boards and support as well as holding workshops on Sharing best practices corporate governance, for example. Every year Ratos conducts a number of initiatives to CEO Susanna Campbell participates in the Royal stimulate the transfer of knowledge and exchange of best Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences’, IVA’s, project practice between different companies, sectors and employPrince Daniel’s Fellowship and Entrepreneurship Proees through, for example Network Days, Chairman Forum, gramme, a project aimed to encourage and inspire young CEO Summit, CFO Summit and Ratos Talent Award. people to consider entrepreneurship as an option. Involved in community development Development of young people Ratos’s community involvement is founded in our 150Ratos has cooperated with Mentor Sweden since 2006 and year history where long-term responsibility has been a is today one of its main partners. Mentor Sweden works to natural part of our operations. Ratos strives to contribute give young people a strong self-image and a brighter future to a world where people have the opportunity to make a outlook by offering various mentorship programmes and difference by changing and developing companies, sectors activities for parents. During the year, Ratos’s employees and society. have inspired and spoken to students about their own work By merging hearts and heads in our day-to-day work, and taught business skills and codes together with Mentor. our employees lend their time and expertise in business development and entrepreneurship to contribute to variMoreover, Ratos provides financial means, resources and ous public activities and projects with which Ratos has an time to a variety of organisations that advocate education established collaboration. and research, and that counteract marginalisation in society. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2015 15 GRI Index Ratos’s sustainability reporting refers to calendar year 2015 is and preThis is Ratos’s firs sustainability reporting according to GRI and Ratos pared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) guideintends to report annually. lines for sustainability reporting, version G4 at the Core level. Ratos has In line with the Global Compact (GC) commitment, Ratos used relevant sections of GRI G4 Sector Disclosures, Financial Services. submits a Communication on Progress (COP), that presents the task GRI INDEX CORE LEVEL WITH FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR DISCLOSURE – GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Read further in the UNGC Indicative Comments annual report, page principles Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement of CE about the relevance of sustainability 2–3 Organisation profile G4-3 Name of the organisation 71 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services Inside cover, 6–7 G4-5 Head office (the building) 71, back page G4-6 Countries where the organisation operates or that are specifiInside cover, 16, 32 cally relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 25–27, 134 G4-8 Markets served by the organisation Inside cover, 16, 32 G4-9 Organisation scale Inside cover, 19–20, 32–33 G4-10 Employee data by employment contract and gender Ratos’s operations are not divided into regions, but are only in 19 6 Sweden. Ratos does not have seasonal employees. Consultants, including industrial advisors, are not included in employee data. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective All employees, regardless of form of employment, in the parent 3 bargaining agreement company are covered by collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Description of supply chain Ratos’s purchases include services and products to office operations in Stockholm and consultancy in the acquisition and sales processes as well as development procedures. These operate primarily in the Nordic countries. G4-13 Significant organisational changes during the reporting period No significant changes during the year and this is the first report. regarding size, structure, ownership or value chain G4-14 Precautionary policies and approach The precautionary principle is followed and refers to assessment 7 and management of sustainability risks in connection with investments. G4-15 Endorsed external regulatory frameworks, standards or 13, 15, 142–143 principles G4-16 Membership in organisations The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Swedish Venture Capital Association, the Private Equity and Venture Capital Associations in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland, and Swedish Leadership for Sustainable Development Identification of significant aspects and limitations for these G4-17 Entities included in the consolidated financial statement 127, 134 G4-18 Process for defining report content and implementation of the 13–14, 142–143 reporting principles G4-19 List of material aspects 142–143 www.ratos.se/en/sustainability G4-20 Material aspect boundaries within the organisation 142–143 www.ratos.se/en/sustainability G4-21 Material aspect boundaries outside the organisation 142–143 www.ratos.se/en/sustainability G4-22 Effects of restatements of information from earlier reports This is the first sustainability report; no significant changes have been made related to the information provided in earlier reports G4-23 Significant changes from the previous reports in scope and See above. aspect boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 List of engaged stakeholders with whom the organisation 13 has a dialogue G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 13 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including the Stakeholders have not be specifically consulted for the 13 process of sustainability reporting preparation of the sustainability report G4-27 Key topics raised through stakeholders and how the 13–14 organisation has responded Accounting parametres G4-28 Accounting period 142 G4-29 Date most recent previous report This is the first sustainability report; no significant changes have been made related to the information provided in earlier reports G4-30 Accounting cycle 142 G4-31 Contact person for the report Jenny Askfelt Ruud, Head of Sustainability, +46 8 700 17 00 Elin Ljung, Head of Corporate Communications, +46 8 700 17 00 G4-32 GRI Index 142–143 G4-33 Policy and practice on external assurance The sustainability report is not subject to external review Governance G4-34 Governance 15, 77–78, 80–81 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values, principles and ethical guidelines 8, 14, 16, 18 10 16 Ratos 2015 Sustainability and responsible ownership of implementing GC’s principles. This index describes where the GRI An active sustainability programme for Ratos’s parent company is a and COP information can be found in Ratos’s Annual Report 2015. prerequisite for Ratos’s ability to develop companies and their sustainaThe sustainability report is prepared based on GRI’s principles in bility performance during the period of ownership. order to determine content and ensure quality. The report covers Stakeholder dialogues and materiality analysis are the basis for Ratos’s Ratos as an investment company, i.e. the parent company Ratos. sustainability issues. Ratos’s direct impact is considered very slight in Ratos has a significant ownership in the portfolio of companies. relation to the portfolio companies’ impact, which is why reporting However, a key principle in Ratos’s owner model (described in Ratos’s Ratos’ work as responsible investor and owner has top priority. “WithOwner Policy) is that each company acts strategically, operationally and in the organisation” refers to the parent company Ratos, “outside the financially independent of each other. Furthermore, Ratos is not perorganisation” refers to Ratos’s companies and their operations as well petual owner to its companies, but instead has an active exit strategy, as other parts of the value chain. See also index per aspect. which means that the composition of the portfolios changes every year. GRI INDEX CORE LEVEL WITH FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR DISCLOSURE – SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Aspects, DMA Read further in the UNGC OmisExplanation and indicators Comments annual report, page principles sions for omissions Environmental indicators Emissions – boundaries within and outside the organisation G4-DMA Sustainability governance – generic Aspect 14–16 7–9 specific – Are there specific national legislation or other regulations for emissions? Off-setting to achieve targets? G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions scope 2 Includes power consumption and distance 14, Ratos’s Climate 7–9 Emission Not relevant heating (cooling is not relevant). Base year Report 2015 from 2014. For calculation method, including greenwww.ratos.se/en/suscooling house gas see Ratos’s Climate report 2015. tainability G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions Includes business trips by plane, train, taxi, 14 7–9 Other Not relevant (scope 3) travel by leased and private cars as well as office hotels, office material/paper consumption material, and waste and water from the property. such as Ratos’s emission within scope 1 from leased consumacompany cars, are included in scope 3, bles EN17. Base year 2014. For calculation method, including greenhouse gas see Ratos’s Climate report 2015. Social indicators – Working conditions Training and talent development – boundaries within the organisation G4-DMA Sustainability governance – generic 8, 13–14, 16, 18–20, 80 3–6 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular 20 3–6 performance and career development reviews. Diversity and equal opportunity – boundaries within the organisation G4-DMA Sustainability governance – generic 8, 13–16, 18–21 G4-LA12 Employees, Board and management compo19, 83–84 3–6 Age Not relevant sition broken down in diversity indicators distribution in % Social indicators – Society Anti-corruption – boundaries within and outside the organisation G4-DMA Sustainability governance – generic 14, 16, 80–82 10 Aspect specific G4-SO3 Business units analysed for 16 10 risks related to corruption. Compliance – boundaries within the organisation G4-DMA Sustainability governance – generic 14, 16, 80–82 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total During the year Ratos has not been 14 number of non-monetary sanctions for issued material fines or received any noncompliance with laws and rules. other sanctions due to violations of laws or regulations. Social indicators – Product portfolio FS Product portfolio – boundaries within the organisation G4-DMA Sustainability governance – generic 8–10, 13–16, 80–82 1–10 Sector specific FS6 Percentage of the portfolio based on the 32–33 1–10 Sales by Not relevant investment portfolio – region, scope, sector business (Ratos only area has ownership through portfolio companies) Active ownership – boundaries within the organisation G4-DMA Sustainability governance – generic Voting is used as an integrated part of 8–10, 13–16, 80–82 1–10 Sector specific governance of the portfolio of companies, where environmental and social issues are included FS10 Share of the companies in the portfolio that 15 1–10 the organisation has interacted with on environmental or social issues Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2015 17 Ratos AB (publ) Drottninggatan 2 Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm Tel +46 8 700 17 00 www.ratos.se Reg. no. 556008-3585
