Yaşar 2015 21 Sustainability Report 0 Index 02 Chairperson’s Message 03 Chief Executive Officer’s Message “People should work for contributing to their 04 About The Report 05 Material Sustainability Topics countries and to the development. It’s the life to me!” 08 About Yaşar Group 08 Yaşar Group At a Glance 09 Our Mission and Corporate Values 10 Corporate Profile 12 Important Developments In 2015 13 Recognitions Selçuk YAŞAR Caring for Business Caring for Employees 16 Economic Performance 56 Profile of Employees 18 Sustainability Management 63 Employee Rights 20 Corporate Reputation Management 63 Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination 20 Stakeholder Dialogue 63 Appropriate Working Conditions 21 Methods of Communication with Stakeholders 65 Rights Offered to The Employees 22 Memberships 66 Employee Development 24 Ethics and Compliance 66 Training and Development Activities 24 Corporate Management 67 Performance Management System 26 Business Ethics 68 Carrier Management System 26 Anti-Corruption Practices 68 Leadership Development Programs 27 Risk Management 69 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Caring for Society 69 OHS Boards 30 Consumer/Customer Health and Safety 70 Work Accidents and Lost Days 31 Increasing Access to Healthy Food Caring for Business Partners 32 Customer and Consumer Informing and Ethical 74 Supply Chain Management Marketing Caring for Environment 32 Customer and Consumer Satisfaction 82 Environment Management 34 Quality, Innovation and R&D 83 Water Management 34 Quality Management 85 Energy and Climate Change 36 Management Systems 86 Waste Management 38 Innovation and R&D Studies 92 GRI G4 Content Index 40 Sustainable Agriculture and Stock Breeding 96 UNGC Principles 40 Producer Support Programs 42 Animal Welfare 44 Contribution To Local Economy 45 Promotion of Turkey Trademark 46 Community Investment 46 Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation 47 Pınar Institute 52 Sponsorships 53 Yaşar University Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 1 Chairperson’s Message Chief Executive Officer’s Message Sustainability Is a Journey We Care for Every Ring of Our Value Chain Parallel with the rapid change in our world, our The business world is being reduction target for 2020 and have economic, environmental and social settings subject to a radical change and developed carbon reduction strategies. are changing rapidly. Therefore, I know and see transformation due to the gameFurthermore we announce average that it is not possible to be competitive unless changing developments, which can be carbon emission rate of the companies sustainability is made a part of the business summarized as digitalization, Industry of Yaşar Group every year. Again systems and decision making processes. 4.0, internet of objects. with this awareness, we have started water footprint calculations in 4 of our We always emphasized two points in our The on-going change and facilities. We recently included Şanlıurfa sustainability reports, which we prepared transformation affects not only the factory into the water footprint and shared in a more comprehensive way in business world, but also the individual calculations this year. Furthermore, we comparison with the previous years, since life of each of us. Furthermore, it prepared our water risk reports. 2009. The first point we have stressed is that brings opportunities that are useful in sustainability is a journey. This journey can reach better understanding our world and our Believing the importance of the targeted results when it is made in stakeholders. transparency in sustainability, Pınar has co-operation with our stakeholders. The second been the first dairy products producer At this point, the United Nations is making sustainability a part of our business participating in both CDP (Carbon defined the sustainable development processes. Sustainability has to be adopted from Disclosure Project) and CDP Water concept with a brand new approach the room of board of directors to the photocopy Program, with these efforts attention and the targets were determined under rooms and the entire value chain has to be is drawn to the reduction of risks for a 17 headings. The new approach and managed with this understanding. sustainable world. the targets provided important hints The awareness of sustainability has been raised to the business world to revise its Since the importance of social peace, through workshops and training programs we strategies. co-operation and mutualization is have held in our value chain. The expectations of understood better in the world we As the companies of Yaşar Group, our stakeholders from us have been understood established the “Yaşar Volunteers which closely follow up on the in a better way via face to face or on-line surveys Platform” in order to support the international developments, we drew conducted among our stakeholders. Hence, we voluntary efforts and our own our new roadmap within the frame of were able to include our shareholders in our volunteers. Upon the completion of our our Sustainable Development Policy sustainability journey. volunteers’ training we gave a start for without compromising our ethical, the projects which are compliant with We revised our action plans by reviewing our accountable and honest business our corporate values. Our main purpose sustainability strategy. Our regulations, recruitment understanding, which we have is to benefit from the impact created processes and all other relevant documents were sustained since our foundation. by Yaşar companies “for a better life” reviewed with a sustainability focus. We decided The companies of Yaşar Group are to meet the social needs. Our studies to start the Sustainability Competition in order sharing the value they created “for a carry on aiming to form a project to increase the number of our good practice better life” by “caring for” each ring of which utilizes our employees’ voluntary examples. the value chain. contribution in the form of time and While our efforts for struggle against climate labor in such a way that this time and We are well aware of our responsibility change in terms of environment sustainability are labor can have even more profound towards our business, the society, continuing, our priority is effective resource use, effects on the society. our consumers, our employees, especially in terms of water. Empowering women our environment, customers and We give special importance to our is in our focus whilst creating a fair and safe work business partners within the scope of projects, which help to improve the environment providing equal opportunities. sustainability. skills and knowledge of our women While sharing the value that we created “for a employees to empower women. We know that our responsibility is far better life” as Yasar Group companies with all our beyond legal compliance. With this We are very pleased to present Yaşar stakeholders in the value chain, we will continue awareness, we voluntarily signed UN 2015 Sustainability Report prepared providing our safe and high quality products to our Global Compact in 2007. With this in compliance with GRI G4 reporting consumers as we have done since our foundation awareness, we calculate the carbon standard to our stakeholders. with sustainable business models. footprints of our 10 companies every Mehmet Aktaş Mustafa Selim Yaşar year without any legal obligation. Chief Executive Officer Chairperson of Board of Directors We have declared carbon emission 2 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 3 About The Report About The Report Material Sustainability Topics Material Sustainability Topics G4-17, G4-18, G4-27 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report covers our approach towards Compilation and preparation of data related with our report In 2015 it was decided to update the existing sustainability priorities of Yaşar Group with a more systematic point of view and a material topics that are of importance both for the future was performed under the management of Corporate Affairs comprehensive materiality assesment was performed in line with this purpose. targets of our Group and for our stakeholders as well as our Coordinatorship Department and Extended Sustainable While determining the material sustainability topics of Yaşar Group, both strategic sustainability priorities and the matters, which studies and performance in 2015. Development Committee, with the contributions of the the stakeholders of Yaşar Group companies consider to be material, were taken into consideration. relevant units of the companies, acting within Yaşar Group Yaşar Group, which issued the Communication on Progress and included in the report scope. The report is not subjected Yaşar Group Materiality Assesment Stages Reports in 2009 and 2010 and thereafter, “Yaşar 2011” to external audit. Mikado Sustainable Development Consulting “Yaşar 2012”, “Yaşar 2013” and “Yaşar 2014” Sustainability supported the preparation of the report. Reports, performs its reporting works within the frame of UNGC principles and Global Reporting Initiative-GRI criteria. The works carried out under the leadership of our 1. Determination of the Relevant Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report has been prepared using the Chairperson of Board of Directors, involved the following; Sustainability Topics GRI G4 Guidelines-Core option. The Report also uses GRI G4 • Extended Sustainable Development Committee, Food Processing Sector Disclosures. With this Report, we also declare our commitment to the UNGC Principles. • Sustainability Reporting Team Members, Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report includes the activities and 2. Determination of Sustainability Topics That Have 3. Determination of Sustainability Topics • Carbon and Water Leaders, projects performed in the country by 10 domestic companies, Strategic Priority for Yaşar Group That are Material for the Stakeholders which are listed under the title Corporate Profile, between • Carbon and Water Footprint Teams. the dates 01.01.2015-31.12.2015. The companies included in The process related with the determination of material our Group, but based in abroad are not included in the report topics included in our report is shared under the heading scope. 75% partnership share of Dyo Printing Inks, which is 4. Consolidation of Results and “Sustainability Priorities”. among the subsidiaries of Yaşar Holding, was sold to Toyo Preparation of Materiality Matrix Ink SC Holdings Co. Ltd. On January 15th 2016. The activities We are very happy to submit our Report, which is prepared in of Dyo Printing Inks in 2015 are also included in the scope of Turkish and English, to you. the report. 1. Determination of Relevant Sustainability In this context, face to face interviews were made with 4 Your feedbacks are important for us … members of Yaşar Holding Board of Directors. The board Topics In addition, the content of the report also comprises members were asked to choose and rank the sustainability You can direct any kind of opinion, recommendation and Yaşar University founded by Yaşar Education and Culture While determining the relevant sustainability topics, GRI G4 topics having strategic importance for Yaşar Group. question you may have about Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Foundation and Selçuk Yaşar Sports and Education Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, GRI Food Processing Report published by Yaşar Group to 19 people, who are in top level management in Yaşar Group Foundation and Pınar Institute. Data generally presented in Sector Disclosures and “Sustainability Topics for Sectors: forabetterlife@yasar.com.tr. the report, however, are not related to those entities. Their companies and who are decision makers, participated in Yaşar What Do Stakeholders Want to Know?” report issued by GRI, activities are included in the report only for information Group Top Management Materiality Workshop. As the result as well as the dynamics in the sectors, where Yaşar Group sharing purposes. of long assessments, the sustainability topics having strategic companies act, and the economic, social and environmental priority were determined from the eyes of top management. impacts of those sectors and Yaşar Group’s economic, social and environmental impacts and the feedbacks received from While prioritizing the topics, the economic, social and the stakeholders directly or indirectly in time, have been environmental impacts created by Yaşar Group; the risks and used. opportunities created by the relevant sustainability topics; the reflection of the topics on the long-term performance of 2. Determination of Sustainability Topics Having the company were among the matters that are taken into Strategic Priority for Yaşar Group consideration. Discussions and workshops were held at the level of Consolidating the priorities of Board of Directors and Top both Board of Directors and Top Management in order to Management, the sustainability topics that are found to have determine the topics having strategic priority for Yaşar Group. strategic priority for Yaşar Group were determined. 4 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 5 Material Sustainability Topics Material Sustainability Topics 3. Determination of Sustainability Topics That are Material for the Stakeholders 4. Consolidation of Results and Preparation of Materiality Matrix G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 Yaşar Group, which acts in many sectors, has a very wide stakeholder network. In order to determine the material sustainability Yaşar Group Materiality Matrix is created by placing the topics having strategic importance for our Group and the topics having topics for our stakeholders, different stakeholder dialog tools were used in compliance with the nature of the stakeholder group. priority for our stakeholders into the matrix. In this context; Yaşar Group Materiality Matrix • A total of 212 stakeholder group representatives were accessed through 9 workshops. low • Face to face interviews were made with 13 public representatives and 6 NGO representatives, corresponding to a total of 19. Protecting Natural and Cultural Inheritance • The representatives of a total of 73 institutions were accessed through 9 two-stage online questionnaires. Animal Welfare Bio-Diversity The stakeholder groups to be included in the materiality assesment were determined together with our Group companies, Preventing Corruption and Social Investments Contribution to Unfair Competition Emissons taking the effect and accessibility factors into consideration, and care was paid to select the person and institution to be Local Economy Environmental and Social Compliance of Suppliers interviewed so as to represent the stakeholder group. Diversity, Equal Opportunity and Non-discrimination Investments and Payment for Environmental The list of our stakeholder groups, which participated in Yaşar Group materiality assesment, their distribution to our sectors of Ethic and Compliance Protection Importance for Stakeholder activity and the stakeholder dialog tool used are given in the following table. Sustainable Purchase Sustainable Agriculture and Stock Breeding Yaşar Holding Food and Beverage Coating Tissue Papers Trade and Service Water Management Group Group Group Group Waste Management Employees Employees Employees Employees Employees Employee's Development Economic Performance (workshop) (workshop) (2 workshop) (workshop) (workshop) Consumers Coating Masters Customers Customers* Employees' Rights Energy Efficiency (2 workshop) (workshop) (online questionnaire) (online questionnaire) Customers Direct Customers Suppliers Consumer/Customer's Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety (online questionnaire) (online questionnaire) (online questionnaire) Quality, Innovation, R&D/Product and Service Suppliers Dealers high Excellence (online questionnaire) (online questionnaire) Civil Society Suppliers high low (online questionnaire) (online questionnaire) Strategical Importance Public Civil Society In accordance with this, the list of the sustainability topics are material for Yaşar Group and their scopes are given in the (face to face interview) (face to face interview) following table. Public Material Sustainability Topics Scope (face to face interview) Quality, Innovation and R&D Yaşar Group Companies *Since a sufficient number of stakeholder representatives could not be accessed, the results are not included in the materiality assesment. Consumer/Customer Health and Safety Yaşar Group Companies The relevant sustainability topics were shared with our stakeholders through the performed workshop, face to face interviews Economic Performance Yaşar Group Companies and questionnaires and they were asked to rank the topics they consider to be material. Furthermore, sustainability training Ethics and Compliance Yaşar Group Companies was provided for the participants at the workshops, hence a better efficiency was ensured in the workshops. The studies have Employee Rights Yaşar Group Companies been very useful in terms of understanding the expectations of the stakeholders from Yaşar Group, as well as learning their Employee Development Yaşar Group Companies recommendations and strengthening our dialog with our stakeholders. Occupational Health and Safety Yaşar Group Companies, Sub-contractors The obtained results were grouped and consolidated on company basis, hence, the sustainability topics, which our stakeholders Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Yaşar Group Companies consider to be material, were determined. Sustainable Agriculture and Stock Breeding Yaşar Group Companies, Farmers Sustainable Supply Chain Management Yaşar Group Companies, Suppliers Water Management Yaşar Group Companies Energy and Climate Change Yaşar Group Companies Waste Management Yaşar Group Companies While determining the contents of Yaşar 2015 Sustinability Report, the sustainability priorities of Yaşar Group were taken as basis. Some topics, which have relatively low priority in Yaşar Group Materiality Matrix were included in the report to the extent they are related to the topics that are determined to have high priority. 6 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 7 About Yaşar Group About Yaşar Group About Yaşar Group Yaşar Group At a Glance Our Mission and Corporate Values Corporate Profile The Group’s principal business lines consist responsibility projects. Yaşar University is Our values within the frame of our mission, of food and beverages and of coatings. With among the leading universities of Turkey with which is defined as adding value to the Corporate Name 20 companies, 24 factories and facilities, 2 its education in line with the international lives of consumers by providing high quality Yaşar Holding A.Ş. charitable foundations, and approximately standards. products and services with our trusted brands 7500 employees the Group is also active in are: Our Consumers and Customers Come Business Segments The Yaşar Group also creates social benefit business lines such as tissue paper, tourism, First, Our Operational Excellence, Our Human Food-beverages, coating, with the involvement of corporate social energy, trade and services. 6 of Yaşar Resources, Our Ethical Stance and Our agricultural production, responsibility projects. Based on the Holding’s subsidiaries are traded on the Environmental and Social Responsibilities. tissue paper, trade awareness of being a corporate citizen all of Borsa Istanbul: Pınar Dairy, Pınar Meat, Pınar Yaşar Holding Sustainable Development services, energy our efforts touching people in their daily life Water, Dyo Coating, Viking Tissue and Altın Policy has been defined on the basis of are aimed at having a sustainable world with Number of Employees Yunus. The head office of Yaşar Holding A.Ş. our mission and values. Following the the motto of “for a better life”. In this regard, 7.500 is located in İzmir. international developments with the principle our Group manages all business processes of not compromising our ethical, accountable Date of GC Membership The Yaşar Group has been a pioneer in on the sustainability axis and reports those Following the and honest business understanding and November 12th 2007 Turkey with its two best-known brands most activities under the principle of transparency. international serving to the sustainable development noticeable by consumers. Our Group which By joining the signatories of United Nations targets are the main foundations. Allowing developments with Address leads the sectors in which it is included has (UN) Global Compact (GC) in 2007 Yaşar our employees to improve themselves while the principle of Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No:120 35210 Izmir, Turkey realized important investments with Pınar Group prepared its Communication on providing a fair working environment for not compromising and Dyo brands supported by TURQUALITY® Progress Reports in 2009 and 2010 within them, supporting the local while providing our ethical, Program. the frame of UNGC. Sustainability Reports Authorized Person and high quality products and services for the accountable and Position are accessible at www.yasar.com.tr and have The Group, which was opened to the been issuing every year since 2011. needs of the society, protecting the local honest business Dilek EMİL, values, contributing to the progress of international markets in 1970s for the first understanding Coordinator, society with the collaborations we developed time, is competing with the world trademarks Empowering of women is one of the most and serving to Corporate Affairs in Europe with Pınar Foods GmbH, which was are the other elements of our Sustainable important item in our agenda that we focus the sustainable founded in Germany in 2000. Pınar reaches on and follow closely. Increasing the personal Development Policy. While performing all Contact Details those activities, our priority is to measure development the consumers of Middle East and the Gulf and professional progress of the both our Phone region with HDF FZCO, which was founded in our environmental impact, to improve it, and targets are the women employees and the women included +90 312 294 92 00 Dubai in 2000. in our supply chain is among our targets. to contribute to the protection of natural main foundations. Our support continues to empower the resources. Furthermore, it is indispensable E-mail Dyo Coating is continuing its investments for our Sustainable Development Policy to women through the initiatives in which we dilekemil@yasar.com.tr abroad with Dyo Balkan (Romania), Kemipex continue supporting the improvement of take apart. With this regard “CEO Support (Russia) and Dyo Africa (Egypt), which are its new generations through investments in Declaration for UN Women’s Empowerment affiliated partnerships acting abroad. education, culture and art in the future, as in Principles” was signed in 2012. “The Equality at Work Platform”, which is brought to the the past. Our Group gives importance to social development as much as economic agenda by the World Economic Forum, and Within the frame of our Sustainable www.yasar.com.tr development, by supporting education, which is continued under the leadership of Development Policy, Yaşar Group companies sports, culture and art through Yaşar the Ministry of Family and Social Policies, and is sharing the value it created “for a better Education and Culture Foundation and Selçuk the “Work Group for Empowering of Women” life” by “caring for” each ring of the value Yaşar Sports and Education Foundation, and that is founded by Global Compact Turkey chain. is producing social benefits with the social Board of Directors are among the formations, in which our Group is included. www.unglobalcompact.org/ participants/detail/10228-YasarHolding-Co8 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 9 About Yaşar Group About Yaşar Group Corporate Profile Food & Beverages Coatings Tissue Papers Trade and Service Group Group Group Group Yaşar Birleşik Dyo Boya Altın Yunus Çeşme Pınar Süt Mamulleri Pınar Entegre Et Pınar Su Sanayi ve Çamlı Yem Besicilik Viking Kağıt ve Yaşar Bilgi İşlem ve Desa Enerji Elektrik Pazarlama Dağıtım Fabrikaları Sanayi Turistik Tesisler Sanayii A.Ş. ve Un Sanayii A.Ş. Ticaret A.Ş. San. ve Tic. A.Ş. Selüloz A.Ş. Ticaret A.Ş. Üretim A.Ş. Turizm ve Ticaret ve Ticaret A.Ş. A.Ş. (Pınar Dairy) (Pınar Meat) (Pınar Water) (Çamlı Feed) (Viking Tissue) (Astron) (Desa) A.Ş. (YBP) (Dyo Coating) (Altın Yunus) Publicly Traded Publicly Traded Foundation Year 1973 1985 1984 1983 1983 Foundation Year 1954 1969 1974 1983 1996 Headquarter Izmir Izmir Izmir Izmir Izmir Headquarter Izmir Izmir Izmir Izmir Izmir Izmir, Istanbul, Izmir, Kocaeli, Factory Izmir Izmir(3) Izmir(4) Izmir(3) Antalya, Bodrum/ Manisa Izmir, Eskişehir, Aydın, Sakarya, Factory Izmir Muğla, Adana, Izmir, Manisa(2) 1.021 Şanlıurfa Isparta, Bursa Ankara, Trabzon, Total Capacity 260.000 ton/year 45.800 ton/year person/ 10,4 mW Samsun(1) accomodation 310.000 ton/year Dyo, Dewilux, Premia, Lily, Senso, Brands Astron Total Capacity raw milk in 58.000 ton/year 1.800.000 ton/year 322.048 ton(5) 335.000 ton/year Casati Select, Pufla processing # of SKU 15.700 141 3 Çamlı, Pınar Balık, Employment 1.060 369 238 110 21 Pınar, Brands Pınar Pınar Pınar Biofarm, CoolDog, Distribution and 220 dealer + Nar’ca 800 dealer Aegean Region Bioaqua Service Network direct customer # of SKU 500 500 16 600 396 www.altinyunus. www.desaenerji. Web www.dyo.com.tr www.viking.com.tr com.tr www.astron.ws com.tr Employment 1.172 1.092 452 1.187 467 EU Countries, Central 100+ dealer, Distribution and 566 dealer, Asian Republics, via YBP via YBP 150.000'e sales 209 dealer EU Countries, Gulf Germany, Balkans, Service Network 12 distributor Africa, point Foreign Trade Countries, Middle England, Greek, Central America, Web www.pinar.com.tr www.pinar.com.tr www.pinarsu.com.tr www.ybp.com.tr www.camli.com.tr East, Africa Scandinavia, Iran(6) Middle East and Gulf EU Countries, USA, Countries Gulf Countries, Middle East and Gulf EU Countries, EU Countries, Turkic Republics, Countries, Russia, Middle East and Gulf (1) Regional Directorates Foreign Trade Gulf Countries, USA, (2) Factories & Plant USA, EU Countries, Turkic Republics, Countries, Russia, Far East (3) Plant TRNC Far East, TRNC, USA, Far East (4) Offices Australia, Canada (5) Total Sale Amount (6) Customers’ Country Origins 10 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 11 About Yaşar Group About Yaşar Group Important Developments In 2015 Recognitions Dyo Coating • Improvement of Animal which includes caring, feeding, and • Yaşar Holding has been one of the companies awarded by • In the research on the “Most Favored Companies of Welfare: With the investment and breeding to produce healthy and high the Ethical Values Center Association with “ETİKA Ethics Turkey”, which was held by GFK and Capital Magazine, Dyo Coating which ranked 145th rising infrastructure works performed in the quality raw milk. Awards of Turkey 2014”. Pınar Dairy was the most favored company in the “Dairy 12 steps in the ranking of 500 Big cattle slaughterhouse and paddocks, Products” sector. • Yaşar Holding was awarded by the Sustainable Production Industrial Organizations of Turkey, Cleanroom and packaging investments our animal health and welfare and Consumption Association and Energy Efficiency • Aegean Region Chamber of Industry (EBSO) Award which was announced in 2015 based were made for new product series such practices reached to the top level. Association with “Low Carbon Hero” prize, due to the Ceremony assessing 2013 performance was held on on the numbers of 2014. On the other as “On the Go” and “Open and Eat Up” As a result of third party audit our carbon reduction works carried out in the scope of its January 16th 2015. Pınar Dairy, Pınar Meat and Pınar Water hand according to the “Fortune 500 in Izmir Factory. New line investments systems excellence was verified. sustainability approach. were awarded with a total of 12 prizes. Pınar Dairy was Turkey” list announced by Fortune were made for “UF Cheese” product in • Altın Yunus was honored with the International Blue Flag awarded as the winner in the following categories: “Highest Turkey Dyo Coating with the 2014 net Pınar Water Eskişehir Factory. Award in 2015 due to its full compliance with the Blue Flag Export”, “Highest Investment”, “Highest Production” sales figure has risen to the 222nd rising Believing the importance of and “Provision of Highest Employment in Production”. In December, 2015, Bursa facility for criterias such as the cleanliness of the beach and sea water, one step. transparency in sustainability, Pınar Furthermore, it has become the fourth in the category Natural Spring Water with Recyclable the equipment and services of the facility, environmental Package was opened. By this way, our Dairy has been the first dairy products management approach and environmental training hold by of “Big Firm Success Award In Tax”. Pınar Meat was Pınar Meat recyclable product capacity increased to producer participating in both CDP Altın Yunus. awarded in the meat, fish and meat products industry with • İzmir, Kemalpaşa-Ören Breeding 568.000 tons/year from 335.000 tons/ (Carbon Disclosure Project) and CDP the winning prize in the categories of “Highest Export”, • Altın Yunus was awarded with Zoover Bronze prize by Farm: Cattle breeding was decided year, with a 70% increase. Water Program. It ranked first among “Highest Investment”, “Highest Production” and “Highest Zoover Travel Comments Site in 2015. in 2015 to make sustainable raw the volunteers in CDP 2015 Climate Employment in Production”. Furthermore, it has become Pınar Dairy • Pınar was awarded with the Superbrands prize given to the materials available for supply chain. Change Turkey Report. the second in “Big Firm Success Award in Tax” category. best trademarks of Turkey in 2015. The existing paddock areas were • Pınar Water has been awarded as the runner-up in In 2015, a new dairy plant investment Viking Tissue • Pınar was awarded with three prizes by Stevie Awards, re-designed so as to ensure animal Beverage Industry Profession Group in the categories has been taken in to operation which is among the most reputable awards of the world. welfare and the works were started In 2015, modernization works were of “Highest Investment” and “Highest Employment in in Şanlıurfa, which is the largest Pınar Childrens Theater was awarded with Silver Stevie in April, 2015. Approximately 20.000 performed in Viking Tissue on PM1 Production”. food investment ever made in the in “Europe Corporate Social Responsibility Program of the m paddock areas and auxiliary 2 (Paper Machine 1). As a result, the • In the Crescent and Stars of Packaging Competition 2015, Southeastern Anatolia region. We Year”. Pınar Institute’s Project Sütümüzün Geleceği Bilinçli enterprises were completed in machine capacity was increased by Pınar was awarded with the silver prize in graphic design produce milk, ayran and fruit juice Ellerde (The Future of our Milk is in Conscious Hands) was August. Upon completion, the 20%. category with its Special Cheese Family. in this plant. This plant is designed awarded with Bronze Stevie in the “International Business first lot of breed was taken to the to accommodate the increase in the YBP Awards” category. Pınar Painting Contest was awarded with • In 2015 Effie Turkey Advertisement Activity Contest, which farm. For the full integration of the diversity of products according to Bronze Stevie in the section of “Communication Campaign was held by the Advertisers and Clients Association, Pınar breeding farm a biogas facility has In 2015 YBP established an important needs, by using energy efficient and of the Year-Media Relations”. Milk for Children was awarded with “Silver Effie” with the been projected to be realized to co-operation with Kahve Dünyası which campaign “Triple Support for the Nutrition of your Child” in nature-friendly technologies with full • Pınar Dairy Izmir Plant was awarded as the most efficient produce renewable energy with an is one of the leading cacao and coffee the “Basic Food” category. automation. The Company increased its industrial enterprise decreasing energy density by 65.3% in environmental friendly approach. producers of the world to sell and raw milk processing capacity by 18% the food and beverage sector by the Ministry of Energy and • Pınar became the first winner of the Gulf 2015 “Product of distribute its products. • The investment on a closed area upon completion of this investment. Natural Resources in the 15 Project Contest on Industrial th the Year” prize. This contest awards the world leading firms of 6.500 m2 including “Auxiliary Pınar Dairy purchases raw milk from In the same year, organizational Energy Efficiency. in fast moving consumer goods category every year. Labne Material Warehouses, Product Şanlıurfa as well as other surrounding structure and work models were (mild cream cheese) is one of the category opened for the • As a result of the research on “Measurement of Reputation Warehouses, Production Building, provinces and districts. We held changed to respond to the structural first time this year. and Trademark Value Performance” made by both Social Facilities, Cooling Supply trainings for all producers in the region market modifications. Restructuring Marketing Turkey Magazine and Akademetre Research • Viking Tissue was awarded with 5 prizes by EBSO in Building” was completed and by the participation of Pınar Institute was made to increase the focus and Company, Pınar was awarded with “Leadership in Beverage January 2015. Viking was awarded with “Superior Sale commissioned in March, 2015. and Çamlı Feed. performance on Consumption Outside Sector” in “Integrated Marketing Price”. Performance” and Runner-up Prizes for Production, Export, Sustainable improvement on food Home (COH). Furthermore new Employment, and Investment in the Tissue and Tissue Our target is to make contribution to • Pınar Balık, was awarded with “Superior Taste Award” by safety, occupational health and arrangements have been embraced Products Industry. the development of dairy sector in the ITQI (International Taste and Quality Institute), which safety, environment and energy with the expectation to increase region through our training meetings was performed with the blind tasting test of the chiefs and management has been achieved the service quality and efficiency in sommeliers, who are opinion leaders in their area. through this investment. distribution lines. 12 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 13 “Following the path of science, and constantly improving ourselves producing the best. That’s why we exist.” Selçuk YAŞAR Caring for Business Economic Performance Economic Performance Economic Performance 2015 was a difficult year for both the world and Turkey Even if it has become difficult to reach the export targets 31.12.2015 31.12.2014 especially since developing countries’ shares on the growth due to the developments in the nearby geography and the Directly Produced Economic Value 3.197.930 2.965.811 have been decreased. However Turkey manage to grow diminishing demand in Russia, Azerbaijan and Northern Iraq Incomes 3.197.930 2.965.811 with a very low rate despite the volatility in cross-rates and Markets, we managed to export to more than 70 countries in Revenue (net sales) 3.197.930 2.965.811 interests and besides the risks and uncertainty experienced 2015, to obtain a 2% and a 10% percent growth in coatings Distributed Economic Value 2.965.953 2.774.674 for a long time in the region. The decreases in the commodity and food and beverage business lines respectively. Operational expenses *** 2.578.070 2.419.253 prices have resulted in a positive impact for our country as a Besides that, a 24% (TL 128 million) increase was ensured in Wages and fringe benefits **** 336.307 312.494 net importer in raw material. investment comparing to 2014. A total investment of TL 158 Payments to the shareholders ***** 37.381 29.464 On the other hand, 2015 has been a year, during which million was made in 2015, consisting of 77,7% in the Food Payments to the States (on country basis) ****** 14.195 13.463 our Group performed controlled growth. With the existing and Beverage Group, 13,3% in the Coatings Group, 4,6% in Retained Economic Value 231.977 191.137 conditions, Yaşar Group was focused on stable markets Tissue Papers Group and 4,4% in other areas. rather than risky products and customers and has exhibited With the sale of 75% of Dyo Printing Inks, which is one of The amounts are in Turkish Liras (“TL”) unless otherwise specified. a prudent attitude. Our priorities have been efficiency and the subsidiaries of Yaşar Holding, to Toyo Ink SC Holdings The information based on 2015 Yaşar Holding Consolidated Independent Audit Report. cost optimization, working capital and effective liquidity Co. Ltd, which is among the leading ink producers of the *** The cost of the sales, marketing expenditures, general management expenditures and R&D expenses in the consolidated income tables have been taken as management, healthy management of competition and operational expenses. world, we expect an increase in business volume both in the **** The personnel expenses are included in Footnote 29 of the consolidated report are taken into consideration within the scope of the wages and fringe benefits market risks. domestic and foreign markets. of the employees. ***** The paid dividend amount in the cash flow table of the consolidated report is used for payments to shareholders. The Group taking into consideration of all its stakeholders, ****** The amount of taxes paid in advance in Footnote 38 of the consolidated report is used in the item of payments to the States. operates with a transparent, fare, accountable and responsible manner has had a net sale of 3.198 million TL in 2015. While 72,7% of those sales came from the Food And Beverage Group, 21,9% of it from the Coatings Group. The The Capital Structure of Yaşar Holding A.Ş as of December 31st 2015 and 2014 rest was shared within the Tissue Papers Group and the trade and Service Group with 4,1% and 1,3% respectively. Shareholders Share (%) 31 December 2015 Share (%) 31 December 2014 Hedef Ziraat (*) 67,06 151.510 67,03 151.460 Members of Yaşar Family 23,74 53.640 23,74 53.640 Other 9,2 20.793 9,23 20.843 Total Capital 100 225.943 100 225.943 Capital Correction 177.339 177.339 Total Paid Capital 403.282 403.282 (*) The main partner of Hedef Ziraat is Yaşar Family. There are 22.594.316.100 (December 31st 2014: 22.594.316.100 shares) shares, each being worth of 1 Kr. There is no privilege applied for different share groups and certain shareholders. All of the issued capital is paid. 16 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 17 Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Sustainability Management Our Sustainability Development Policy In this respect, we disseminate the ethical, accountable and Group in a general sense. In the meantime the Committee was established in 2015 in order to transform the knowledge, honest management understanding, which are in compliance assesses the risks and opportunities to improve the skills and experiences of the employees into social benefits. Our values within the frame of our mission, which is defined with the Sustainable Development Targets, and we continue sustainability strategy and the implementation tools. Another as adding value to the lives of consumers by providing high The Executive Board of Yaşar Volunteers Platform which is to operate by taking into consideration the needs of the target of the Committee is to have employees who are quality products and services with our trusted brands are: responsible for structuring, started working to attract the consumers and the society. In the Group, we give a big trained for taking a part in the sustainability process. All the Our Consumers and Customers Come First, Our Operational employees for voluntary projects. First, a questionnaire importance to the development of the employees and their assessments raised in the regularly hold meetings are being Excellence, Our Human Resources, Our Ethical Stance and was shared with more than 2,000 employees in the Group happiness. reported and actions are taken to meet the emerging needs. Our Environmental and Social Responsibilities. and later a training session was held for the first group Furthermore, our sustainability activities are also supported Being aware of our ecological footprint and especially our of the employees who declared their interest in becoming Yaşar Holding Sustainable Development Policy has been by the Committees on Energy and Prevention of Waste. carbon and water footprint we try to observe a balance volunteers. Following the training session, the volunteers defined on the basis of our mission and values. between the use and protection of the environment knowing In the sustainability works of our Group, the international started developing their own projects with the intention of Based on the principle of “not compromising our ethical, the fact that we are responsible for the way of how our norms and criteria are taken as a reference. Thus, the Group realizing their first project in the year 2016. accountable and honest business understanding” business partners operate in our value chain, we work on joined the signatories of UNGC in 2007 and prepared its “following the international developments and serving to improving their awareness on this issue. Communication on Progress Reports in 2009 and 2010. GRI the sustainable development targets with our business (Global Reporting Initiative) standard has been adopted Based on the sustainability policy, our strategy and the lines” by our Group emphasizing the importance of an open targets are determined and supported at the level of Board of communication with the stakeholders. Hence Our Yaşar 2014 are the main foundations of Yaşar Holding Sustainable Directors. The implementation of this strategy is ensured by Sustainability Report was graded at B level by GRI in the Development Policy top management. scope of G3.1 criteria in 2015. “Allowing our employees to improve themselves Our Group, originating from the understanding “you cannot The data included in our Sustainability Reports is provided while providing a fair working environment for them”, manage what you cannot measure”, has formed Carbon and by the Sustainability Reporting Team Members, Carbon and “supporting the local and protecting the local values, while Water Footprint Teams and designated the leaders for the Water Leaders and the Teams. providing high quality products and services for the needs sake of carbon and water footprint calculations. of the society”, Based on the “caring for society and our employees” The greenhouse gas inventory management system practices, understanding, which is an indispensable part of our “with the help of our developed collaborations which were launched in 2014 and which allows gathering sustainability strategy, projects are being developed for contributing to the progress of society“, the data on the Group companies in a single system and the personal and professional improvement of our women their instantaneous follow-up, were completed and their employees and the women involved in our supply chain. “while performing all activities being sure to measure application was started in 2015. Our target for the next “CEO Support Declaration for the UN Women’s Empowerment our environmental impact, to improve this impact and to period is to complete the water footprint management system Principles” signed in 2012; “Equality at Work Platform”, which contribute to the protection of natural resources”, and to make the calculations online for instant follow up. was brought to the agenda by the World Economic Forum, “continue to support the improvement of new generations Sustainable Development Committee was established as a and carried out with the leadership of the Ministry of Family through investments in education, culture and art in the result of “Corporate Reputation Project”, launched in 2010. and Social Policies; and the “Work Group on Empowering future, as we did in the past”, Sustainable Development Committee has been functioning of Women” established by Global Compact Turkey Board according to the priorities set up in the leadership of Board of of Directors are very inspiring in the development of these are the essentials of our Sustainable Development Policy. projects. Directors. Within the framework of Sustainable Development Policy as The Group adopted a new structure for the corporate While ensuring the coordination of sustainability works, Yaşar Group we share the created value “for a better life”, voluntary activities which will directly contribute to the the Sustainable Development Committee encourages the By “caring for” the “society, our consumers, employees, implementation of the sustainability strategy, by fulfilling development of the social dimension of sustainability with the environment, customers and business partners in our targets and adapting the sustainability approach with in the understanding of caring for society. Yaşar Volunteers Platform value chain”. 18 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 19 Corporate Reputation Management Stakeholder Dialogue Methods of Communication with Stakeholders Corporate Reputation Stakeholder Dialogue Methods of Communication with Stakeholders G4-24, G4-26 Management G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 Stakeholders Communication Platforms Communication Frequency Corporate reputation management has reached a much Due to the sectoral necessities of our Group we have more strategic point for the organizations with the increasing established a network which consists of a wide range of Trainings, Yaşar Academy Training awareness level of the consumer and the diversification in stakeholders, where mutual interactions are at its origins.. Platform, employee opinions the communication channels. Today, new channels rising questionnaire, bulletins, internal We are developing long-term collaborations and establishing communication materials, over the Internet are added to the traditional communication open communication with our suppliers, shareholders, public Our Employees recommendation systems such as Dyo Regular/Frequent tools, hence, corporate reputation management found a new institutions and organizations, international organizations, Red Chair practice, competitions, social ground for itself. sector associations, NGOs, universities, printed and visual activities such as Pınar'a Gidiyorum While Internet technologies are developing at an media, and especially our employees, customers, consumers (I’m going to Pınar), sustainability unprecedented pace, this situation has also resulted in and business partners. Our stakeholders, with whom we are reports conditions which are difficult to manage. The information in interaction, are engaged with the feedbacks of the relevant Satisfaction questionnaires, telephone flow coming from hundreds of different sources requires the departments of our companies and taking into consideration calls, communication and call centers, companies to take rapid actions for the sake of reliability of the sectors, in which the companies of our Group act. We are Our Consumers Continuous/Frequent social media accounts, sustainability such information. regularly reviewing our stakeholder map and communication reports methods. We believe stakeholder feedbacks as valuable Yaşar Group companies, are continuing corporate reputation guides in the development of our method and processes of Annual reports, sustainability reports, management over all channels by taking into consideration business. CDP Climate Change Report, CDP Water the opinions of its stakeholders and integrating the Our Investors and Shareholders Report, investor presentations, general Regular obtained results to the business processes and corporate board meetings, Internet sites, which approach. The Group aims to provide correct information also include Investor Relations modules to the consumers and customers by taking rapid actions Supplier trainings, dealer meetings for any expectation and needs. Our Group, which has a and trainings, factory visits, customer settled culture in terms of good governance, business visits, satisfaction questionnaires, ethics, corporate values and social contribution, follows a Our Customers, Suppliers and participated congresses, meetings and communication policy that is based on transparency and Regular/Periodic Dealers panels, telephone calls, communication reliability under all those headings. and call centers, dealer portal, Different venues which enable the participation of our dealer satisfaction questionnaires, employees in every step of the corporate reputation efforts sustainability reports are of high importance to our Group companies. Visits, legislation opinion notifications, Public Agencies and Organizations, sector meetings, congresses, Originating from the fact that corporate reputation NGOs and Associations of conferences and seminars, developed Regular/Frequent management has to be monitored with a systematic Membership joint projects, sector reports, structure, “Corporate Reputation Project” was launched in sustainability reports 2010 and Corporate Reputation Committee was established in this context. Press bulletins, visits, press meetings, Media Regular launchings Carrier days, conferences and panels, activities of university clubs and Universities Regular societies, internship opportunities provided in the Group companies Collective Bargaining Agreements, Union union representation, factory visits, Regular meetings 20 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 21 Memberships Memberships Memberships Our Group companies believes in coAdana Commodity Exchange Bursa Chamber of Commerce and Global Relations Forum People Management Association of Turkish Poultry Meat Producers and operation depending on deliberation Industry Turkey Breeders Association Aegean Exporter Unions* International Chamber of Commerce and simultaneous growth with the Bursa Commodity Exchange Professional Association of Musical Turkish Quality Association* stakeholders, which eventually results Aegean Industrialists and Isparta Chamber of Commerce and Carton Board Packaging Expositor Turkish Spas Thalasso and Health in sustainable values. We therefore Businessmen’s Association Industry Manufacturers Association Proffesional Association for Owners of Resorts Association are in cooperation with the sectoral Aegean Region Chamber of Industry Istanbu Chamber of Commerce Cattle Breeders’ Association of Turkey Musical Works Turkish Veterinary Medical Association NGOs where Yaşar Group companies Aegean Region Chamber of Industry Istanbul Chamber of Industry Proffesional Association of Eligible are active and in which we present Foundation Central Anatolian Exporters Union Turkish-African Business Council – Istanbul Commodity Exchange Producers of Phonograms Related to contribution to the local, regional and Aegean Touristic Business and Chamber of Agricultural Engineers Foreign Economic Relations Board Istanbul Mineral and Metals MUYAP sectoral development through these Accomodation Association Turkish-American Businessmen Chamber of Chemical Engineers Exporters' Association Pulp and Paper Industry Foundation* NGOs. Aliağa Chamber of Commerce Association Chamber of Electrical Engineers Izmir Beef and Lamb Producers Sakarya Chamber of Commerce and Turkish-Eygpt Businessmen Besides mandatory memberships, Aluminium Surface Treatment Association Chamber of Food Engineers Industry Association such as chambers of commerce, the Association Izmir Chamber of Agriculture Chamber of Independent Accountants The Association of Listed Companies’ Turkish-Gulf Business Council associations in which we are voluntary American Business Council and Financial Advisors Izmir Chamber of Commerce Executives* members of act as equally strong TURKTRADE* American Turkish Council Chamber of Mechanical Engineers Izmir Commodity Exchange The Association of Paint Industry* formations in the sectors. These UN Global Compact (UNGC) Ankara Chamber of Commerce associations, provide contribution Chamber of Sworn-in Certified Public Izmir Industrialists’ and The Chemicals, Petroleum, Rubber UN Global Compact Turkey Ankara Commodity Exchange Accountants Businessmen’s Association and Plastic Industry Employers’ to local, regional and sectoral Association of Turkey* Union of Dairy, Beef, Food development, and have a strategical Antalya Chamber of Commerce and Corporate Management Association Izmir Union of Aquaculture and Industrialists and Producers of importance for our Group. Industry of Turkey Fishery* The Institute of Internal Auditing Turkey* Antalya Commodity Exchange Çeşme Torism Hoteliers Association Kemalpaşa Organized Industrial Site Turkey World Economic Forum Association Consumption Outside Kocaeli Chamber of Industry The Union of Chambers and ÇEVKO Foundation* Home Commodity Exchanges of Turkey Dubai Chamber Of Commerce Learning and Development Association of Advertisers* The Valley of Kağıthane-Ayazağa Association Dubai Turkish Business Council Urban Development Association Association of Cuisine Amicable Manisa Chamber of Commerce and *The organizations, in whose board of Environment Education Foundation of TOBB Global Standards Center directors we are involved. Association of Family Owned Business Industry Turkey Manisa Organized Industrialists Turgutlu Chamber of Commerce and Association of Infant Food Eskişehir Chamber of Commerce Association Industry Manufacturers* Eskişehir Chamber of Industry Marine Chamber of Commerce Turkish Economic Association Association of Packaged Dairy Ethics and Reputation Society* Mersin Commodity Exchange Turkish Exporters Assembly Products Industrialists* Association of Thermal Insulation, European Business Council National Food Technology Platform Turkish Feed Manufacturers’ Waterproofing, Sound Insulation European Coil Coating Association Association National Milk Board and Fireproofing Material Producers, (ECCA) Turkish Food and Beverage Industry National Red Meat Council Suppliers and Applicators European Food Information Council Association* Nazilli Chamber of Commerce and Association of Turkish Construction Federation of Western Anatolia Turkish Food Safety Association* Industry Material Producers Industrialists and Businessmen Turkish Industry and Business Organic Product Producers and Association of Turkish Travel Agencies Associations Association Industrialists Association Aydın Chamber of Industry Foreign Economic Relations Board Turkish Investor Relations Society Packaged Water Manufacturers Bar Association Foundation of Economic Researches Turkish Marine Environment Association* Protection Association Bornova Association of Farmer Assets Fruit Juice Industry Association Packaging Manufacturers Association Bornova Chamber of Agriculture Gebze Chamber of Commerce Paint Research Association 22 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 23 Ethics and Compliance Ethics and Compliance Ethics and Compliance Corporate Management Executive Officer, is responsible for all execution activities the investors and the shareholders within the scope of of Yaşar Holding to the Board of Directors. Furthermore, all the Legislation on Capital Market. Within the frame of At each stage, during which the companies continue their processes and responsibilities related with the management the relevant legislation, the shareholders, the public and activities, a responsibility to the parties, in which they are in and organization structure are defined in “Yaşar Holding other beneficiaries are informed in time, in a correct, a relation, occurs. Corporate management, which creates an Corporate Management Manual” and the business ethics understandable way and with accessibility under equal understanding among the company management, board of approach is determined with Yaşar Holding Business Ethics conditions with the informing policy published on the directors, shareholders and all parties having a connection Rules Manual and the employees of our Group have to Internet site of our company, which is created on the basis with the company, is based on the frame of principles such comply with this Manual. of transparency and accuracy. In this context, the wage, as transparency, responsibility to stakeholders, justice and indemnification, profit distribution and donation policies of equality. “Yaşar Holding Corporate Management Manual” defines those companies can be accessed from the Internet sites the corporate management operation principles and the Corporate management, which is regulated and whose of the companies. On the internet site of Yaşar Holding, decision-making processes of the Board of Directors and scope is determined with laws ensures an increase in the information on the areas of activity of the companies of the execution, it also determines the authorities and good management practices worldwide. The corporate our Holding is included and detailed information on the responsibilities of the Board of Directors as well as the management practices in our country are carried out by the companies of our Group, which are open to public, can sub-committees and their roles. The principles of agenda Capital Market Law and the Corporate Management Principles be accessed from the “Investor Relations” modules. The determination and voting in the Board of Directors are also Notification of the Capital Market Board (SPK). corporate management process of our companies, which included in that Manual. are open to public, and the progresses obtained within such Yaşar Group reflected the corporate management process, are submitted to all stakeholders and the public with Various systems have been established in order to allow our understanding, which it assumes to be a very important the Corporate Management Principles Compliance Reports, employees make recommendations or give advices to the top factor for the sustainability of its companies, to all its which are prepared within the frame of Capital Market management of the company. activities together with its vision and prediction from the Legislation and which are included in the annual activity past to today, its deep-rooted and strong corporate values Auditing Sub-Committee, Early Risk Detection Sub-Committee reports. and culture, ethics understanding, compliance with the laws and Corporate Management Sub-Committee carry out and legislation. In the Group, it is targeted to manage the their activities in affiliation to the Board of Directors of The Committee for Auditing, the Committee for the Early interests of all beneficiaries in the best way. The corporate Yaşar Holding, which consists of 6 members. There are Detection of Risk and the Corporate Management Committee, management structure adopted in Yaşar Group is being two independent members in the board of directors of the are included in the companies of Yaşar Group, and are continuously reviewed within the frame of the Corporate companies of Yaşar Group, which are open to public. Those open to public, have been established within the frame Management Principles. These principles were published independent members comply with all independence criteria of the Capital Market Legislation together SPK Corporate by SPK in 2003 and then revised in 2005, also with the included in article 4.3.6 of the Corporate Management Management Principles; and the Candidate Presentation amendment made in 2011, many provisions have become Principles, which is in the attachment of SPK’s II-17.1 Committee and Wage Committee have been structured within obligatory for the companies publicly traded. SPK Notification, Corporate Management Notification. the Corporate Management Committee. which was updated at the beginning of 2014, re-regulated the Furthermore, in four of our companies, which are open to Yaşar Holding, which has taken important voluntary steps Corporate Management Principles and finalized them. public, there are two female members of Board of Directors about the application of best management approaches In 2015, the corporate management grades of Pınar Dairy, and there is one female member of Board of Directors starting from the dates, when corporate governance Pınar Meat and Pınar Water, which are included in Borsa in other two companies. This situation is an indicator of principles were not on the agenda in Turkey, manages the İstanbul Corporate Management Index, were revised upwards our compliance with the Corporate Management Principle “Corporate Reputation”, which has been created as the result reaching 9,18, 9,20 and 9,37, respectively. numbered 4.3.9, which is not obligatory. Furthermore, of long years, and continuous creating sustainable for its committees required by the legislation are also established stakeholders and on a wider sense for the society with its The responsibilities of the Executive Chief Office and the affective and proactive applications. within the Board of Directors. Board of Directors of Yaşar Holding are separate which is in compliance with OECD Corporate Management Principles. In all companies of our Group, which are open to public, The Chairperson of Board of Directors does not have any Investor Relations Department is established in order to executive duties in the company, and Yaşar Holding Chief ensure a healthy and reliable communication between 24 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 25 Ethics and Compliance Risk Management Risk Management Business Ethics • To pay maximum attention to ensure that the company’s In the globalizing world of today, the determination of risks This approach provides a competitive advantage to data, assets, and records are kept accurately and to treat and making preparations for those risks have become an companies while assuring stakeholders that company assets Business ethics draws a boundary for operating in accordance them as confidential and not to use them for obtaining a approach that handles the issue just in one dimension. are well preserved and improved. with principles and the values of society. In societies evolving personal benefit, The connection of risks with each other, the effect of within multiple social and cultural dynamics ethical guidelines Internal audits are regularly conducted within our Group long-period trends on risk formation and remedying are ensure that universal values such as equality, transparency, • To ensure that all Yaşar employees protect social benefits companies in order to help achieve their targets by providing the important factors determining risk management. The and impartiality are upheld by the business community. and respect the environment during their all activities, a systemic and disciplined approach intended to evaluate process of classification of risks have a specific feature for and increase the efficiency of the risk management and Respecting social values in the geographical area in which it • To adopt a life style that would not create a negative the corporations acting within the frame of different business control processes. These audits enable us to determine if operates, the Yaşar Group acts in accordance with business impression about the company and not conflict with social models in more than one sector. the processes function is in line with the attainment of our ethics and ensures transparency within the framework of rules both within and outside of the workplace. Our Risk Management Understanding Group’s goals and objectives. In addition, results related to those principles. “Business Ethics Rules Manual”, which was Anti-Corruption Practices performance effectiveness and efficiency provide information drawn up in 2009 and printed as a manual and distributed Corporate risk management is regarded as a systematic about potential improvements in those areas. to all employees of the Group in 2010, is a manifestation of All companies within the Yaşar Group fight against all forms process which identifies, analyzes, controls, and monitors the Yaşar Group’s approach to business ethics. This manual of corruption, including bribery and extortion and fulfill their risks in companies which are members of the Yaşar Group. is used for orientation training for newly recruited employees all obligations to prevent corruption. This management concept ensures that unforeseen risks and and training on business ethics is provided through Yaşar negative effects on the companies’ assets can be controlled. Academy, the Yaşar Group’s online learning platform. The employees of the Yaşar Group are required to work in compliance with the “Yaşar Group’s Business Ethics Rules • To identify existing risks by analyzing all operations, In 2015 a total of 402 hours of training was provided for Manual.” business units, and profit centers of the companies, business ethics rules. In Group companies 9 full scope and 27 limited scope audits • To set up a risk management structure for ensuring a The employees of our Group companies are encouraged were realized at 25 functions. systematic and continuous process, by clearly defining and to inform the Ethics Committee, made up of a total of five maintaining roles and responsibilities, members, including a chairperson who is a director of the In our reporting period only 2 employees involved in our companies have been dismissed with regard to business • To assess already existing controls in order to avoid risks Yaşar Holding, three members from the Yaşar Holding’s top ethics and ethical rules, and one of them has pursued a legal with known causes and results, management, and a secretary-general, about any noncompliance with or breach of business ethics by email, letter, complaint. • To design new and effective controls and putting a longor telephone. Any issue reported to the Ethics Committee is term effective risk management and monitoring process There were no concluded legal cases involving the company resolved within one week in accordance with rules laid down into practice, or its employees in corruption during the report period. Only in the guide. 2 employees who were either in our or third parties’ payroll • Strengthening inner corporate communication will allow the Only one complaint was submitted to the Ethic Committee in were faced with some penalties with regard to the business risk management process to be systematic and dynamic, 2015 and the case has been solved upon the completion of principles and our business ethics rules. necessary examinations. • In order to reach strategic targets and ensure sustainable In the reporting period, there are no public suits opened in profit risks should be consistently and conveniently Yaşar Holding Business Ethics Rules relation with corruption against our Group or its employees. managed. In this light, a common risk perception should be There has not been any violation case in relation with created among the Group. • To work in a safe work environment ensuring respect for corruption in our contracts with our business partners. There the rights of others without permitting any discrimination, is no lawsuit that is in progress and not decided on about The above mentioned bullet points are among the objectives prevention of acts in violation of competition, trustification of risk management processes within our Group. • To make an efficient use of the company’s resources, and prevention of monopolies. • To avoid any conflict of interest, The strengthening of in-house control awareness and • To comply with competition rules set forth in laws and to precautions for deterring the possible abuses that may compete against rival companies without distorting market occur against the companies is aided within the scope of the conditions, auditing activities. • To ascribe importance to customer satisfaction and to be always considerate and honest toward customers and consumers, 26 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 27 “It’s not me, it’s us!” Selçuk YAŞAR Caring for Society Consumer/Customer Health and Safety Consumer/Customer Health and Safety Consumer/Customer Health and Safety As Yaşar Group, we accept the health and safety of our Pınar Meat The Daily Meeting Ratio (DMR) and voluntary labeling system One bottle of Pınar Denge Natural Mineral Water meets 54% customers as our first priority and we have the target of shows the percentage of recommended daily intake levels for of the daily calcium need and 16% of the daily magnesium adding value to their lives with our products and services. The data that we follow on our process lines within the the energy and nutrients that is met by one portion of a food need. Pınar Denge Mineral Water Vitamin C lemon and scope of our food safety and quality management systems that the consumer buys from a market shelf. This labeling is Vitamin C Bodrum Mandarin types meet 100% of the daily Our operation and products are being regularly audited by are being analyzed using statistical analysis programs and used in 10% of Pınar trademark products in average. 95% of vitamin C need. R&D studies for mineral waters with fruits public institutions, and within the frame of the standards that the process performance and efficiencies are improved in our products has nutrient elements table. and with reduced energy (sugar) instead of fruit-aroma we are subject to. Full compliance is ensured with any kind line. The studies for online quality recording and monitoring mineral waters are continuing. of legal regulations related with the health and safety effects software that is compliant with SAP system are launched with YBP of our products and services, and with the rules created by Astron (YABİM) and Yaşar University. With this program, the Pınar Dairy A joint project was prepared with Pınar Meat within the our Group. No incompliance cases were encountered in the data will be recorded with tablets on the process line and scope of improvement of our processes from production to The product category of Pınar Dairy majorly consists of reporting period. all information including the monitoring data on a product the shelf for protecting the consumer health and within this dairy products. This product category is located as “naturally will be instantaneously accessible in the system and it will Good Examples And Developments From frame, two new warehouses were constructed for both frozen healthy” and does not have any direct relation with obesity be possible to assess the process data online. Furthermore, Companies and delicatessen products. Hence, the process, which was when assessed in terms of consumption. In our existing stationery products will be saved and an environmentallyperformed with transfers within Pınar Meat Campus and İzmir product portfolio, salt and fat reduction studies are performed Dyo Coating friendly approach will be exhibited, and at the same time, the was reduced to a single point. The delivery to the agencies on our cheeses and applications has been launched and in foreign material risks that may be caused by those materials Regulation on Biosidal Products based on 98/8/EC Directive and chain canal customers is also provided from a single the following period alternative sugar and salt reduction will be prevented. requires product license and labelling line with the regulation. point. studies will be continued. Especially in the category targeting License applications that were started in 2013 for Teknoplast, Quality, R&D and marketing teams are carrying out joint children, low sugar, and additive-free and protective-free Increasing Access to Healthy Food Dyojen and Nanoipek opaque products were completed in studies about the communication of the inputs and food products will be targeted in compliance with our “Sağlık 2014-2015. element information of Pınar Meat products to our consumers Comprehensive works are being performed in the Food and Pınarım” (My Health Spring) mission. and customers beyond the legal obligations. For this Beverage Group of our Group in order to increase access by Besides, following the prohibition of formaldehyde and Pınar Dairy has continued its functional product production, purpose, besides the legal obligations, EU directives are our consumers to healthy food products. Reduction of sugar dibutil ftalat in Europe, their use was stopped and product which it launched in 1998 with Denge Lactose-free milk, being examined, and the applications in the domestic and and salt ratios of our products; development of products that formulations were revised accordingly. Denge Calcium A, D, E Milk, Denge Probiotic-Prebiotic yogurt, foreign markets are followed up both through visits and by are enriched in terms of nutrient values and the development with various product launchings until today. Furthermore, For all of our construction materials supplied to markets with using data programs including the information on the new of products for people with different food preferences and Kido Triangle Cheese with mineral and vitamin addition TS standard requires a G document. This document shows and existing products on the shelves in the entire world sensitivities are some of these works. was developed to serve to the nutrition requirement of the compliance of our construction materials. The G sign is used such as Mintel. Furthermore, the requests coming from our Pınar Meat children; Pink Relax was placed as a beverage especially for on the product package labels ensuring full compliance with consumers and customers to Pınar Communication Center are women. Pınar Child Follow-on Milk, which is still the most sold the legislation. assessed and the communication information to be included Our studies for reducing the salt amount in all our products product in the market, was presented to the customers in the on the package is determined, the design is prepared in line are carried into effect. Furthermore, our studies for reducing form of a series. Dyo who takes EU implementations into consideration in the with our procedures including all work steps, and the package the sodium in our emulsified products (sausage, salami etc) R&D activities reduced the amount of VOC (volatile organic design is completed after obtaining approval from all relevant Our special products, which are produced in compliance with are continuing. 55% salt reduction is ensured in our products. compounds) in the products and made all water-based units through the intranet program that we use. our “Sağlık Pınarım” mission, are; Denge Lactose-Free Milk, Since the salt amount in other products is compliant with the products fully complied with the 2004/42/EC Directive. Denge Lactose-free yogurt, Denge Calcium ADE Milk, Kido Pınar Dairy salt value technology, no salt reduction study was performed. Mineral and Vitamin added Triangle Cheese, İlk Adım FollowThe companies are required to comply with ADR (European Voluntary notifications such as the energy and nutrient Pınar Water on Milk, Child Follow-on milk, Organic UHT Milk, Organic Agreement Concerning the International Carriage of elements table and Pınar Communication Center contact Yogurt and Organic White Cheese. Dangerous Goods by Road) for loading, unloading and Pınar Denge Mineral Waters are among mineral waters with transportation of Dyo products. Dyo have made the planning information as well as the obligatory label information are low sodium. Low sodium does not mean that sodium is for the elimination of deficiencies in product transportation provided on the labels of our products. reduced. The neat mineral water is bottled as it comes out and have kept an ADR Security Consultant in its facilities. of the spring. The sodium ratio differs in accordance with the Furthermore checklists for both raw materials taken into properties of the underground soil in the place of the spring. plants and products sent away were prepared and became Pınar Water ensures mineral water production over a firm, on effective in early 2015. which it performs all quality and food safety controls. 30 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 31 Consumer/Customer Health and Safety Customer and Consumer Informing and Ethical Customer and Consumer Satisfaction “The brand that I can recommend to everyone”, “Quality score of Pınar brand was 30% in the delicatessen category Consumer/Customer Health and Safety Marketing brand”, “the products are worth the paid money”. and is the first among all its big competitors in the market. The companies included in our Group are measuring Furthermore Pınar ranks first among its competitors with a Information on our products and services is provided to our customer and consumer satisfaction irregular intervals Pınar Meat is working with research agencies in order to total familiarity score of 98%. In the indicators, where the consumers and customers through various channels such as and are taking necessary corrective actions. Customer and regularly measure its brand value, customer satisfaction brand image is assessed, Pınar is the leading brand with 73% our labels, advertisements, internet site and social media. consumer satisfaction surveys are important tools for us to and brand image value. With the latest study performed in ratio in the perception of a “quality brand”. Its “a reliable obtain stakeholder feedbacks, and they play a critical role in November 2015 period, “the first brand that comes to mind” Each of the companies of our Group is subject to different brand” score is 72% leading all its competitors. Pınar Su perfecting our products and services. product/service information regulation and labeling rules 2015 customer satisfaction score was 91%. As the result depending on the nature of the sectors. The companies of 3.229 people attended to the 2015 customer satisfaction of the tasting test performed in 2015 in Pınar Dairy’s ayran our Group show 100% compliance with all regulations and survey of Altın Yunus and the satisfaction ratio was 86%. category, Pınar Ayran was liked by 75% of the consumers rules related with product/service information regulations Çamlı Feed 2015 customer satisfaction ratio was measured and has shown a higher performance than the other brands and labeling. No incompliance case was encountered in the as 84%. In Dyo Coating scope, customer satisfaction for included in the test. On the other hand, the research is being Dealer Traditional 80% 82% reporting period in relation with this matter. Çiğli Factory is 94% and for Dilovası Factory it is 93%. Viking performed not only for following up the performances of the Tissue plans customer satisfaction surveys once every two existing products, but also for ensuring that the new products Sharing the information on our food products with our to be released are products that are compliant with the years and the next survey will be held in 2016. consumers through the labels is subject to the Turkish Food consumer preferences and that will create satisfaction. For Codex Labeling Regulation provisions. The provisions of that Customer satisfaction surveys dated 2015, which included example, Pınar cottage cheese, which was released in 2015, regulation and the Labeling Guide issued by the Ministry in YBP scope, were applied to 2.569 customers with closed YBP was determined and released as the most liked product by of Food, Agriculture and Stock Breeding, determine the envelope. In the questionnaires, which are applied on 4 having different alternatives tested by the consumers prior to information that must be included on the label of a food channels as Consumption Outside Home (COH), Modern, launching. product. Dealer and Traditional, the satisfaction ratios were 86%, COH Modern 86% 83% 83%, 80% and 82%, respectively. Besides this, activities are performed in compliance with the legislation related with the promotion and marketing The customer requests and complaints received by Pınar of our products. While our products are promoted through Communication Center (PCC) through the telephone advertisements and other marketing communication tools for number 444 7627, which can be called from any point in our customers, actions are performed with a responsibility Turkey without dialing an area code, are answered live by Dyo Coating of awareness. In the “Advertisement Clients Association”, of the operators between 07:00-23:00 seven days a week, which we are a member, Advertisement Self-Control Principles and information is provided to the consumers within the are compiled in parallel with the international applications. shortest possible time about the communicated matters. Call This way, active efforts are shown to ensure that our responding success ratio of PCC is 92% and PCC responds PCC Çiğli Factory Dilovası Factory advertisements are legal, ethical and honest. In the reporting period, there has been a case resulting in incompliance with to 88% of the calls within 15 seconds. In accordance with the results of the satisfaction questionnaire applied on the 91% 94% 93% the regulations related with marketing communication, and consumers in 2015, PCC’s satisfaction ratio is 91%. PCC the legal process is in progress. examines and solves the requests and complaints received over the social media with the official Twitter account at the address twitter.com/InfoPinar and returns to the consumers. Çamlı Feed 84% In accordance with the results of brand monitoring research performed in 2015, Pınar is the first brans that comes to the Altın Yunus 86% minds of the consumers in the sector. It is the brand that Pınar Water obtained the highest score among the brands in the sector in relation with the image expressions expressing consumer 91% satisfaction such as “the brand that I feel myself close too”, 32 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 33 Quality, Innovation and R&D Quality, Innovation and R&D Shakeholder Opinion Quality, Innovation and R&D Quality Management there was no integrated meat production facility in Turkey other than Pınar Meat. Pınar Meat has been the Our Group’s quality management approach is laid on the basis of most suitable facility for cooperation with McDonald’s the understanding “Our consumers and customers come first”. about meat supply in terms of food safety. Our product and service responsibility, together with our operation perfectionism ensures continuous improvement in all areas, where Therefore, McDonald’s decided to work with Pınar we act. Meat, which was the only firm having the potential to comply with the conditions in terms of both production Our “operational excellence”, which is defined among our technology and food safety and management corporate values, is based on the effective use of technology in understanding as a meat producer in Turkey. During all areas, simple work processes, the systematic of performing this partnership, which has been continuing for 30 years defined works, data based and rapid decision making systems. in a developing environment of trust, McDonald’s and This way, we rapidly analyze the needs of our consumers and Pınar Meat played a leading role in the development of Our companies customers and their changing expectations and we respond to meat industry in Turkey and in the determination of the are using the their needs with a proactive and innovative approach. Ahmet Oğuz Uçanlar, industry standards. quality standards McDonald’s General Director Our companies are using the quality standards determined by What do you think of Pınar Meat’s ethics determined by international organizations as well as the standards specific to Can you share your experience on your approach with the eyes of a customer? international their sectors. The frame that is drawn with our corporate values collaboration with Pınar Meat? Even if you have the state of the art production organizations as well as with compliance with those standards allows us to Pınar Meat, had just launched its activities in the technology of the world and produce the most as well as the reach high standards in all our processes. qualified products as a producer, you cannot years, during which McDonald’s made investments standards specific Besides this, the recommendations coming from our consumers, in Turkey. Pınar Meat was both the only integrated cooperate with McDonald’s if your management does to their sectors. agencies and customers as well as our employees also constitute meat production plant in our country and also the only not have clearness, honesty, business ethics, longan important part of developing our quality management producer suitable for ensuring food safety. McDonald’sterm consideration and a competitive partnership approach. This approach finds a correspondence in many Pınar Meat collaboration that started in 1986 in this way, understanding. Because, the partnership philosophy of areas from R&D works to consumer information, from product has been continuing without interruption for 30 years. McDonald’s that is valid for all producers, with which it development to process management. All hamburger meatballs served at our restaurants are works in the entire world, is always based on clearness, being prepared by Pınar Meat on the production line honesty, ethics and mutual win-win understanding. Our quality management approach, which ensures standardization specific to McDonald’s using one hundred percent veal, Partnership understanding is long-term and has the in all our Group companies, provide value for the lives of our final without using any additives including spices and salt, purpose of mutual development. The cooperation consumers, while rising the production standards of our suppliers. in compliance with McDonald’s specifications. Pınar between McDonald’s and Pınar Meat in Turkey has been ISO, Lean 6 Sigma, EFQM Perfection Model are among the tools Meat is continuing to obtain the highest audit scores one of the most beautiful and strongest examples of this we use in our quality management. from independent organizations, which audit the meat situation. suppliers of McDonald’s in the entire world. Did working with Pınar Meat contribute to the McDonald’s always determines the highest standards development of your institution? for all materials it uses and in case there is no facility During the 30-year cooperation period of McDonald’s performing production in compliance with those and Pınar Meat, both firms had important contributions standards, it either encourages the existing facilities to in the development of Turkish food industry. develop so as to meet those standards, or starts the attempts for making a new investment. In the years, during which McDonald’s made its investments in Turkey, 34 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 35 Quality, Innovation and R&D Quality, Innovation and R&D Management Systems The most important tool in ensuring operational excellence With the standards that we apply in many areas such as and continuous improvement in our Group is our quality, food safety, environment, customer satisfaction, management systems. The quality and trust that we present energy, we are continuously developing our management to our consumers and customers are documented basing on systems in order to develop an effective management system internationally accepted standards. and increase monitoring. System Dyo Dyo System Dyo Dyo Pınar Pınar Pınar Altın Viking Çamlı Pınar Pınar Pınar Altın Viking Çamlı Management System Printing Desa YBP Management System Printing Desa YBP Certification Meat Dairy Water Coating Inks Yunus Tissue Feed Certification Meat Dairy Water Coating Inks Yunus Tissue Feed Quality Management System ISO 9001 ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Organic Farming Entrepreneur ● Food Safety Management Certificate FSSC 22000 ● ● System Certificate STD-50-001 ● FSC-CoC (Forest Stewardship Food Safety Management STD-40-004 ● ISO 22000 ● ● ● Council) Management System System Certificate STD-40-007 ● Environment Management US National Sanitation ISO 14001 ● ● ● ● ● ● NSF ● System Foundation Occupational Health and British Retail Consortium BRC ● ● OHSAS Safety Management System ● ● ● ● ● International Food Standard IFS ● 18001 Certificate GLOBALG.A.P. CFM ● Turkish Standards Institution National Britannia NB ● Subcontractor Laboratory ISO 17025 ● TS OIC/ Approval Halal Food Certificate ● ● ● SMIC 1 Customer Satisfaction Friend Of The Sea FOS ● Management System ISO 10002 ● ● ● Good Agricultural Practices EOS ● Certificate Aquaculture Energy Management Systems ISO 50001 ● ● ● ● ● ● GLOBALG.A.P. ● Standard Conformity Assesment McDonald’s SQMS ● General Requirements for TS EN ISO/ ● Turkish Standards Compliance Bodies Operating Certification IEC 17024 TSE TSEK ● ● ● Certificate of Personnel QUALICOAT Class 1 ● Automotive Sector and ISO TS Good Agricultural Practices Sub-Industry Quality ● Aquaculture ● 16949 (ITU) Management System ESMA (UAE Standard) ESMA ● 36 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 37 Innovation and R&D Studies Coating, which increased the number of project researchers Pınar Dairy increased the shelf life of ketchup by completing as “Effects of use of Corn Flour, Rice Flour, Bread Crumbs Quality, Innovation and R&D Quality, Innovation and R&D and increased the number of Çiğli R&D center personnel to transition to material with Coex structure in ketchup package and Rye Flour and Different Cooking Methods in Meatball Innovation and R&D, to which our holding gives strategic 72, and which has a total of 87 R&D employees together with bottles having single-layer material structure. Production on the Product Properties”. The university project importance, is among the areas, where our companies are the team in Gebze, received external support in changing called as “The Effects of Using Quince Puree in Meatball strong, especially in coating and food and beverage branches. In the context of innovative approach two different projects, ratios for the international projects and the studies included Production on Some Product Properties” has been completed. under the TUBİTAK programmes (TUBİTAK 1509 TEYDEP Innovation and R&D investments, which have a great share in in the public support program, although they were majorly Project, International Industrial R&D Project Support YBP the development of local economy, provide competitive power executed with equities in 2015. Programme 2+2 and TUBİTAK 1511 Research Technology for our companies acting in the international market, while Yaşar Group Food Group Companies Reverse Dyo Coating was involved in public support programs for Development and Innovation in Priority Areas) have been slightly opening the door for entrance to new markets. The Logistic Project R&D such as TÜBİTAK-TEYDEB, ARDEB (Research Support carried out. innovative approach, which is followed up in the processes as Programs Department) and San-Tez (Industrial Thesis), with In 2015, the works for improving and developing our logistic well as the developed value added products, strengthen the Çamlı Feed 16 projects. The application and writing process of many new processes continued. One of those projects was “Yaşar Group leadership of our Holding companies in their sectors. similar projects is still continuing. Çamlı Feed prepared designs for 3 new products as follows; Food Group Companies Reverse Logistic Project”. Our market researches, consumer expectations and • New feed formation with high digestibility for 4-5-6 mm Dyo Coating established a Project and Patent Office in R&D The purpose of the project is to prevent the delivery of the demands, the areas that will ensure compared superiority in feeds for the trout, Center in 2015 with the purpose of collecting more project production inputs, which are purchased by Yaşar Group Food competition, legal regulations and cost improvement studies • Works for substitution for soy protein concentrate and fish ideas and for more systematic compilation of those ideas. The Group companies, to the production facilities by the suppliers give direction to our innovation and R&D works, which flour raw material in bass feeds, office serves for the compilation of project ideas within and separately and in a non-systematic way by using their own provide very valuable outputs especially in the economic and • Works for substitution for soy protein concentrate and fish out of Dyo Coating and for the conversion of the ones, which resources. The empty return of our vehicle fleet consisting environmental feet of sustainability. flour raw material in trout feeds are found appropriate, into projects in a faster and more of 130 vehicles used for product delivery, to our production Our Group, which has the purpose of making innovative systematic way, cooperates with Yaşar Holding Patent Office Besides this, in relation with the cattle fodders, it has facilities after making the deliveries has been ended. Instead approach a part of the institution culture, is encouraging any for projects suitable for packaging. designed 2 new milk fodders under the name “Ege Group” of this, our fleet vehicles took all purchased goods. The taken kind of attempts coming from the employees and supporting (Ege Süt 19 and Ege Süt 21), 1 fattening feed (Ege Besi) and over goods were delivered to our production facilities just in Dyo Coating made arrangements in its product portfolio them to submit innovative proposals. 1 calf growing fodder (Ege Buzağı). time and without any damage, and by this way quality was in compliance with EU applications in its R&D activities, increased and logistic cost advantage was provided. Yaşar Group believes that innovation and R&D investments reduced the volatile matter content (VOC) in its products in Jelly ice and pad ice applications are launched in fish provide big contributions to both sector development and compliance with 2004/42/EC directive, which is in force in packaging. The planning of “completely full vehicle” purchases from regional development. The value created in the paint sector Europe, and ensured the compliance of all its water based the suppliers, from whom a high amount of purchase is products for internal and external facades with VOC Directive. Pınar Meat with Dyo Coating R&D center is an important indicator of this made, started to be planned in the application process of the situation. With the Food and Beverage Group R&D Center Dyo Coating closely follows up the REAC process and EU project. After creating a certain discipline, in 2013, almost all Pınar Meat has an equipped laboratory that is capable of that is planned to be established, our R&D capacity will CLP applications and takes the necessary actions and is Food Group suppliers were included in the project and the performing many chemical and microbiological analysis increase more and this will allow us increase the number of among the founder members of R&D Centers Communication project scope was extended. including the analysis indicated in the regulations and our value added products, develop new business models and and Cooperation Platform, which started its activities on notifications related with the sector and is capable of March 31st 2015, for the purpose of finding solutions for the The project gave important results in terms of reducing create opportunities for employment. providing service to TSE with the Certificate of Approval for common problems of R&D centers and developing R&D in carbon emission. In the Food Group companies, in 2013, Laboratory, from which TSE Test Service can be Purchased, Good Examples and Developments From Turkey. a carbon emission reduction of 5.025 tons against a which it obtained in 2008. The Company performs the Companies transportation of 5.200.000 km, in 2014, a carbon emission Pınar Dairy verification of the products, which it produces in line with reduction of 5.790 tons against a transportation of 5.800.000 Dyo Coating HACCP plans, legal requirements and specifications, at its km, and in 2015 a carbon emission reduction of 5.940 tons Pınar Dairy offered 10 new products and 30 products, own laboratories, is following up the compliance of personnel Dyo Coating, which carries out 26% of R&D projects for against a transportation of 6.000.000 km were ensured. whose packages are renewed, in different categories to the hygiene, working environment and all purchased inputs with developing innovative products, designed new products in consumers in 2015 as the result of new product and new the specifications through the analysis performed at the Dealer Tablet Transition (Otonom) Project order to meet the needs of the domestic market and the package works. laboratory. foreign markets. Dyo Coating focuses on products that can be The mobile applications constitute a way to establish industrially produced, commercially sold and that will create Upon the completion of UF Cheese technological investment, In order to follow up innovation and innovating technology connection with the potential customers as well as reaching added value, added new types to all its product groups in it has been presented with a special taste profile to and to adopt and apply sustainable development, joint the existing customers. YBP, being aware of this, launched 2015. consumers. 100 gr package is a first in this category and projects are being carried out with TÜBİTAK and the the Dealer Tablet Transition (Otonom) Project in 2014 in designed for eating up at breakfast. universities. As the R&D department, 3 TÜBİTAK/University order to carry out the work processes at the site in a fast, Dyo Coating, whose San-Tez project in Turkey in paint projects were carried out in 2015 within the frame of our flexible and strong way in the form of a working culture. This production was accepted in 2015, also launched a European The Company started the production of lactose-free yogurt target to carry out a certain number of projects with TÜBİTAK project was awarded with the Quality Award by SAP. Otonom Union project with the partnership of 8 institutions from in 500 gr packages in order to respond to the lactose-free and the universities. Project, which was spread with operations such as orders, 6 countries, and continued its works for the 2 additional yogurt demand in the market and to provide a solution for collections, returns, etc, was spread over to our dealers as of planned projects. the people with lactose intolerance. As of the end of 2015, 1 of those projects was completed and May of 2015. With the trainings for the popularization, which 2 of them are still continuing. Our ongoing projects are 1511 Dyo Coating R&D Center has the target of enriching R&D Pınar Dairy offered Pistachio Breakfast Cream among the we provided with our expert personnel within a short period, program called as “Obtaining Protein Hydrolizate from the works, increasing the number of researchers and their quality fruit-sauced breakfast cream range, in its 100 gr-package in a total of 582 tablets started being used actively at our 93 mechanically separated meat and Use of this Hydrolizate in and producing more information. In line with this, Dyo order to create a difference in the export channel. dealers. Products”-TÜBİTAK Project, and the university project called 38 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 39 Sustainable Agriculture and Stock Breeding Sustainable Agriculture and Stock Breeding Sustainable Agriculture and Stock Breeding The rapidly increasing world population needs increasingly with this mission. Training seminars are held twice a year for the contracted Symposiums and fairs including the monitoring and more food. But the increasing population and food demand organic fodder plant cultivators of Çamlı Feed, Fattening assessment of environmental impacts of fish farms, quality The “Producer Training Meetings”, which that have been held Organic Milk Enterprise. The seminars cover “sustainable and food safety for sea products are being held. At those will increase the big pressure on the resources of our planet. since the foundation of Pınar Dairy, are being performed agriculture” and “organic agriculture” topics. Furthermore, fairs, seminars and symposiums, promotions for the Climate change, the effects of which we feel more every within Pınar Institute with a new configuration as of 2014, under the organic agriculture heading, the necessary equipment, feed additives, and products increasing fish day, creates a threat on agriculture and stock breeding. with the project “The Future of Our Milk is in Conscious practices in order to increase efficiency about matters such welfare and performance are made, the organization of the For the sustainability of agriculture and stock breeding, the Hands”. This Project draws attention in terms of being a as earth workmanship of the cultivated fodder plants, sowing necessary tests and their results are shared. production of qualified and sufficient amount of food must public-private sector-university joint project. and fertilizing, are being transferred to the farmers. be ensured today and in the future; the natural resources must be used carefully and must be protected, the economic In 2015, the trainings on “Animal Breeding”, “Animal Health” Stakeholder Opinion profitability of agriculture and stock breeding activities must and “Hygiene Sanitation” are launched for Tire District of be protected and the life qualities of the producers must be İzmir on November 18th 2015, within the scope of the project our fodder, milking machines, if necessary the machine improved. “The Future of Our Milk is in Conscious Hands” for the milk parts… They also provide training. In this way, they producers. Those trainings were performed for the first time Food, beverage and agricultural production are among provide contribution. We are also getting paid for the in Milas District of Muğla and continued with Eskişehir. With the sectors with priority, in which Yaşar Group acts. Dairy milk we sell. Our milk is valuable in comparison with this project, training was provided to raw milk producers to products, and animal protein which are the fundamental other places; a downward trend has started in other produce high quality milk in an effective way. In the project, products of our Food and Beverage Group, are important places, but it didn’t start in Pınar Dairy. We are getting Ege University Faculty of Agriculture, Ankara University resources for a healthy and balanced nutrition. Yaşar Group paid in time. Veterinary School, Pınar Dairy and Çamlı Feed were included acts with the awareness of its responsibility within the frame among the supporters of the process. A total of 5.000 The milk we provide is checked to see whether it is of supporting sustainable agriculture and stock breeding; producers were accessed and in 2015, the trainings were spoiled or curdled. They do not buy our milk if it is it both shapes its own activities with this awareness and provided to a total of 300 producers. A budget expenditure spoiled, they explain and teach us what to do saying supports and develops all its stakeholders, especially the of 40.000 TL was made for the project in 2015 with the “it is spoiled probably because of this or that, there producers. exception of in kind contribution. The training activities within can be Mastitis”. If it is really Mastitis, they provide the Some of our studies included within the scope of sustainable the scope of this project will continue in 2016. necessary medicine. We would not be able to learn all agriculture and stock breeding are given under the following Melek Çelik, those if we were giving our milk to other places. Pınar Newspaper Milk Producer headings of our report: “Contribution to Local Economy”, Is the amount of returned milk high? “Caring For Business Partners” and “Caring For Environment”. Pınar Newspaper, which is an important source of reference How long have you been supplying milk for Pınar for the farmers performing meat and milk livestock fattening Dairy? Not much, it is much lower in comparison with the past. Producer Support Programs on topics such as livestock fattening, milk technologies, If the milk is returned, it does not return due to disease, “The Future of Our Milk is in Conscious Hands” livestock health etc., and which is published once every three My father in law started working with Pınar Dairy in 80s. it is returned generally due to spoiling because of heat. months, is being prepared for 20.000 producers supplying He continued until 2012. After 2012, my husband took Our milk is always controlled. If the milk is spoiled, it is Pınar Institute is an organization, which is founded with a over this work. Meanwhile, we got married, and I started livestock and raw milk for Pınar. not bought until it is remedied, the firm checks it until it social responsibility understanding for informing the society to look after the animals. In 2016, my husband said “You is good again. And this is necessary. All of us pour our about food, health and nutrition, and with the purpose of Çamlı Feed Producer Trainings can do this job, therefore we should transfer it to you, milk in the same tank. If the milk of any of us is spoiled, contributing to the healthy development of society and which you take care of it, let it be your job” and transferred the Developmental activities are being performed for other then the entire tank becomes useless. has no commercial activities and profit purposes. animals to me. producers, who are included in our supply chain, as well as Did working with Pınar Dairy contribute to the The mission of Pınar Institute is to support scientific milk producers. Çamlı Feed is providing practical trainings What do you think of the approach of Pınar Dairy development of you and the people around you? projects, to be involved in information networks and to about turkey breeding and showing ways for developing the to the producers as a producer? What do you perform educational activities with the purpose of informing coop structures to the farmers, from whom it provides turkey think of the contributions made by the company Of course. Here, trainings are being provided in many the society about food, health and nutrition and creating in the districts of İzmir, Manisa and Muğla in Aegean Region, to the society and your region? places; they tell us the diseases, care and cleaning of awareness of quality living. The institute, which launched its with the turkey breeding production model, for which it has the animals. We become more informed, all of us are activities in 2013, is shaping its projects and studies in line performed all quality and safety controls. We think good about Pınar Dairy. When we have a learning. request, they meet almost all of our needs. They provide 40 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 41 Sustainable Agriculture and Stock Breeding Sustainable Agriculture and Stock Breeding Animal Welfare Indicators Project (AWIN). This study was presented at About fish welfare and the effects of fish farms, research Antalya White Meat Congress, included in the congress projects funded by various institutions, especially TÜBİTAK, One of the topics, to which importance is attached by our brochure and published in Italian Animal Science magazine. are being carried out in cooperation with the universities. Group within the frame of sustainable livestock breeding, is Furthermore, studies such as herbal fodder additives, stressthe animal welfare. Yaşar Holding Food and Beverage Group, Turkey breeding is performed in intensive turkey coops with preventing and supportive vitamins, providing probiotics to gives great importance to animal welfare in excess of the curtains. Although there are coops of different square meters, the fish with the feed etc. are being carried out. relevant laws and regulations and the applications that can 5 female or 3 male animals are kept per square meter and be examples in their sectors are being applied about many female and male animals are being separately bred. Pınar Meat matters. In the reporting period, there has not been any No estrogenic or androgenic hormones are used in Pınar Meat, giving a high priority to animal welfare, provided incompliance case in relation with the issue in Çamlı Feed and production. No antibiotics are used for growth purposes. any kind of resources for the establishment and effective Pınar Meat. Antibiotics are used upon the diagnosis and recipe of application of animal welfare system. For animal welfare Çamlı Feed the contracted veterinary and the slaughtering dates are practices, on-site and practical trainings were obtained determined taking into consideration the period for removal in America and Europe from experts. In line with those Animal welfare is the first priority in Organic Milk Enterprise. from the body. Those periods of removal are also reported to trainings, our animal welfare system, which includes the The animals bred in the enterprise are Holstein milk cows. the official veterinaries. necessary infrastructure and internal audit, was established, All of the animals are accommodated in barns, 4 sides of and all of our employees were trained. The effectiveness of which are open and the top of which is closed, where there Our shipments are performed in compliance with the the system is being verified every year with the high scores are individual alcoves and where sawdust is used as alcove Regulation on the Transportation of Livestock and Animal we obtain in independent third party audits (SAI GLOBAL, material, as well as open wandering areas. In the cold and Products in the Country. England). rainy periods, the sides are closed with curtains. There are In Sea Products Enterprise, edible bream and bass production cooling fans, scratching brushes in the barns due to the At the same time, our suppliers are regularly being trained of 4.500 tons/year is performed with 35 million bream climate. The animals are not tied. The animals are wandering by us about animal welfare and are informed about the and bass tiddlers. In tiddler production, female and male freely and can easily access to open wandering areas. developments. The use of any kind of hormones and growthfish is stocked with certain ratios to ensure reproduction increasing medicines on the livestock, which constitutes our Veterinaries and other necessary personnel are continuously using natural methods for obtaining eggs. Selective genetic raw materials, is prohibited under the laws of our country. present at the enterprise against any kind of possible programs are not applied. Only the permitted antibiotics can be used for treatment problems. The nails of the animals are regularly maintained, In our enterprise, sedative chemicals are not used during the of ill animals and in this case, the period for the removal flattened and cut. Applications such as tail cutting and manipulation (transportation, grading, and fertilization) of fish of antibiotic from the body is followed up. It is verified that shaving are not performed. Anesthetic materials are not used for bream and bass among the sea fish. In this area, studies those materials do not exist in the animals we supply through unless necessary. for fish welfare are being continued by using a separate the analysis performed regularly both by the Ministry of Food, Growth hormone is not used at the enterprise. Its use is product consisting of a combination of plant oils. Agriculture and Livestock and by the independent accredited prohibited under the regulations. Again under the regulations, 3rd party laboratories which we hire as Pınar Meat. The breeding systems in our enterprise are keeping the the antibiotics and anti-parasite medicines, which are bream and bass fish away from stress. The stock densities, In the transportation of animals, the rules of the Regulation prohibited to be used for milk animals, are not being used; oxygenation, feeding ratios have been determined as the on the Transportation of Livestock and Animal Products in the only the permitted antibiotics are used when necessary. The result of the analysis of the data obtained in the previous Country and the Regulation on the Welfare and Protection milk is released for sale after waiting twice the legal period years. Fully open circuit breeding systems are determined of Animals During Their Transportation are complied with by for the purgation of the medicine used for treatment from the and continuity of water quality and fish welfare was ensure Pınar Meat. milk. Use of hormones to control reproduction is prohibited. through off shore breeding in net cages. Only in cases of anestrus and ovarian cysts, appropriate hormones for treatment are being used. Hormone application is not being performed at any stage of bream and bass breeding at our enterprise. In case of In Poultry Production Enterprise, works are being performed antibiotic applications, which are unavoidable, the antibiotics for broiler turkey of Hybrid Converter race. licensed for the fish by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture A research on the criteria affecting animal welfare for turkeys and Livestock are being used and the periods of medicine was performed in cooperation with Milano University and application, which are calculated depending on the sea water Ege University under the management of Animal Welfare temperatures are seriously followed up and recorded. 42 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 43 Contribution To Local Economy Contribution To Local Economy Contribution To Local Economy Yaşar Group is among the largest groups of Turkey with the Good Examples and Developments From Pınar Water surrounding provinces and districts. The Company, which values it has created since 1945 until today. Our Group, which Companies continued its training meetings on care, fattening, breeding The investment of the 4th natural spring water production has a very wide ecosystem in terms of the business branches, for the producers with the purpose of healthy and high Çamlı Feed facility of the company was launched in Bursa province İnegöl quality milk production, has the target of contributing to the in which it acts, is supporting regional development and district in 2015 and the first phase of this investment, which local economy with its widespread supply chain all over the Almost of all our producers, from whom we purchase development of dairying in the region. includes dispenser size bottled water in reusable package was country, export volume, the added value it creates and the production service in turkey breeding, are families, who do completed within the same year. In the third quarter of 2016, Promotion of Turkey Trademark direct-indirect employment it provides. not have the opportunity of farming or cattle breeding in their it is planned to complete the second phase, which includes villages. With this production method, while income sources Support to the Development Sectors that We The contribution we provide for local economy is not limited plastic bottle package. It is targeted to keep the new facility are being created for the families in the meantime all services Operate In with our products and services, and the trainings we provide investment at 70 million TL level and to provide employment for them such as livestock, feed, veterinary services, and for our producers and suppliers, our efficiency studies based for 100 people when the investment is completed. With the action of national brands to compete with the transfer of livestock to the slaughterhouse are provided for on cost optimization, our R&D projects, our greenhouse gas global brands in the international arena, the requirement to them. Within the process, informing meetings are held once a Pınar Dairy reduction studies and our waste management approach, our create more added value and to have more market share year with the family members and with the veterinary visits, social investments are all taken into consideration as our Since 1973, it has been contributing to the welfare of the has occurred. In order to ensure the sustainability of those informative trainings are provided in relation with poultry contribution for the local economy. society by creating a regular income source for the producers initiatives, which are handled with importance also in terms of breeding and legal legislation. and agencies. Pınar Dairy has more than 20.000 producers, promotion of Turkey, state aids are provided. The Group believes in “growing with its stakeholders” since Dyo Coating and an ecosystem of 500 thousand people including its the day of its foundation and our local producers are in the The most important of those supports is the TURQUALITY® producers and agencies. Pınar, which contributes to the first ranks among our stakeholders. Therefore, the approach Dyo Academy Program, that has been applied since 2004 by the Ministry development of the sector with the trainings it provides, as of providing our raw materials from local producers whenever of Economy. The program which targets not only increasing Certification and seminar activities of Dyo Academy, which created a sector, where agriculture-livestock breeding and possible has been adopted. Furthermore, improvement export, but also branding, is the only state-supported is developed by Dyo Coating for the coating masters and industry integration is ensured more. Pınar Dairy started of the conditions of our suppliers, increasing the product branding program in the world and has been being carried which is accredited by TÜRKAK according to TS EN ISO/IEC its journey in Izmir and continued it in Eskişehir, and is quality, thus the income they have, are among our targets. out with the cooperation of the Ministry of Economy, Turkish 17024 standard, are continuing regionally. Dyo Academy still contributing to the development of dairying in the The producer trainings we provide and the controls that we Exporters Assembly and the Exporter Unions. Directorate was established to support the activities which Southeastern Anatolia Region with its Şanlıurfa Factory, the regularly perform are the most important tools of this. aims to increase the qualified labor force of our country. In foundations of which was laid in 2013. Dyo and Pınar are among the brands steering the market in Yaşar Group takes the local factors into consideration compliance with the Regulations of Occupational Competence the country, while providing their product and service quality With Pınar Dairy Şanlıurfa Factory, which was completed in in its human resource policy and gives priority to “local Institution (MYK) Dyo Coating performs test and certification. to the consumers in the global markets with their investments 2014 and established on an area of 100.000 m2, the milk employment”. It is tried to provide the labor force needed 323 people had taken the tests 299 of them have been abroad. Pınar, which started to take stronger steps in its processing capacity of the company has increased 180 million for investments made in different regions from the awarded by the certificate in the 2015. activities abroad has been supported with TURQUALITY® liters annually. This investment will have an important share existing human resources in that region depending on the Program since 2007 and Dyo has been supported with the Pınar Meat in the development of Southeastern Anatolia Region with the qualifications required by the relevant position. same since 2008, and they are increasing their market shares employment and export opportunities it creates. 250 people Pınar Meat Occupational Training Unit continuously, while competing with the world brands. Yaşar Group companies, which provide high quality and safe will be employed in the case that targeted production and products for its consumers, is trying to make those products export level are realized in line with the projection. In 2015, Pınar and Dyo have completed the first 5-year period Pınar Meat, which established Pınar Meat Professional accessible. Especially due to the direct effects of food and a new dairy plant investment has been taken in to operation successfully and included again in the Program for the second Training Unit in 1998 as a first in Turkey, with the purpose of nutrition on health, a big importance is given to the balanced in Şanlıurfa, which is the largest food investment ever made 5-year by the Ministry of Economy. overcoming the problem of trained personnel in the sector, and sufficient nutrition of the society and care is shown to in the Southeastern Anatolia region. We produce milk, ayran has provided professional skills in meat and meat products supply the products that will provide such nutrition to the and fruit juice in this plant. We are proud of increasing loyalty to our brands and operations to 365 apprentice students until today. 46% of consumers. contributing to the creation of a positive Turkish commodity the graduates are employed in Pınar Meat. As of the year end This plant is designed to accommodate the increase in image also abroad. Natural resources is an important economic value as well as 55 students are continuing their training at the professional the diversity of products according to needs, by using being the inheritance of a country for the future. With this training unit. energy efficient and nature-friendly technologies with full awareness, Yaşar Group gives priority to responsible resource automation. The Company increased its raw milk processing use and resource efficiency in its industrial activities. capacity by 18% upon completion of this investment. Pınar Dairy purchases raw milk from Şanlıurfa as well as other 44 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 45 Community Investment Community Investment Community Investment Yaşar Group is in the effort of producing sustainable values addition this Foundation has also met the science, language, The Foundation has published about 40 works so far Adana Metropolitan Municipality 75th Year Art Gallery, Samsun since its foundation. Besides the contribution that we provide food technology, and computer laboratory needs of schools. consisting of cultural publications, Atatürk publications and Atatürk Culture Center State Fine Arts Gallery, Şanlıurfa for the development of country economy, for the health other publications in various areas, especially archeology Metropolitan Municipality Exhibition Hall and Ankara Modern and life quality of our consumers, the main element of our 2 and science. The Foundation also organizes congresses, Arts Center. efforts is our corporate tradition and corporate citizenship symposiums and panels, where current problems in Turkey 2 Selçuk Yaşar Art Gallery and Painting Museum responsibility. and in the world are assessed, researched with a scientific 19 Education approach and where solutions are discussed. Put into service in 1990, the Selçuk Yaşar Art Gallery operates Our Group targets the development of the society as whole % Art within the Selçuk Yaşar Museum, which was opened in 1985 in the projects, especially the disabled groups, with the social The month of April, which is declared as the World Autism Cultural and and which is the first private painting museum in Turkey. investments it makes in the areas of education, sports, art Historical Heritage Awareness month has also been an active month for Yaşar and culture. The effectiveness of the communication network Education and Culture Foundation since our Foundation held In 2015, the Foundation continued its activities with 77 Others that we have with our stakeholders give us the opportunity “Autism and Communication” panel with high participation exhibition consisting pieces of art by Fatih Mika, Mixed to directly learn and analyze the needs of the society. Thus, at Yaşar University Conference hall for the means to draw Painting Exhibition (Fevzi Karakoç, Yalçın Gökçebağ, Kayıhan our social investment efforts are shaped as the result of those attention to Autism and also to contribute to awareness. Keskinok, Fahri Sümer, Zahit Büyükişliyen), Alp Tamer Ulukılıç, analysis and ensure conversion in terms of their results. Güngör İblikçi, Zeki Serbest, Güven Zeyrek and Ayhan Türker In 2015 with the notion of presenting our culture and history Targeting to provide sustainable contributions to the society Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation 2015 on a global scale Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation in the museum gallery. have resulted in long lasting investments and projects. The Supports has continued to extend financial support to the Nysa The summer exhibitions were held with the pieces of art of social responsibility activities being carried out by our brands In 2014-2015 education and training year, Yaşar Education excavations. Furthermore, our Foundation became the Çetin Erokay, Gencay Kasapcı, Abdullah Kasapcı, Fabri Sümer for long years are the indicators of this condition. and Culture Foundation provided non-refundable scholarship official sponsor of Ancient Smyrna city, which is in Bayraklı and Foundation collection exhibitions in Çeşme Altın Yunus for 57 students, who lost their kinsmen in the mine accident and is also known as Bayraklı Tumulus. The excavation and Art Gallery. Besides the social investments made by our Group, Yaşar in Soma. Also to 157 master, graduate, higher education, restoration activities are being performed by Prof. Dr. Cumhur Education and Culture Foundation, Selçuk Yaşar Sports and Selçuk Yaşar Museum and successful students who are being educated in Anatolian Tanrıver whom is affiliated in Ege University. Education Foundation, Pınar Institute and Yaşar University are developing projects with the aim of increasing the social Vocational High Schools this non-refundable scholarship was Besides these activities small donations and public reliefs Selçuk Yaşar Museum of Yaşar Education and Culture development and welfare. offered. Furthermore, Yaşar Group companies and managers were made to schools such as book donations, or on a Foundation is aimed to be constructed in Izmir Konak. The provided conditional donation scholarships for 25 students. larger scale contributing to the improvements of the schools benchmarking, restoration, restitution design activities were Being independent from these projects, demands voiced To this date, our Foundation contributed to the education of completed and preliminary approval application was made playground. by different groups and individuals are also assessed 5.992 students by providing scholarship. to Konak Municipality in 2015. The construction is foreseen by our Group and are supported to the extent of their 47 Years with Dyo Painting Competition to start in 2016 after obtaining the approval of Municipality appropriateness. One of the purposes of Yaşar Education and Culture and Natural Assets Protection Board. This Museum will gather Foundation is to ensure the cooperation of the Ministry Dyo Painting Competition, which started in 1967 by Yaşar such statutes, carpets and archeological pieces of art. Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation of National Education to make education investments. Holding as the only private painting competition in Turkey Yaşar Education and Culture foundation Special Education and which has been organized by the Yaşar Education and Pınar Institute Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation, which was founded Application Center and Activity Practice Center that was Culture Foundation since 1993, which was biennially held for in 1974 by Durmuş Yaşar, is primarily acting in the education, Pınar Institute is a non-profit organization without any constructed in Izmir Güzelbahçe with the purpose of the 36th time and 1,574 works by the 992 artists entering the culture and art areas. Since its establishment, the Foundation commercial activities, which was founded to inform the preparing the children and the young with autism to social competition were presented. has undertaken the construction of many schools as well as society about food, health and nutrition and to contribute to life, was officially opened on March 25th 2015 with 19 the construction of additional buildings, dining halls, sports Dyo Painting competition, with the purpose of carrying the art the healthy development of society. classrooms providing education to 67 students. and culture facilities in line with the needs of the schools. In of Turkish painting to various parts of Anatolia by introducing The protocol between Istanbul Governorship, Esenyurt it to large masses. In 2015, 73 awarded worthy pieces of In 2015, “Games and Training Tools for Healthy and Balanced Mayoralty and our Foundation regarding the construction of art were exhibited respectively: Eskişehir Atatürk Culture art Nutrition” project was conducted by the Institute. This Ministry of Health-Yaşar Education and Culture Foundation and Congress Center, Izmir Ahmed Adnan Saygun Art Center, project was designed to inform the children to learn the Esenyurt Community Health Clinic and Education Facility, was food groups and the amount of consumption in each food signed and construction process has been started. group in order to maintain a healthy and balanced diet with the help of specific toys created just to suit this purpose. 46 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 47 Community Investment Community Investment Among 15 designs that were developed, the first 4 toys, Good Examples and Developments From Pınar Children Theater “Yaşam Pınarım” Magazine were assessed by result of expert jury votes and the design Companies Having reached more than three million children across Containing useful information especially for parents and students were presented their awards in ceremony. The project was performed jointly with Yaşar University, Art Dyo Coating Turkey free of charge in 28 years, the Pınar Children’s Theatre having been published since 2004, the “Yaşam Pınarım” aims to inculcate a love of theatre in children and continues magazine is an important instrument of the link established and Design Faculty, Industrial Design Department and was Newly developed social investment projects have emphasized in every play to contribute to the cultural, psychological and with Pınar’s consumers and business partners and with completed in 2015 with a budget of TL 12.600. The chosen the importance of paint use for the effective living spaces, mental development of children. academic and bureaucratic circles. The magazine is published 4 toys have been the starting point of a new Scientific pointing out four main factors as color, layout, heat and quarterly and distributed freely. Starting to be sent to Research Project (SRP) named as “Design of Games and lighting. These four main factors are covered by trainings Staging its new play “The Love Coming with Milk” in 2014consumers as an e-bulletin in 2013, the magazine reaches Training Tools for Healthy and Balanced Nutrition”. A new conducted in 2015-2016 education and training year with the 2015 education and training year, Pınar Children Theater gave more than 10,000 people every month. toy, which was inspired by the toys chosen in SRP project, attendance of employees as well as primary school students, a visual theater festival for thousands of young theater-lovers. will enter in professional design process and will be used as the parents and the coating masters. The projects are This play, was professionally prepared in terms of stage, YBP a training material in the project “Let’s Enjoy Moving and performed in 10 provinces of Turkey (Kocaeli, Izmir, Istanbul, music, decor and costumes and toured around Çanakkale, Eating Healthily”. The preparations and content studies are Electricity, food and beverage problems occurred in RizeAnkara, Antalya Adana, Bursa, Gaziantep, Samsun, Trabzon), Eskişehir and Izmir. Acting also as a school that has been further supporting to popularize this project with the help of Artvin shore region as the result of the flood disaster in 2015. with Ministry of National Education and Mimar Sinan Fine Arts effective in gifting many famous actors and actresses to the protocols signed with the Ministry of National Education. In order to prevent any loss of the tradesmen, the relevant University. Turkish theater, Pınar Children Theater started staging the markets were contacted and their products were kept in the play “Game Train” as of the beginning of 2015. Pınar Institute supported the doctorate studies performed on Targeting to reach 24.800 primary school students and 220 fridges of YBP for an extended period. Water was sent to sarcopenia by Ege University Faculty of Medicine, Department coating masters with the education trainings, it is aimed to A budget of TL 347.488 was reserved for Pınar Children the relevant region by Pınar Water to help people meet their of Internal Diseases. Thanks to this cooperation, the access all primary schools in Turkey with the “School Painting Theater in 2015. water need. Institute has become a part of the studies on the detection Guide” study to be performed in cooperation with the Ministry of sarcopenia frequency among individuals aged 65 and over Pınar Children Painting Competition of National Education. and assessment of nutrition on the disease, creation of data Pınar Painting competition has being held for 34 years now on sarcopenia frequency in Turkey and creating awareness Social responsibility projects are joined under three subwith the purpose of increasing the interest of children in in households and informing the individuals about protein projects called “It’s Worth To Learn”, “It’s Worth For Schools”, painting and fine arts and to support the painters of the deficiency and physical activity. A total support of TL 10.000 “It’s Worth For Masterships” with the corporate approach of future. This notion was held with the theme “My Family and was provided for the researches named as “Sarcopenia Dyo with the slogan “It’s Worth For Tomorrows”. I” in 2015. frequency and risk factors in elderly living in the society” and “The relation between sarcopenia and depressive indications Dyo Coating Social Investment Expenses The competition received a large number of entries, a total of and functional condition among the elderly”, which were 49,255 works from every region of Turkey, and beyond Turkey launched in 2014 and the results of which were obtained in such as; Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Germany, 2015. 2015 Qatar and United Arab Emirates. 25 little painters selected Sports 596.309 by the jury including lecturers and specialists were awarded The support provided for the producers with another Art 462.914 with tablet computers and the right to participate in a 1-week project of the Institute, namely “The Future of Our Milk is in Education 139.286 Art Camp in Istanbul under the coordination of the famous Conscious Hands”, is included in the “Sustainable Agriculture Sector 95.561 painter Zahit Büyükişliyen. and Livestock Breeding” section of our report. Other 335.891 Pınar used a budget of TL 326.272 was used for Pınar Total (TL) 1.629.961 Children Painting Competition. 48 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 49 Community Investment Community Investment Stakeholder Opinion Stakeholder Opinion all recruitment and training processes of Pınar dairy that we can contribute to the future of such a company Şanlıurfa Factory during December 2013. Being vested makes me and my friends proud. I’m sure that this with such responsibility gave me the opportunity to process from the past to the future will provide great meet new cultures, see the entire work, perceive the successes for long years to come with the determination differences and join them in corporate culture and was and labor of each employee participating in our family. very useful in my personal development. What do you think about Dyo’s corporate It is very important in terms of communication with responsibility activities? the employees that new practices are started for the With our social responsibility practices, which we employees in Pınar Dairy and many of them are planned realized with the slogan “It’s Worth For Tomorrows” and by the Human Resources department. Activities such as in which I was actively involved, we created models Zumba, Classical Turkish Music Chorus and Dragon Cup targeting to obtain “a better life” for our stakeholders. bring together our coworkers working in different areas Our “It’s Worth To Learn” project in the education and contribute to the creation of a team spirit. area draws attention. The target population of our Furthermore, among our social responsibility activities project consists of the students and teachers and we that are traditionally supported, Pınar Children Theater, informed children to help them obtain a better living Pınar Painting Competition, Pınar KSK Basketball Team environment thanks to the cooperation we ensured with and Apprenticeship School are providing contribution to our stakeholders. With our “It’s Worth for Masterships” development in the areas of sports, arts, cultural and project, which targets the professionals, we provide Cenan Çiftci, social areas. information contributing to the professional and personal Yasemin Espit, Pınar Dairy Human Resources Specialist development of our coating masters, who are our What do you think about Pınar Painting Dyo Coating Social Media Specialist most important stakeholders. The most important gain How long have you been working for Pınar Dairy? Competition? How long have you been working for Dyo? obtained from our social responsibility projects is the Pınar Painting Competition is a competition, which was opportunity given to the employees to participate in the I’ve been working for Pınar Dairy since October of 2013. I’ve been working for Dyo since 2009. projects. I’m happy to be involved in such a project. being held in my childhood and which I participated What are your opinions on being an employee of then. It is an important competition since it did not What is your opinion on being a Dyo employee? What are your opinions on Dyo Painting Pınar Dairy? What do you think of corporate lose its purpose and is one of the most long-term Competition? responsibility studies of Pınar Dairy? competitions in Turkey, it makes children like milk and Working in a big and reputable organization as Dyo is improves the creativity of children with a certain theme everyone’s biggest dream. I had the chance to reach this Dyo has been supporting education, culture, art and I’m proud of working in Yaşar Group, which is an every year. Since it was opened to other countries, it will dream in 2009. I feel lucky because Dyo not only gave sports activities for long years as do all Yaşar Group established organization of Turkey. I completed my gain international recognition. me the opportunity to work for a leader organization, Companies. The most important example of this is Dyo university apprenticeship in Pınar Dairy. It is pleasing but also provided a peaceful and happy family Painting Competition, which has been held since 1967 to work at a place,in which the corporate culture can environment. in order to support the art Turkish painting and the be internalized even when I was just a university talented artists. Being a part of an organization, which student. Besides my existing assignment, I worked in We are not only fed by the past and current culture of gives value to art and the artist, honors all employees. Dyo, but also our belief and trust in the future. Knowing 50 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 51 Community Investment Community Investment Sponsorships Exhibition and Project Market Sponsorship Yaşar University organizations. Many university-industry cooperation projects are applied jointly with Yaşar Group companies. Main Sponsorships 24th Quality Congress sponsorship Targeting to educate individuals sensitive to the environment and his/her own life and capable of acting with social Some of the Projects Performed by Yaşar University are as Pınar KSK Sponsorship of 16th Symposium on Search for Perfection follows. responsibility awareness, Yaşar University started its activities Continuing its contribution in sports by supporting Pınar Sponsorship of Tiyatro Martı’s “Welcome Dyer” play in 2002-2003 academic year. In Yaşar University, which has TÜRKSAT 6a Domestic Communication Satellite Karşıyaka Spor (KSK) basketball team since 1998, Pınar 6.945 students are being educated with the help of 441 Berkay Besler sponsorship support Development and Production Project supports approximately 1.000 children within the basketball academic and 266 administrative personnel. team every year so that these children can make use of Karşıyaka Sports Club The project was accepted for support within the scope of The university currently consist of, 7 faculties, 25 Selçuk Yaşar Pınar KSK sport facilities located in Çiğli. Pınar the legislation of 1007 Program of Turkish Scientific and departments, 11 graduate programs, 2 Profession Higher KSK, is the champion of Turkey Major Basketball League in Altay Sports Club Technological Research Institution (TÜBİTAK), which was Education Schools and 1 Foreign Languages High Education 2014-2015 season. Pınar KSK succeeded to be one of the stipulated on December 15th 2014 by and between the • In April of 2015 Pınar Professional supported AŞOMDER School, further more there are 13 masters and 5 doctorate best 24 teams in the Europe League. Ministry of Transportation, Maritime and Communication, (Culinary High School Graduates Association) meeting programs in Social Sciences Institute as well as 10 masters Türksat Uydu Haberleşme Kablo TV ve İşletme A.Ş., TÜBİTAK Turkish Basketball Federation in Bolu Mengen. During this organization popular chefs and 3 doctorate programs in the Institute of Science and Space Technologies Research Institute, ASELSAN Elektronik of today shared valuable information to student chef Technology. In the context of uninterrupted support it gives for sports, Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş., C Tech Bilişim Teknolojileri Sanayi ve candidates from universities coming from all parts of Pınar acts as the Official Beverage Supplier of Turkish The basic philosophy of Yaşar University, which is one of the Ticaret A.Ş., TUSAŞ Türk Havacılık ve Uzay Sanayi Anonim Turkey. Basketball Federation and Basketball National Teams. 5 foundation universities in İzmir, is to support the academic, Şirketi and TÜBİTAK, C Tech Bilişim Teknolojileri firm, which • Pınar Professional was involved as a sponsor in the cultural and social development of individuals with a point of is one of the signatories is executing a service purchase Other Sponsorships organization, the 1 of which was held by Foodinlife, which st view based on universal values and questioning. project with Yaşar University on the design, production and is a sector press organ, in November 2015. testing of some parts to be used on the satellite (antenna and • Pınar undertook the name sponsorship of “Pınar 104 students went abroad under Erasmus Program and 114 microwave elements). International Teenage Men Basketball Tournament”. The • It was the product sponsor for the stand of Usla (Food Erasmus students came to Yaşar University for education 18th annual tournament was held in Konya between January Academy), which participated in Sirha (Food, Equipment during 2015-2016 academic year. In the project scope, it is targeted to design, produce and 31st and February 7th 2015 in cooperation with Turkish and Services Fair for Hotels, Restaurants and Catering measure the prototype of a transmitter hybrid adapter and an Basketball Federation. Yaşar University provides an international education Sectors) in November 2015. undirected transmitter antenna to be used in the telemetry experiences with a student profile which is diversified in the and telecommand systems of TÜRKSAT 6a satellite, which will • Pınar which not only participates in, but also supports many campus and students from 48 different countries including be the first 100% domestic satellite of Turkey and which is fairs and congresses held in many areas such as quality, Europe, USA, Canada, Australia, Nigeria, Kenya, Oman, Iraq, planned to be sent to the space in 2019. food, R&D and marketing for the development of the Azerbaijan, Pakistan have full and halftime education. sector, was the sponsor of 8 congresses, 5 symposiums and What Makes You Strong? Relation of 44 activities in 2015. Yaşar University supports the successes of and provides Psychological Strength of the Young Immigrants contribution to the education of students through different with Cultural Context and Acculturation • The sponsorships of Dyo Coating are as follows in 2015: scholarship opportunities such as Education-Training, Academic Success, Talent, Martyr and Disabled Veteran, The purpose of the project is to research the relation Paint sponsorship for Academy of Dreams Accommodation, and International Student Scholarship. between strength and cultural context and tendencies of the KİTVAK Paint sponsorship In this context, 45% of the students make use of the young, who exhibit a positive psychological development scholarships provided in different ratios. in spite of the difficult living conditions in the migration Eskişehir Atatürk Culture Art and Congress Center environment. The project is supported in the scope of “2232 Exhibition Hall Paint sponsorship Yaşar University targets to provide education with 8 additional Return to Home Country Research Scholarship Program” faculties in 2016-2017 academic year once the Faculty of Private Piri Reis Schools “From Masters to Tiny Hands” that is executed by TÜBİTAK Scientist Support Department. Business Administration and the Faculty of Human and Social Art and Culture Week sponsorship The participants of this two-stage project, which will adapt Sciences starts their activities. a culture-sensitive psychological strength model to the 4th International Polymeric Composites Symposium acculturation environment for the first time, consist of the Yaşar University is leading projects in areas of software, Sponsorship young people from families, which migrated from rural areas design, improvement of business processes, communication, measurement of perception and education in a wide spectrum of Turkey to Europe (Belgium) and from other cities or the from social projects to university-industry cooperation rural areas to Izmir. projects. A big part of those projects are supported by It is planned to publish the findings of the project both as a TÜBİTAK, and the others are financed with the sources scientific article and as a verbal announcement at the national of Yaşar University or industry and other institutions and and international conferences. 52 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 53 “Success is only possible with good teams, and good management for these teams as well as moral and motivation.” Selçuk YAŞAR Caring for Employees Profile of Employees Profile of Employees Profile of Employees The main works in the Holding and the affiliated companies are performed by white collar and blue-collar employees. The Regional Percentages of the Total Labor Force auxiliary works or the works requiring technical expertise are performed by white collar and blue-collar personnel in subemployer staff. Stock control, shipment and sale support duties can be given as examples for the auxiliary works connected 2013 2014 2015 with the main work, while examples for the works requiring technical expertise include the works in food, service, security and Region Female Male Female Male Female Male cleaning areas. Aegean 12,3 53,1 12,1 53,1 11,4 51,8 With the start of the summer season (April-September Period) in Altın Yunus, an increase occurs in provisional staff. A personnel Marmara 3 17,2 3 16,7 3,5 17 increase in temporary staff occurs also in Pınar Water, in the production function during the summer period (June-October Central Anatolia 1,6 9,5 1,8 9,9 2,1 9,7 period) due to the increase in water consumption. In Pınar Dairy, an increase occurs in the sub-employer staff in production Mediterranean 0,2 2,2 0,3 2,3 0,3 2,2 function due to the increase in the consumption of food and beverages (yogurt, ayran, fruit juice) in the summer period (JuneBlack Sea 0 0,4 0,1 0,4 0,1 0,4 October period). Southeastern Anatolia 0,1 0,3 0,1 0,3 0,1 1,4 Eastern Anatolia 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 17,2 82,8 17,3 82,7 17,5 82,5 Total Labor Force by the Employment Contract Total labor force consists of the sum of staff and the employees of the sub-employer. For an Indefinite Duration For a Definite Duration General Temporary/Contracted Total Male Female Male Female Male Female Number 5.919 1.262 166 29 6.085 1.291 Percentage Of Total Employees Covered By Collective Bargaining Agreements Percentage 80,2 17,1 2,3 0,4 82,5 17,5 Total number of employees consists of the sum of the staff and the employees of the sub-employer employees. Dyo Coating Dyo Printing Inks Pınar Meat Pınar Dairy Viking Tissue Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Total Labor Force Percentage by Type of Employment 2013 1 52 0 54 14 62 8 58 0 0 2014 1 53 0 53 13 60 7 56 0 59 Key White Collar Blue Collar Temporary Total 2015 1 54 0 54 14 60 7 54 0 62 Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 2013 4,6 1,3 33,7 10,3 42,4 4,6 2,6 0,5 83,2 16,8 2014 4,5 1,4 32,7 10,5 42,8 4,3 3,1 0,7 83,1 16,9 2015 4,4 1,3 31,8 10,9 43,5 4,7 2,9 0,5 82,6 17,4 In the table of total payroll employees, the sub-employers are excluded. Newly-Hired Employees by Age Group Total Labor Force by Employees and Supervised Workers Excluding Temporary and Sub-employer Including Temporary and Sub-employer Total Number of Hired Employees Total Number of Hired Employees Employees Supervised Workers General Age Male Percentage Female Percentage Male Percentage Female Percentage Total Total Total Under 30 284 40,5 121 17,2 1.429 52,3 301 11 2015 Male Female Male Female Male Female Between 30-50 238 33,9 49 7 757 27,7 214 7,8 Number 4.696 987 1.389 304 6.085 1.291 Above 50 10 1,4 0 0 26 1 4 0,1 Percentage 63,7 13,4 18,8 4,1 82,5 17,5 Total 532 75,8 170 24,2 2.212 81 519 19 Total labor force consists of the sum of staff and the employees of the sub-employer 56 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 57 Profile of Employees Profile of Employees Newly-Hired Employees by Region Rate of Returning to Work and Retention at Work After Parental Leave* Excluding Temporary and Sub-employer Including Temporary and Sub-employer Total Number of Employees Total Number of Employees Total Number of Hired Employees Total Number of Hired Employees Entitled to Parental Leave Took Parental Leave Region Male Percentage Female Percentage Male Percentage Female Percentage 2015 Female Male 2015 Female Male Aegean 300 42,7 88 12,5 1.336 48,9 327 12 Total 53 220 Total 53 220 Marmara 93 13,2 39 5,6 428 15,7 77 2,8 Central 73 10,4 35 5 350 12,8 88 3,2 Anatolia Mediterranean 3 0,4 4 0,6 35 1,3 22 0,8 Total Number of Employees Total Number Of Employees Southeastern Returned To Work After Parental Returned To Work After Parental 56 8 4 0,6 56 2,1 5 0,2 Anatolia Leave Ended Leave Ended and Still Employed 12 Black Sea 7 1 0 0 7 0,3 0 0 2015 Female Male Months After Their Return To Work Total 532 76 170 24 2.212 81 519 19 Total 49 220 2015 Female Male Total 42 219 2015 Rate of Returning Rate of Retention Personnel Turnover Rate by Age Group to Work at Work Female 92,5 79,2 2013 2014 2015 *The 5-day paternal leave is given to our male employees in case Male 100 99,5 their wife gives birth. Female Male Female Male Female Male Under 30 12,3 6,5 15,6 11,9 10 9,9 30-50 7,3 7,2 9,5 9,2 10,1 7,7 Above 50 7,4 20,6 22,2 21,2 9,5 25,3 Total 8,5 7,7 11,5 10,1 10 8,8 Gender Distribution of Employees in Governance Bodies (Percentage) 2015 Executive* Director Female 20 23 Male 80 77 Personnel Turnover Rate by Region *The executive group consists of members of Board of Directors, CEO, Chairpersons, Vice Chairpersons, Coordinators and General Directors. 2013 2014 2015 Female Male Female Male Female Male Aegean 0 3,5 0 4,1 6,3 4,2 Age Distribution of Employees in Governance Bodies (Percentage) Marmara 7,7 7,5 11,1 9,7 9,8 7,8 Central Anatolia 33,3 4 0 12 8,3 16,4 2015 Executive* Director Black Sea 6,2 5,3 15,6 8,7 9,2 6 Under 30 0 2 Mediterranean 0 3,7 0 16,7 0 15,2 30-50 32 71 Southeastern Anatolia 12,6 10,2 12,3 12,7 11,9 12,8 Above 50 68 27 Total 8,5 7,7 11,5 10,1 10 8,8 *The executive group consists of members of Board of Directors, CEO, Chairpersons, Vice Chairpersons, Coordinators and General Directors. 58 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 59 Profile of Employees Profile of Employees Rate of Disabled Employees in Governance Bodies There is no disabled employees in governance bodies. Gender Distribution by Employee Category (Percentage) Key 2013 2014 2015 Blue Collar 2013 2014 2015 Company Male Female Male Female Male Female Company Male Female Male Female Male Female Dyo Printing Dyo Printing 74 26 63 38 62 38 99 1 100 0 100 0 Inks Inks Dyo Coating 76 24 76 24 76 24 Dyo Coating 98 2 98 2 99 1 Pınar Meat 72 28 71 29 75 25 Pınar Meat 82 18 82 18 81 19 Pınar Dairy 66 34 65 35 70 30 Pınar Dairy 88 12 89 11 89 11 YBP 90 10 92 8 92 8 YBP 100 0 100 0 100 0 Çamlı Feed 85 15 84 16 88 12 Çamlı Feed 100 0 97 3 98 2 Pınar Water 85 15 77 23 76 24 Pınar Water 87 13 90 10 87 13 Viking Tissue 94 6 100 0 100 0 Viking Tissue 100 0 100 0 100 0 Yaşar Holding 53 47 50 50 44 56 Yaşar Holding 68 32 67 33 67 33 Altın Yunus 100 0 71 29 86 14 Altın Yunus 89 11 87 13 83 17 Desa 75 25 80 20 67 33 Desa 100 0 100 0 100 0 Total 77 23 76 24 77 23 Total 90 10 91 9 90 10 White Collar 2013 2014 2015 Temporary 2013 2014 2015 Company Male Female Male Female Male Female Company Male Female Male Female Male Female Dyo Printing Dyo Printing 56 44 53 47 50 50 88 13 91 9 100 0 Inks Inks Dyo Coating 74 26 73 27 71 29 Dyo Coating 88 12 88 13 87 13 Pınar Meat 71 29 69 31 70 30 Pınar Meat 0 100 0 100 Pınar Dairy 68 32 67 33 66 34 Pınar Dairy 67 33 100 0 0 100 YBP 86 14 86 14 85 15 YBP 67 33 67 33 100 0 Çamlı Feed 71 29 71 29 73 27 Çamlı Feed 50 50 80 20 Pınar Water 75 25 75 25 76 24 Pınar Water 89 11 90 10 84 16 Viking Tissue 80 20 83 17 75 25 Viking Tissue Yaşar Holding 35 65 43 57 44 56 Yaşar Holding 0 100 Altın Yunus 78 22 79 21 76 24 Altın Yunus 80 20 Desa 88 13 88 12 87 13 Desa 100 0 Total 76 24 76 24 74 26 Total 83 17 82 18 85 15 60 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 61 Profile of Employees Employee Rights Age Distribution Percentage by Employee Category in the Group General Employee Rights 2015 Key White Collar Blue Collar Temporary Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination labor force pool in recruitments, and the increase in the Under 30 0 23 28 55 number of female apprentices will be continued in the 30-50 83 75 71 42 In Yaşar Group, equal opportunities are provided for the following period. Above 50 17 2 1 4 employees in all human resources processes such as recruitment, waging, performance assessment, promotion, Our pregnant and nursing employees work within the time assignment, training and improvement and no discrimination lines indicated in the law. When our female employees return is made about nationality, religion, gender, age and marital from their maternal leave, they are employed at the same Rate of Disabled Employee by Permanent Employee status. No complaints were received in 2015 from our position and no negative change occurs in their carrier plans employees related to discrimination. due to such maternal leave. There are nursing rooms in our Number of Disabled Employee Number of Permanent Employee Percentage companies for our employees, who gave birth. The health, safety, education and personal improvement of 144 5.683 3 Furthermore, the next period plans include a contracted all individuals, whether female or male, who are employed in the Group Companies, are encouraged. As indicated in kindergarten, which the employees can use with advantaged the recruitment process included in our website, there are terms, carrier guidance programs for the daughters of our competences and qualifications defined for each position in employees and carrier support programs for our female Yaşar Group. In the recruitment process, the assessment is employees. performed taking into consideration the compliance of the Appropriate Working Conditions candidate with the qualifications and competences required by the position. There is no difference in wage in recruitment Labor and Labor Force and promotion terms between the male and female employees. Yaşar Holding manages its human resources policy with the target of employing innovative and quality labor force with Empowering of Women Employees high motivation and performance and increasing the loyalty of that labor force. The human resources strategy, based on Yaşar Holding supports empowerment of women in all the axis of placing “correct people to the correct work”, has sectors of activity of its companies. In 2012, “CEO Support placed Yaşar Group companies in the higher ranks in the list Declaration for UN Women’s Empowerment Principles” was of “companies preferred for employment” with its fair human signed. “Equality at Work Platform”, which is brought to resources policy and practices. the agenda by the World Economic Forum, and which is continued under the leadership of the Ministry of Family In Yaşar Group companies, if people are assigned other and Social Policies, and the “Work Group for Women’s duties, the transactions are performed within the periods Empowerment” by Global Compact Turkey Board of Directors indicated in the Labor law and Staff Regulation numbered are among the formations, in which our Group is included. 4857. For the employees, who are employed under Collective Bargaining Agreement, the periods indicated in the Activities for empowerment of female employees: Agreement apply. • 20% of the promotions to the managerial offices in the Child Labor reporting period consist of female employees. Activities to increase the number of female managers in the The child labor is regulated under the Labor Law numbered following period have been planned and the ratio of female 4857 in our country. Under the relevant provisions, the participants to the mentoring program launched in 2016 children under the age of 15 can not be employed, however, in this scope has been 47% in the 1st period. The same as an exception, the children, who completed the age of 14 project will be conducted widespread for the blue-collar and graduated from primary education may be employed in women employees working in production. light works with limited working hours so as not to prevent their education. Although there is no legal obligation, Yaşar • The ratio of women is greater than the ratio of men in the Group companies adopted the principle of not employing apprenticeship programs, which is assessed as a strong personnel under the age of 18. 62 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 63 Employee Rights Forced Labor and Involuntary Servitude Recruitment rights, duties and responsibilities of the recruited personnel, participate in the “Company Orientation Program” that is Employee Rights and the current personnel policies and principles. specifically designed for each company. In 2013, “Orientation Work days and hours as well as public and general holidays Yaşar Group creates its human resources in respect to Procedure” has been issued with the purpose of applying the and weekly rest days are defined and notified to employees in knowledge, skill and experience criteria required by the New employees are provided with e-learning based “Yaşar orientation process in the same way in all companies of our all companies of Yaşar Group. position in the light of the “science, unity, success” principle. Group Orientation Training” on the very same day and Group. Yaşar Group adopts a human-focused management If the nature of the work requires or due to increase understanding, which brings together individuals who care in production overtime maybe required, such work is for information sharing and unity spirit, who are open for all arranged in accordance with the provisions of the Law and Rights Offered to The Employees developments based on science, who adopt a participative compensation is paid as stipulated in the Law. and success-oriented work understanding, and who are Social Rights Offered to the Employees Job descriptions are drawn up for the employees of the Group educated and experienced. companies and they are informed of their job descriptions During the assessments performed within the recruitment Key White Collar Blue Collar (*) Temporary upon their recruitment; documents related to job descriptions processes, it should be taken into consideration how open Life Insurance not applicable are shared in updated condition within the company through the candidate is for development as well as the requirements a common system which is used in accordance with ISO of the position. Yaşar Group Basic Competencies and the üCertain levels 9001. Newly recruited employees attend an orientation (company pays)* The employee Business Family Competencies that are separately defined program. Health Care ü(company pays) pays the premium for each level ensure the assessment of the candidate on The employee competence basis. himself/herself* No incident involving forced labour or compulsory work has pays the premium ever been reported in companies that are members of the himself/herself* The Group companies follow an approach complying with Yaşar Group. Disability and the universal principles in human resources management, not applicable Invalidity Coverage Union and Collective Bargaining Agreement as is the case for all activities. The candidates, who want to be recruited by Yaşar Group companies, can make their Parental Leave ü ü ü ü In Yaşar Group Companies, collective bargaining agreements applications through the Internet site of Yaşar Holding, Retirement are made with all employees for an indefinite period of not applicable through recruitment sites directly or through the consultancy Provision time under the Labor Law numbered 4857. The workers of companies. Apprenticeship announcements and job Stock Ownership not applicable the contractor and subcontractor firms, which enter into a announcements are published on Yaşar Group companies New Year Gift business partnership with the Group Companies, have to be internet sites and the candidates are free to record their Package ü ü ü ü insured. resumes in the application pool whenever they desire. Fuel Contribution üCertain levels ü ü The rights of our employees to become members of a union Pocket Money for In 2015, Yaşar Group companies received applications from Religious Day üCertain levels ü ü üCertain levels without any concern are respected. Always constructive 61.322 female and 86.341 male candidates. dialogs are established with our employees, who are Food Contribution ü ü ü ü members of the legal trade unions. In this context, the The assessments performed by the human resources unit Travel Allowance ü ü ü rights of the employees are taken under warranty with the continue with the reference check and jobs are offered to the candidates found appropriate after those processes. Marriage Help üCertain levels ü ü üCertain levels workplace and operation labor contracts entered into by and between the employer and Petrol-İş for the Coating Group The candidates, whose applications are not accepted, are Maternity Help üCertain levels ü ü üCertain levels companies, Tekgıda-İş Union for Pınar Dairy and Pınar Meat, informed through the career portal, e-mail or telephone. Death Benefit üCertain levels ü ü üCertain levels Others which are the Food Group companies, and Selüloz-İş for Since all the applying candidates are responded rapidly, Car ü üCertain levels Viking Tissue. Dyo Coating is the only company in the coating Yaşar Group has been awarded in 2015 for the 5th time Gas ü üCertain levels sector, which has a collective bargaining agreement. with “Respect to People Reward” of “kariyer.net”, which is Telephone Device Percentage of Union-Member Employees accepted as one of the indicators of the value given to human and Line ü üCertain levels resources. Seniority Promotion Pınar Meat 74 Premium ü ü ü The companies of Yaşar Group apply their recruitment Pınar Dairy 61 Clothing üCertain levels üCertain levels üCertain levels procedures in compliance with the Labor Law numbered 4857 Dyo Coating 55 and Yaşar Holding Personnel Regulation. Sale Premium üCertain levels üCertain levels Dyo Printing Inks 54 Performance Viking Tissue 62 When the recruitment process is completed, the employees Premium üCertain levels üCertain levels of the companies of our Group are informed on the Company * It does not include the social rights of blue collars, who are union members. Personnel Regulations, which regulate the working conditions, 64 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 65 Employee Rights Employee Development Employee Development Employee Development Good Examples and Developments From Training and Development Activities Performance Management System Companies Yaşar Holding attaches importance to the professional In the Yaşar Group, the performance management system is regulated by premium regulations for the employees of the Dyo Coating development of its employees as much as their continued sales function and by performance evaluation regulation in case of other employees. The Group has adopted an integrated personal development. Thus, we aim to provide training management system in order to attain its fundamental objectives and strategic goals. Launched in 2005, the Performance Color Creators Proposal System supporting the individual development areas as well Management System aims to achieve corporate objectives and personal objectives simultaneously. The results of performance In Dyo Coating factories, “Color Creators Proposal System” as opportunities allowing them achieve their goals and evaluation are used in personal development career planning, and regional compensation. Based on the balanced scorecard continued in 2015 in order to award employees who provide to enhance Yaşar Group Basic and Business Family technique, the evaluation system uses key performance indicators (KPI) that are selected at the beginning of the year and have “color creating” ideas about the works performed by both Competencies. Orientation training, on-the-job training, targets agreed upon. Achievement of goals is monitored through counseling and follow-up interviews in the middle of the year themselves and others in line with the vision and targets personal development training, management skills training, and necessary adjustments, if any, are done. At the end of the year, the realizations are assessed in comparison with targets. of the company. The ideas and applications, which are specialization training, and workshops and conferences are Employees who are subjected to the Premium Regulation are excluded. deemed to create colors by making the existing sources among the training and development opportunities offered to In 2015, 658 people were included in the Performance Management System implemented by Pınar Meat, Pınar Dairy, Pınar more useful and by facilitating life, constitute the basis of employees. Water, YBP, Viking Tissue, Çamlı Feed, Dyo Coating, Dyo Printing Inks, Yaşar Foreign Trade, Yaşar Holding and the companies this system. All employees, without any difference of level The number of users were increased in 2013 who used outside Turkey. and scope, may make recommendations for this system. The training platform which was formed by using e-learning established committee assesses the recommendations and Yaşar Group employees take advantage of Yaşar Group Basic Competencies and Business Family Competencies for their methodology with the brand name of “Yaşar Academy” in the recommendations found worth of awarding are awarded personal and Professional development. Employees who identify competences that they can develop in collaboration with their 2012. All white-collar employees and blue-collar employees following the approval of the General Directorate. supervisors can select some of those areas by using Personal Development Forms. An employee’s training and development managing teams were included in the system. Comprising a needs are identified based on those forms and training plans are drawn up after the completion of analyses. Year-end Red Chair Practice total of 3,071 people in 2015, the learning program allocates evaluations are reflected in performance cards subject to pre-defined rates. Employee performance cards were integrated with different training programs to each level and function. In The Red Chair Practice allows gathering of employees to tell SAP system in 2012 and Personal Development Forms followed this in 2013, by this way the human resources information addition to ready-to-use content, training programs outlining their opinions and proposals directly to the General Director. systems infrastructure was reinforced. the policies, procedures, and business models of the Yaşar In sessions, which are held in groups of 8-10 people, the Group companies are prepared and shared with employees Only white-collar employees are included in the performance management system launched in 2005. General Director examines the opinions of the employees and via Yaşar Academy learning platform. In 2015, 21 trainings, monitors. Red Chair Practice was continued actively in 2015. the contents of which have been prepared by Yaşar Group, have been provided through Yaşar Academy. Percentage of Employee Included in the Performance/Premium System Ensuring the development of our employees in technical point 2015 2015 of view is also included among the priorities of our human Female 28 Key 72 resources policy and technical, managerial and personal Male 22 Out of Scope* 33 developments are assessed as a whole. In order to improve the technical competencies of our employees in the work *Out of scope of Collective Bargaining Agreements branches, Occupational Health and Safety Training, HygienePersonal Hygiene Trainings, Training on the Safe Use of Chemicals, Fire Extinguishing Training, Pest Control Training, Fire Extinguishing and Evacuation Training, HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points) trainings have been held. A total of 96.017 hours of training has been held in Yaşar Group in general in 2015, and average training hour per employee is 13 hours. The average training hour per female employee is 15, and the average training hour per male employee is 13. The average training hour per key employee is 21, the average training hour per white collar employee is 16, the average training hour per blue collar employee is 10, the average training hour per temporary employees is 22. 66 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 67 Employee Development Occupational Health and Safety Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Carrier Management System Good Examples and Developments From Yaşar Group aims to increase employee satisfaction and Average OHS Training Hours* Companies devises plans in order to ensure development in their living With the career-planning model, which we have launched environment as a whole. Paying attention to its employees’ in 2013 by selecting a pilot company, which we target to Dyo Coating Work Assessment System: Total Training Total Number of Average life quality, the Yaşar Group organizes training programs extend, and which is based on performance, competence and Hours Employee Training Hours Dyo Coating Work Assessment System, which covers bluefocusing on waist diseases, diabetes and obesity, hazards development, the qualifications expected from the positions Female Male Female Male Female Male collar personnel with the purpose of attracting skilled people of smoking and quitting methods, family planning, healthy (education, foreign language, experience) have been defined 5.680 31.985 1.420 8.422 4 3,8 to the company, motivating them and keeping them in the nutrition and obesity in childhood in order to support its and career paths have been formed (determination of *Covers OHS training hours of staff and the employees of sub-employer. company with a just human resources system supporting employees and their families. recruitment, progress assignment/ promotion criteria). In the company strategy and human resources plan, continued OHS Boards line with those criteria, the employees are assessed every Workplace health units monitor health checks performed for to be applied in 2015. Together with the system, besides of year. The objective of this application is to closely follow employees who are subjected to health checks for infectious The companies of our Group act in compliance with the the positions in accordance with criteria such as the work upon our employees. The other objective of it is to ensure diseases and audiometry examinations in addition to taking relevant laws and regulations in the follow up on occupational conditions of positions, responsibility, training, skill, effort, the development of our existing employees and by this way, their throat cultures and stool culture screening and lung health and safety programs. Within this scope, in our risk, it was ensured that the performances and competencies to keep the labor available for the Group’s needs. The basic X-rays as part of eradication of tuberculosis. companies, where 50 or more employees are employed and of the employees are assessed, the targeted performance principle of Yaşar Group is “to raise its own manager”. The where works lasting more than six months are performed, level is awarded and the personal development is continuous. Comprehensive examinations are needed in some areas study defining position qualifications for all companies has there is an Occupational Health and Safety Board. OHS Boards The system was configured with the joint efforts of company because of the nature of work performed. In that context, been completed. of our companies represent 100% of our staff members. managers, union representatives and a consultant, who is an Dyo Coating employees undergo quarterly heavy metal and Leadership Development Programs expert in the area. solvent tests, lung screening, respiratory function tests, and Furthermore, under the Regulation on Occupational Health annual blood tests. and Safety Boards; I Live as a Leader Pınar Dairy Health service including workplace doctor and nurse is a) In case the number of employees of the main employer In 2015, the preparations for the design of contents of “I Live The works have been started for the employees in production provided in Yaşar Group companies 2 and/or 5 days a week. and the sub-employer reaches fifty or more separately, then as a Leader Leadership Development Program” was started. to offer them assistant master training in the first group, 27 the employer and the sub-employer establishes separate The program’s aim is to raise leaders who lead our business of our employees obtained their certificates. In 2015, 313 All requirements aiming to ensure health and safety at work boards. The cooperation and coordination for execution of and human resources in the most efficient way in line with hours of Lean 6 Sigma training was provided. The activities are met in our companies and an Occupational Health and occupational health and safety activities and the decisions the vision and strategies of Yaşar Group. The other output for preventing waste are continuing and 1.018 hours of Safety Internal Regulation is implemented with a view to taken by the boards. expected from this program is the creation of joint leadership training is provided to the employees for the prevention of preventing work accidents and occupational diseases that culture. time, paper, water, energy waste. Personal and professional could occur. Occupational Health and Safety Board has been b) In case the number of employees of the main employer development trainings are being provided in Yaşar Academy set up in accordance with the Regulation. at a workplace is fifty or more, then the board shall be Mentoring scope over Enocta training platform. 982 hours of hygiene established by the main employer. The sub-employer, who Necessary notifications are communicated to the Ministry A Mentoring program was designed with the target of training was provided for our employees in 2015. is not obliged to establish a board, assigns an authorized of Environment and Urban Planning pursuant to Seveso II developing the potential managers, who will be assigned representative as proxy in order to ensure coordination in Çamlı Feed Regulation in order to prevent major industrial accidents in to important duties in realising Yaşar Group’s targets and relation with the application of the decisions taken by the the Coatings Group companies. in its future successes, by making use of the knowledge The efforts for preventing waste are continuing and a training board. and experiences of the managers of today. The managers, was provided for preventing time, paper, water, energy waste. In our companies, where a collective bargaining agreement c) If the number of employees of the sub-employer is fifty who will be included in the program scope as “mentor” are Personal and professional development trainings are provided is applied, agreement is ensured upon the protection of the or more and the number of employees of the main employer expected to transfer their knowledge and experiences to over Enocta training platform in Yaşar Academy scope. 123 right to live, which is the most basic and indispensable right, is less than fifty, then the board shall be established by the the managers and potential managers, who will be their hours of hygiene training was provided in 2015. and ensuring a sufficient level for the workplace conditions in sub-employer. The main employer assigns an authorized “mentees” by sparing the necessary time for this purpose. terms of health and safety in order to increase efficiency in Pınar Meat production and the necessity of training and controlling the representative to the board established by the sub-employer The purpose of the Mentoring Program is ensuring the as proxy in order to ensure coordination and cooperation. The activities for preventing waste are continuing and workers in this area. transfer of the knowledge, experience and culture in the 451 hours of training is provided to the employees for the d) If the number of employees of the main employer and company from generation to generation, ensuring the rapid The headings related in compliance with occupational health prevention of time, paper, water, energy waste. Also 311 the sub-employer are less than fifty separately and if the adoption of institution culture, feeding the Group with its and safety rules, strict compliance with the precautions hours of environmental awareness training is provided to number of total employees is more than fifty, the coordination own resources, extension and reinforcement of in Group and measures taken by the Occupational Safety Board, increase the level of environmental awareness. Personal shall be ensured by the main employer and a board shall communication network with an inter-companies approach, assignment of an employee representative for the and professional development trainings are being provided be established by the main employer and the sub-employer increasing employee loyalty and strengthening leadership representation of employees in Occupational Safety Boards, in Yaşar Academy scope over Enocta training platform. 492 together. In the formation of the board, the members shall properties. use of personal protective equipment and discipline penalties hours of hygiene training was provided for our employees in be assigned with the joint decision of both employers under in case of incompliance with the rules are included in 2015. article 6. collective bargaining agreements. 68 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 69 Dyo Good Examples and Developments From unit, a hoop/film carrying cart is constructed to prevent the Occupational Health and Safety Dyo Pınar Pınar Çamlı Viking Pınar Yaşar Altın Occupational Health and Safety Printing YBP Desa Companies possible work accidents and waist diseases. In Şanlıurfa Coating Meat Dairy Feed Tissue Water Holding Yunus Factory, a near miss board is installed at the entrance of the Inks Altın Yunus cafeteria for the personnel to notify the near miss events they Hazard Class have been subject to. The diversity of the bottled gas being Workplace Regular board meetings are being held within the scope High High used at the factory was increased and a wire fence room was Hazardous Low Hazardous of OHS activities. Worksite physician, Class B OHS expert, Hazardous Hazardous constructed for the correct and healthy storage of the bottles. employer’s representative, employee representatives and human resources expert attend to this board and the unit Viking Tissue managers participate although this is not compulsory. OHS Board Yes/No The decisions are taken with the majority of the votes. Converting it into a short stay unit extended the physical Yes No* The represented labor force is 94% (Management 20%, area of the infirmary in the company. By this way, medical Front Office 11%, Floor Services 17%, Food and Beverage treatments can be applied by both the worksite physician *It is not obligatory to have OHS Board in companies, where the employee number is less than 50. Directorate 35%, Technical Service 11%). and other healthcare personnel whenever necessary. First Work Accidents and Lost Days aid cabinets located at certain points in our enterprise A lightning arrestor design was prepared in the reporting were renewed. The actions related with the risks that were No occupational disease case is encountered in our Group, and the information on work accidents is given in the following table. period, lighting, noise, air conditioning, gas and dust uncovered as the result of the “Occupational Risk Analysis” measurements were performed and incompliances were Accident Frequency Rate Lost Day Rate Absentee Rate performed were continued. Occupational Health and Safety remedied. Emergency action, fire and evacuation drill was Region Female Male Female Male Female Male Board holds regular meetings and hold our OHS performance performed. Çamlı Feed Aegean 122,674 132,104 0,000 0,001 0,013 0,014 has been reviewed and improved constantly. The minutes of Near miss reports were explained one by one to all the board are being shared with all employees. Total OHS Dyo Coating Aegean 0,000 148,712 0,000 0,001 0,012 0,012 unit responsible personnel and in some sections, to the training hours in 2015 in comparison with the previous year Marmara 0,000 198,651 0,000 0,001 0,017 0,023 employees, and the employees started keeping those reports. was increased 6,7 times. Central Anatolia 0,000 0,001 Mediterranean 0,000 0,002 Dyo Coating YBP Black Sea 0,000 0,001 Within the scope of the First Air Regulation published by In 8 regional warehouses of YBP (Adana, Ankara RegionSoutheastern Anatolia 0,000 0,007 the Ministry of Health, first aid trainings are being provided Ankara Center, Antalya, Asia, Europe-Thrace, Bodrum, Bursa YBP Aegean 0,000 24,794 0,000 0,000 0,024 0,007 in our companies in order to allow first intervention to be and Izmir), emergency trainings were provided and building Marmara 94,473 98,979 0,001 0,001 0,023 0,011 made in case of possible accidents. The purpose of trainings evacuation-fire extinguishing drills were performed. At the 7th Central Anatolia 222,140 31,491 0,000 0,000 0,045 0,008 is to provide life-saving information to the personnel to be Regional Directorate (Ankara, Antalya, Asia, Europe, Bursa, Mediterranean 0,000 60,214 0,000 0,000 0,021 0,008 Izmir, Thrace) a total of 29 Occupational Health and Safety used in extraordinary cases for himself/herself, for his/her Black Sea 0,000 0,000 0,000 0,000 0,000 0,003 Board meetings were held. In regions, where there is no surrounding and affiliates and to intervene such cases by Pınar Meat Aegean 89,991 268,225 0,001 0,002 0,010 0,028 Occupational Health and Safety Boards (Bodrum 2, Adana 1), protecting their calmness. Pınar Dairy Aegean 270,962 343,693 0,001 0,002 0,071 0,019 environment checks were performed 3 times. Central Anatolia 1933,924 2172,726 0,003 0,001 0,032 0,023 In order to develop the technical competencies of our employees in the work branches, Occupational Health OHS applications of YBP on its subcontractor company Southeastern Anatolia 0,006 0,033 and Safety Training, Safe Chemical Use Training, Fire Dinçtem are as follows: Viking Tissue Aegean 40,891 256,233 0,000 0,004 0,014 0,022 Extinguishing Training etc are being held. Furthermore, • OHS Boards were established and regular meetings were Central Anatolia 0,000 0,000 0,000 0,002 the relevant trainings are provided within the scope of the held in Ankara, Izmir, Asia, Europe and Thrace regions, where Pınar Water Marmara 0,000 69,654 0,000 0,000 0,000 0,000 “Notification on the Professional Training of workers to the number of employees is 50 or more. Altın Yunus Aegean 44,914 26,217 0,000 0,000 0,016 0,011 • Employer representatives and emergency teams were be employed in Heavy and Hazardous works”, which was Number of working days is considered 365 days. prepared basing on the Labor Law numbered 4857. assigned in Ankara, Izmir, Asia, Europe and Thrace regions, Permanent sub-employeer temporary workers are included. First lost day is the day after the accident occurs. which have more than 50 employees and in Antalya, Bursa, Pınar Dairy Adana Regions and at Bodrum warehouse, which have 50 or Types of Injury more employees. In Pınar Dairy, many improvement activities and routine • First aid personnel in the number required by the law was Female Male applications are being performed in the scope of OHS. The selected and trained. dust exposure measurements of the employees of the milk Fall as the result of sliding on the floor Fall as the result of sliding on the floor • Dinçtem emergency teams were included in the emergency powder unit in İzmir Factory were made under the Regulation Foot crushing, head hit Foot crushing, head hit, arm hit trainings of YBP regional directorates to provide the necessary on Struggle Against Dust. As the result of the measurement, Jamming of hand and fingers, knee jamming Hand jamming training. exposure to dust was found to be high; therefore a suction Cuts Cuts • Personal protective equipment was provided and debited to system was installed at the powder filling point to decrease Foreign material in the eye Foreign material in the eye Dinçtem employees in accordance with their duties. the dust exposure of the employees. In the cheese packing Twisting as the result of trying to lift heavy loads Skin burns as the result of intervening to hot water lines Spill of chemicals on the face due to not using face protection Spill of chemicals on the face due to not using face protection while working with chemicals while working with chemicals 70 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 71 “Individual success is the very thing but collective successes must be spectacular!” Selçuk YAŞAR Caring for Business Partners Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management Stakeholder Opinion Originating from the understanding of “management of Altın Yunus locally supplies the vegetables and fruits, which and innovation. Presenting long-life milk in Tetra Pak, environmental, social and economic impacts of products constitute 5-10% of its total supply, and almost all of those which was the healthiest option for food safety, and thus and services during their lifecycle and encouragement of products are cultivated in Aegean Region. The organization human health to Turkish consumers 43 years ago is a good management practices”, includes its suppliers in its procures the meat and meat products, water, diary products good indicator of Pınar Dairy ethical approach. Acting sustainability approach. from Yaşar Group companies. The beverages are provided in compliance with the laws and ethic rules, attaching from well-known firms in the country through their dealers. importance to the environment and nature, keeping the Having a very big supply network consisting of different Security, garden pesticide application and landscaping approach of development and increasing the awareness sectors, our Group is trying to develop its suppliers and to services are outsourced. There are articles related with OHS of the society and providing safe, quality, innovative expand the sustainability approach to the entire value chain. in the supplier contracts. An audit is applied once a year for products to the future generations always at the topmost We organize regular trainings in order to improve the the food suppliers. In case any incompliance is detected, a level, Pınar Dairy has been an organization, of which performance of our suppliers. detailed notification is made to the supplier and a correction Tetra Pak is pleased to be a supplier. is requested. In case a correction is not made, a new supplier They are expected to comply with our principles and values, Beside our cooperation, Yaşar Group has become one is searched for. It is planned to add environmental and social standards and undertakings. Therefore, our control and audit of the leading organizations of our country with a high additional indicators to the supplier selection criteria after mechanism is operated with supplier assessment systems. social responsibility awareness with its support for both 2017. Our audits are focused on quality and product safety and basketball and activities for developing the society such criteria’s such as human rights and ethical practices are about Çamlı Feed is importing 60% of the raw materials used as the painting competition, which enlarges its admirer to be included. in the Feed Work Unit and is providing the remaining 40% population every year. from local resources. The products produced at Pınarbaşı The existing conditions and areas need to be improved by Did working with Pınar Dairy contribute to the Feed Production Plant of the company are delivered to the Nejat Çalışkan our suppliers these arias are assessed in audits carried out by development of you and your organization? small farms, to which sale is performed through agencies, Tetra Pak Turkey and Caucasians General Director our companies. A detailed notification is made to the supplier. big farms, cooperatives and milk unions to which direct sale Just as Pınar Dairy, Tetra Pak has determined its main We support our suppliers in preparing action plans which Can you explain your cooperation with Pınar is made. Furthermore, a part of the production is being used target as growing with its suppliers and producers. contain corrective measures, then the suppliers performance Dairy? by the enterprises of the company, which perform turkey and Working with an innovative brand, which presents longis monitored regularly to assess if the corrections have been fish production. Tetra Pak and Pınar Dairy have been fellow travelers life milk in cardboard package for the first time in Turkey, made and the ratio has been improved. These audits and and business partners basing on long years beyond making Turkish population gain long-life milk habit with feedbacks allow our companies as well as our suppliers to The concentrated feed raw materials used in Organic Milk their customer – supplier cooperation. As Tetra Pak, Pınar Dairy, have been important experiences for Tetra effectively perform risk management. Enterprise are provided from suppliers having organic we have the target of making the food products safe Pak. On the other hand, we can say that we obtained agriculture certificate in the country, while the coarse feed Furthermore, good practice examples are shared with and accessible everywhere with our customers. In line important contributions by integrating the experiences materials are grown on the lands of the enterprise and our suppliers and whenever necessary, trainings on those with this vision, Pınar Dairy presented Turkey’s first and knowledge of Pınar Dairy’s team to our projects. some of them are produced by the contracted farmers in the practices are provided. long-life milk (UHT) in Tetra Pak package to the Turkish region. The produced organic milk is sold to Pınar Dairy and We believe that the joint operation of such deep consumers under the brand name of Pınar. In other the grown calves are sold to other breeders in the region. rooted firms will contribute to the development of both Our suppliers, whom we support to increase their words, UHT milk started with Pınar Dairy in the Turkish performances, increase their competitive power while organizations and the biggest benefit of long-term, The fertilizers used in Plant Feeding Enterprise are collected market. In our co-operation continuing increasingly for managing their business processes more effectively. successful co-operations such as Pınar Dairy-Tetra Pak from the Organic Milk Enterprise and other farms in the more than 40 years, we brought different innovations will be for the consumers. In this respect, we would surrounding. The fertilizers, which are composted in the areas to the market with Pınar Dairy by protecting customer like to say that Pınar Dairy is a very valuable firm both belonging to the enterprise are pelletized, dried and packed. satisfaction at top level. for Tetra Pak and for the Turkish dairy industry and we The fertilizers are delivered to the farmers, who are our What do you think of Pınar Dairy’s ethical wish our successful journey fellowship continue for many customers, through the dealers. approach as a business partner? How do you more years. The eggs used for turkey production at the Poultry assess the contributions of the company to the Production Enterprise are provided from Canada through a environment and the society? representative in Turkey and become chickens in 28 days in Pınar Dairy and Tetra Pak have always been at the same our hatchery in Seferihisar-Izmir. The turkeys are transferred spot in terms of respect to human, the contribution to to the coops of our producers, from whom we obtain care the society, the importance given to the environment service, by our logistic supplier. Our veterinary responsible for the site makes weekly visits during the production process 74 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 75 Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management and follows the animal performance. At the end of 4-month Dyo Coating, the main production of raw materials namely Stakeholder Opinion raising period, another logistic supplier loads the turkeys from resin, solvent, monomer, titan, pigment and filling material their coops and sends them to Pınar Meat. with additive are provided through a wide supplier network. What do you think about Dyo’s ethics approach as More than 350 suppliers are worked with in raw material and The tiddlers used in fish production at the Sea Products a business partner? What do you think about the packaging area. Thanks to the resin production performed Enterprise are produced by using the broodstock fish of the contributions of the company to the environment in-house, Dyo Coating has important cost advantage in enterprise. The tiddlers are raised in ponds on the land for and society? the supply of this material and the global distribution of its a period of 4 months and then transferred to cages in the commercial product purchases is as follows: 42% Europe, We have always appreciated the sensitivity of Dyo and sea. They are grown for approximately 18 months there 25% Turkey, 9% America, 9% Middle East, 8% Far East and its employees about ethical values during our 30-year using the feeds obtained from the feed enterprise. 60% of 1% other countries. The sum of the products and services history. the harvested fish is exported and the remaining amount purchased locally constitute 37% of grand total. are delivered to the customers through the agencies in the Its brand value increases every year with the country. In service area 973, in raw material and packaging area investments it makes and the employment it creates, as 373, in machinery and spare parts are 250, in consumables well as sponsorships and social responsibility projects. The selection of new suppliers is performed in accordance area 94 and in commercial product area 32 suppliers, Thus the added value it provides to the environment and with the Supplier Selection and Assessment Criteria and corresponding to a total of 1.722 suppliers are collaborated the society provides an example to other firms. Methods Instruction. The necessary quality, food safety and with. All of our global suppliers have declarations on sustainability standards for each product are questioned. Did your collaboration with Dyo contribute to the sustainability and they have criteria such as business ethics, For the fish flour and fish fat suppliers, the existing quality development of your organization? environment policy, child labor, labor rights, fair trade, certificates, if any, the sustainability policies of the country social responsibility, equality, education in the context of the Working with Dyo has always been a pride for us. and/ or firm producing the fish flour and fat, MSC, IFFO sustainability strategy. We assume the brand as our own firm and we are certificates, the origin indicating the types of fish used in continuing business in this direction. We are trying to product production (if possible, including the origin ratios) The assessment of the firms included in our supply chain is Emrah Yapar replicate the activities of which Dyo leads the sector, as and/or relevant documents and certificate and/or letter of performed in line with ISO 9001 quality standards at producer Canay Coating Firm Partner much as possible and to create added value. As the Dyo compliance with legal fishing are asked and provided. firms. In 2015, 100% of our suppliers were subjected to Can you explain your cooperation with Dyo, which grows, we also grow proportionally. assessment within the frame of ISO 9001 criteria and 32 new In the supply of fish flour/fat used in fish feed production, is a Yaşar Group Company? firms were added to our supply chain, 25 of which are raw during each purchase, IUCN Red List is checked to see materials producers. Project works are commenced in 2015 in whether the fish species used for the production of the Our co-operation with Dyo goes back to 1985. We sell order to subject all of our suppliers to assessment about labor product are included in that list depending on the regions Dyo industrial paints. force practices, human rights and environmental criteria in of production of the suppliers. In case the species origin of compliance with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, SA8000. the product is included in that red list, that product is not Pınar Water presents Madran (Aydın-Bozdoğan), Gökçeağaç R&D And Quality Assurance Directorate divide our suppliers purchased. Furthermore, the improvements of suppliers are monitored (Sakarya-Hendek), and Akçaağaç (Isparta-Eğirdir) springs into two groups as the ones contacting and not contacting through the audits performed every year under the supplier Each supplier, from whom purchase is made, is subjected to the consumers in Turkey and in other countries with the with the product and prepares audit plans. It is a principle to improvement program for the determined suppliers. If to assessment by the Purchase and Quality Departments means of export under the brand name of Pınar Yaşam audit the suppliers contacting with the product once a year necessary, trainings are provided and site activities are once a year. When the Quality Directorate finds it necessary, Pınarım. Furthermore, it has released its mineral water and the suppliers not contacting with the product once every performed. The business with the suppliers, who remain it performs an on-site supplier audit in order to assess the products under the brand name of Pınar Denge. Pınar Water two years. The audits are performed on-side and quality, under the limit score is terminated. product provision competencies. The deficiencies are notified performs its sale to the consumers either through dealers or food safety, occupational health and safety, compliance to the suppliers and they are expected to remedy such Furthermore, all suppliers are assessed with AHP (Analytic directly to the customer warehouse. with environment systems are questioned. The audit letter deficiencies until the next year. Alternative suppliers are Hierarchy Process) method. Additional scores are given prepared by the R&D expert after the audit is sent to the Having 435 suppliers in 2015, Pınar Water takes management looked for or improvement activities can be performed for the to suppliers having systems such as 14001, 18001 and a Purchase Department and the suppliers. Each supplier is systems and certifications (ISO 9001, 14001, 18001, Food suppliers with a score under 80. Work with the suppliers with contribution is made to their total scores. assessed on 100 full score basing on the question list. The Safety, etc.) of the firms into consideration in supplier a score under 50 is terminated. Hence, the List of Approved supplier score average for 2015 is 90,1. selection. Audit visits are paid to the candidate firms by Suppliers is revised every year. the quality assurance and purchase teams. 36 audits were The number of suppliers subjected to assessment in 2015 in performed in 2015 in this context. terms of labor force and environmental impacts was 15. 76 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 77 Supply Chain Management Supply Chain Management Pınar Meat obtains the needed materials and services their quality is given. Pınar Dairy’s expert veterinarians visit Pınar Institute held trainings in Izmir-Tire in 2015 YBP distributes food and beverage products of both Pınar in compliance with the ethical and moral rules, all legal periodically, contracted farms which are suppliers of livestock. following Muğla and Eskişehir for training the producers Dairy and Pınar Meat as well as the other producer’s legislation, Pınar Meat Purchase Regulations and Procedures. Our expert veterinarians provide training on-site. All of the within the scope of; “The Future of Our Milk is In Conscious products. Our sale teams and distribution fleet play an The main supply items of the company are livestock performed works are recorded. A penalty is applied to the Hands” project targeting collaboration between the public, active role in the distribution of those products; and they are purchase, food auxiliary materials, packing materials, farms, whose sample averages are out of standard, based on private sector and university. Continuing since 2014, more distributed to the markets, which are traditional channels, operation materials, spare parts, investment and equipment the milk price, and premiums are paid for the farms compliant than 5.000 producers were trained during the trainings. to chain markets, consumption outside home points and to purchases. with the standards. Detailed information on the topic can be accessed from the overall Turkey through the dealers. “Sustainable Agriculture and Livestock” section. Almost 90% of livestock supply is provided within the Pınar Meat and Pınar Dairy completed the infrastructure YBP is very careful about the selecting process of customers country. Approximately 90% of our domestic supply is from of “Increasing Supplier Performance” project, which will Pınar Newspaper, being an important reference for the other than Pınar. It pays attention to ensure that the Aegean and Mediterranean Regions and rarely livestock enter into force in 2016 in relation with the selection of milk and meat stockbreeding farmers about topics such as customers are in the same line with Pınar brand values, that is supplied from Central Anatolia. In the transportation of new suppliers and business partners for a sustainable and stockbreeding, milk technologies, livestock health, is issued they are complementary to and supportive of Pınar products, animals, the Regulation on the Transportation of Animals and quality supply. In the scope of this project, the suppliers quarterly and is prepared for 20.000 producers providing that they comply with the laws and ethical values, and that Animal Products in the Country and the rules on the Welfare will start signing the Supplier Protocol evidencing that they livestock and milk for Pınar. they pay care to consumer health and product quality. and Protection of Animals During Their Transportation are comply with “Compliance with Laws and Regulations, Human Viking Tissue prepared the technical specifications related Quality system based audits are performed in supplier complied with. Our Meat Raw Material Purchase Directorate Rights, Fair Working Standards, Environmental Responsibility, with the materials/products/services to be provided under selection. Furthermore, our suppliers are assessed once performs the livestock purchase operations with a team Struggle against corruption”, which also include the criteria of the Purchase Procedure. An important part of the auxiliary a year and reported in terms of food safety, food quality consisting of veterinary and agricultural engineers. Global Compact. materials used in the process are being provided from and social responsibility by an auditing firm. The audited The animals that we purchase are examined and their In the existing supplier assessment system, the supplier other countries. Projects are implemented for the creation criteria exists in our supplier contracts. The matters open compliance with our standards is checked. The livestock firm performance is monitored and assessed through the of domestic alternative suppliers for those materials. Raw for development, which are determined in the process, purchased by the Raw Material Purchase Directorate are collaboration of Purchase and Quality Assurance units. Our material and auxiliary raw material purchases are made both are notified to the supplier firms and their development is transported with livestock transportation vehicles authorized raw material, auxiliary material and packaging material from Turkey and other countries. The used raw materials supported. by the Provincial Directorates of Agriculture. In case of longsuppliers are being assessed in quarterly periods basing have Forest Management Council Protection Chain (FSC CoC) Audits especially about compliance with environmental criteria distance animal transportation, our animals are taken into on the criteria determined within the scope of “Supplier certificate. This way, forest management is supported and are performed for the service providers in logistic area. At this processes after being kept waiting in resting paddocks. Assessment Procedure” and efforts are shown to improve provision of raw materials of our products from controlled stage of following the agreement with the dealers, follow up them with corrective and preventive activities. In this scope, sources is warranted. Pınar Meat gives the opportunity of improvement to the is performed especially for social security premium payments the suppliers are classified in accordance with the risk groups contracted farms, from which it provides livestock, through The sale of our products in Izmir Aliağa campus is made of sales support personnel. and in line with this, the type of assessment is determined. the visits periodically made by the expert veterinaries, through agencies and directly through customers in Turkey, With the performed audits and assessments, it is ensured provides trainings on animal health and welfare practices and and the sales in other countries, they are made through that the suppliers perform production in compliance with food follows up on their development. our Export Directorate. Viking Tissue, collaborated with 650 safety and Pınar quality. The determined deficiencies and the suppliers in 2015. Product certification, management system Pınar Dairy produces milk, yogurt, ayran, cheese, fruit juice, matters requiring correction/improvement are reported to the documents (ISO 9001, 14001, 18001, 50001) technical butter, cream, ketchup, mayonnaise, honey, sauce, jam, suppliers and their correction is ensured. The firms, which do service infrastructure and the references are among the deserts and powder products. The production sites are in not ensure the necessary improvement about topics, which requested criteria in supplier selection. Izmir, Eskişehir and in newly opened Şanlıurfa factories. are required to be corrected in the provided period, are taken out of the supplier list and purchases from that firm The company works under contracts at 358 different points are stopped until the necessary improvement is obtained. In including 144 farms for quality raw material supply and is supplier assessments, Environmental Management Systems, supporting its more than 20.000 producers. Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems and social responsibility matters are examined by the Quality Raw milk is purchased from 4 supplier groups in 22 provinces Assurance teams. in total, namely village, cooperative, farm and company. Milk samples are taken from our farms minimum twice a month. The results are notified to the farm owner and information on 78 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 79 “Each and every industrialist and intellectuals should focus not only on economic development but also on human beings and their environment.” Selçuk YAŞAR Caring for Environment Environment Management Water Management Environment Management Water Management Climate change, population increase and the rapid decrease Environmental Targets The pressure on water resources are increasing everyday Good Practices and Developments From in resources have brought environmental risks. This condition due to the climate change. Less than 1% of water resources Companies Being determined in the scope of our sustainability approach, created new business models shaping in the context of are concluded to be the primary reason of existence for sustainability for the business world and those business “water management”, “energy and climate change” and Altın Yunus all life and this ratio is continuously decreasing. When an “waste management” are the environment-related priorities models showed methods of reducing environmental impact. assessment is made for our country, which is not rich in The water used in Altın Yunus is obtained with an artesian of our Group. water resources, it is obviously seen that per capita and per system and thereafter passed through reverse osmosis Our Group, has noticed the environments importance since Significant results are being obtained in the management of production water consumption has to be reduced and the system and made ready for use. A total of 101.442 m3 of it is one of the main factors steering its activities, is acting to factors which are effective on climate change, especially in amount of usable water has to be increased. water were produced in 2015. The waste waters used in the decrease environmental impact at any stage from investment terms of reducing the carbon emissions. In this light carbon facility are treated at the waste water treatment plant and are decisions to the production processes, from distribution to Adopting an efficient use principle for resources, our Group footprint calculations performed on corporate basis for 10 recovered to be used in garden, forest area irrigation. Hence, final consumption, to improve business processes and to use added water management among its priorities and started companies of our Group, have aimed a reduction target of 100% of the consumed water is recycled. In order to use the the resources efficiently. the water footprint studies. In 4 of our chosen facilities 15% per unit ton production. This target was announced to water with saving, all water consumptions are followed up among different sectors and basins, the implementation of All of our Group companies have exhibited the precautious be realized until the year 2020. Started in 2014, the activities with daily additional counters and appropriate methods are the projects Water/ Waste Water Management Assessment approach which simply states that “In cases where there is for greenhouse gas inventory management system, which continuously being developed by the technical personnel. and Water Efficiency Improvement Opportunities were started a serious and irreversible damage to the environment, and allows collection of data on the Group companies in a single in 2014. In this context, in 2015, water footprint calculations Çamlı Feed if there is a lack of scientific definiteness to this damage the system and their instantaneous follow up, were completed were performed for Dyo Coating Gebze, Pınar Dairy Eskişehir, definiteness cannot be used as a reason of delay in taking and the system was commissioned in 2015. In 2015, 2.380.034 m3 surface water and 2.083.193 m3 Viking Tissue Aliağa and Çamlı Feed Manisa Beydere Milk any cost effective precautions that will prevent damage to the underground water were drawn. There is no recycled or Our Group Companies target sustainability in efficiency Breeding Enteprise facilities and Water Efficiency and Risk environment. reused water. There is no resource that is significantly increase with their activities performed for issues such as Assessment Reports were prepared for those facilities. The tools that we developed to effectively manage our affected by the drawn water. energy saving, process design, loss-cost optimizations with In the studies, water and waste water map was prepared, environmental impact are based on the protection of Lean 6 Sigma and OCI (Operational Cost Improvement). Dyo Coating water pinch analysis, water and waste water analysis were environment and biodiversity, responsible resource use, Being included in the work program of our Sustainable performed, water and waste water performance indicators development of environment-friendly work processes, Dyo Coating takes water from the city supply. Therefore, Development Committee, the water footprint activities were determined, sector comparison was made and the implementation of investment programs in accordance with there is no water source that is significantly affected. provided valuable outputs in the areas of water use and opportunities of improvement were determined for water the environmental impact assessments. In this context, our waste water. In 4 of our facilities selected from different efficiency. Furthermore, a comparison with the quality criteria efforts for reducing the toxic and chemical use as well as sectors and basins in 2014, Water/Waste water Management for water recovery was performed. As the result of the Water Consumption on The Basis of Years (m3/year) carbon dioxide emissions and reduction of toxic and chemical Assessment and Water Efficiency Improvement Opportunities analysis, it was seen that the waste waters could be assessed materials, making water management effective, reducing the projects were implemented. The water footprint calculation in many processes. Years Çiğli Dilovası Manisa amount of waste water and reflection of good practices are activities, which we started in Dyo Coating Gebze, Pınar Dairy 2014 34.988 106.131 1.235 continuing. Our investment decisions are taken by taking into The studies we performed for water use and waste water Eskişehir, Viking Tissue Aliağa and Çamlı Feed Manisa Beydere 2015 36.630 112.058 1.622 consideration the flora and fauna of the relevant region and management indicated that 20% to 40% water saving at Milk Breeding Enterprise facilities were completed in 2015. by completing the environmental impact assessments. our facilities were crucial, the preparation of a periodic In the facilities, for which risk assessments were completed, Pınar Meat maintenance and repair procedure with water reduction Our Goup takes as reference and develops environment the possible risks and the areas of improvements were target and the performance of improvement studies were Targets an efficient management of water use, in all the management policies, international standards as well as good determined. To increase savings and reduce water use per have importance. Thus, Our Group plans to expand the water production processes. With this regard Pınar Meat made practice examples and assessments of various initiatives such unit ton of production studies were conducted upon waste footprint calculation study to other facilities. a change in the cleaning applications, which relies heavily as UNGC and CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). Stakeholder water. These activities target a water saving of 20% to 40% on water usage. This change provided savings of the water expectations and recommendations, scientific and technologic in our facilities. Water Efficiency and Risk Assessment Reports Among our Group companies, Pınar Dairy participated in CDP consumption through measurement and monitoring activities developments also provide improvement opportunities in are completed for these facilities, for which water footprint (Carbon Disclosure Project) Carbon and Water Disclosure in 2015. The amount of water consumed in 2015 is 732.564 areas of environment management. The system security calculations are completed. Program, in 2015 which acts to decrease the impacts of m3. In comparison with the previous year, a decrease of of our environment management tools is ensured with ISO climate change and to contribute to the effective distribution Targeting recovery in packaging, our Group assumes package 12,7% unit tons in total water consumption and a decrease of 14001 Environment Management System, which is accepted of resources. In accordance with CDP 2015 Climate Change waste as an economic value and follows a process starting 5,89% per product, was ensured. as the basic methodology in this area. Report for Turkey, Pınar Dairy is the first dairy producer, from the design phase for less waste production and for the who voluntarily responded to CDP climate change program. Within the scope of “Green Belt” project, saving was ensured The trainings we provide about in environment prove to use of the material that will cause the least damage to the Furthermore, it has been one of the companies in rank 6 in in both water consumption and energy consumption by be effective in increasing our environment management environment after production and consumption. transparency category with a grading score of 95B in CDP installing staged hydrophore operating in accordance with performance. The trainings we provided for our suppliers and Our studies for increasing recycling in the entire value chain grading methodology. dealers, and especially for our employees, increase awareness and for the production of less waste are ongoing without and ensure diversification of environment protection methods. interruption. 82 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 83 Energy and Climate Change Water Management Energy and Climate Change load instead of the old pumps providing hot water for the Pınar Dairy Climate change is an issue discussed on global plane due Efficiency in logistic processes is also targeted with the facility. After this project, a similar implementation was made to its effects and requires international cooperation. The studies supporting the “green logistic” concept. Ensuring The total amount of water drawn by Pınar Dairy in 2015 occurring effects result in companies to develop new business efficiency in national terrestrial operations in the entire also on the cold water system. is 2.090.764 m3. Our plants acting in Organized Industrial models, while opening the path for a low carbon economy. country with the new route optimization model, our Group At the facilities of Pınar Meat in Kemalpaşa OIR, DSİ-licensed Regions meet their water needs from underground water contributes to environmental sustainability with the model underground waters are being used; and in Işıkkent Facility wells belonging to the OIR within the frame of the regulations Since our Group acts in different sectors of areas that will be based on more transportation volume with less distance. The city supply water is being used. The water used in the made in OIR. directly affected by climate change, developments are closely service qualities and performances of service provider firms steam boiler is subjected to reverse osmosis operation in followed up on and climate change is assessed on the basis Water Consumption providing logistic services are regularly analyzed every month order to ensure saving in the energy and natural resource of risks and opportunities. in the scope of Lean 6 Sigma. consumptions. Izmir Factory 938.030 m3 Climate change brings economic and social effects as well Eskişehir Factory 921.401 m3 Total Energy Consumption (Gigajoule) Pınar Meat recovers approximately 8.709,12 ton/year of the as environmental effects. Therefore, our Group follows an Şanlıurfa Factory 231.333 m3 integrated approach in its studies. While risk assessments water it uses. Total 2.090.764 m3 are performed along the entire value chain, the studies for In Accordance Trainings on the efficient use of water are given to all newly reducing carbon footprint and energy density are continuing. with Primary 2014 2015 recruited personnel-including apprentices and apprentice At Eskişehir factory, water counters are placed at each point Energy Source students. The current environmental issues are shared of use for measurement and the average consumption values Our Group, which calculated carbon footprint for 10 Direct Energy with the prepared environment bulletins and informing and are determined. The studies are ongoing for following up companies on corporate basis, announced in 2012 its target 2.142.514 1.812.181 Consumption awareness increasing activities are being implemented. the consumptions by installing counters on ground washing of reducing its average carbon footprint with 15% per unit Indirect Energy satellite lines and for the determination of ideal washing ton production until 2020 with the Greenhouse Gas Reduction 328.385 385.484 Water Consumption in Years Consumption amounts. Automatic bluff system installed on evaporative Project. As of 2015, a reduction of 6,41% was ensured in condenser and water cooling towers ensured water and carbon footprint. The most important reason for carbon In Yaşar Group companies, the non-renewable energy 2014 2015 energy saving. reduction ratio, which was 10,94% as of the end of 2014, to resources consist of electricity, natural gas, LPG, LNG, m water/ton product 3 18,34 17,26 become 6,41% in 2015, is the capacity increase caused by Coal and Vehicle fuel. There is no renewable energy use, In Şanlıurfa Factory, the construction and commissioning of m 3 839.425 732.564 Şanlıurfa factory taken to production by Pınar Dairy in 2015. for now. In all companies, energy consumption, heating the treatment plant, continuously target determination to consumption and vapor consumption are not calculated reduce water use, performing measurements by installing Our Group uses national and international criteria and Pınar Water separately, however Carbon Footprint calculations are made machine-based water counters and for the determination of standards in its carbon emission studies. ISO 50001 and so as to cover all those energy consumptions. Among Yaşar • The spring of Pınar Yaşam Pınarım Aydın Bozdoğan Facility average consumption value are ongoing. ISO 14064-1 system standards guide us in our studies. In Group companies, Desa is an electricity production company, originates on Madran Mountain, which is fed from Akçay our reporting studies, ISO 14064-1 “Guide and Properties Basin. The spring is at a distance of 5 km to Madran Viking Tissue therefore the product of this company is electricity and it is related with the Calculation and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas being sold. Desa also produces vapor and this is sold to the Quarter, and at an elevation of 1.006 m on Madran Viking Tissue started its water footprint calculation studies Emissions at Foundation Level” is used. Group companies. Mountain. under the consultancy of GTE Carbon and Water Footprint The studies for greenhouse gas inventory management Network and issued its first report in April 2015. Activities for Resources are indicated herein above, are converted into GJ • The spring of Isparta Eğirdir Facility is fed from Davraz system, which allows gathering and following up the data projects of reducing water consumption were commenced and reported as Direct and Indirect Energy Consumptions. Basin. The spring is at a distance of 5 km to Aşağı Gökdere belonging to our companies in a single system, were and cooperated with TTGV (Turkish Technology Development The consumption amount of all energy types are converted Village, which is the closest settlement area, and is at 890 completed in 2015 and were taken to implementation for the Foundation) for this purpose. With the prepared Water into GJ with the help of energy unit conversion factors. m elevation on Taurus mountain. calculations. Management Report, the water map of the system and water • The spring of Sakarya Hendek Facility is fed from Sakarya pinch analysis were prepared in detail and their points of Complying with the general Group targets and strategies Basin. The spring is at a distance of 2 km to the closest recovery were determined. about climate change and energy that we assess in the settlement area and is at an elevation of 650 m on Keremali scope of environment management, our companies perform Viking Tissue obtains the water necessary for the process Mountain. studies in their geography and sector of activity. Projects are from underground waters through the use of wells. In 2015, developed to reduce energy consumptions and to ensure • The spring of Bursa Inegöl Facility is fed from Sakarya the amount of drawn water was 1.095.680 m3. In 2015, total efficiency increase in business units with Lean 6 Sigma Basin on its northern hillsides. The spring is at a distance water footprint was reduced 40% in comparison with year project implementations. of 9 km to the closest settlement area and is at 1.500 m 2012. elevation on Uludağ Mountain. Due to the continuous growth of Aliağa Organized Industrial The regulations of Special Provincial Directorates, Region located in the region of Viking Tissue production Municipalities and State Hydraulic Works are taken as basis in campus, and due to the agricultural lands in the close the management of all springs. surrounding, water management is very important for the local population and the population interested in Agriculture. Therefore, the water management studies of Viking Tissue gain importance. 84 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 85 Energy And Climate Change Waste Management Waste Management Waste Management Stakeholder Opinion Greenhouse Gas Emissions The most important effective solution in efficient resource use is a successful waste management and recycling method. Using the packaging materials that will produce the least firms releasing packaged products started transferring kg. CO2/year 2014 2015 amount of waste and that will cause the least damage to the their obligations to ÇEVKO for the recovery of packaging Scope 1 145.045.791 155.459.916 environment in their entire life cycle is of utmost importance. wastes. Scope 2 104.187.482 107.313.700 Our Group companies are continuing their innovative studies Our foundation is continuing its activities currently with Direct and Indirect Energy Greenhouse Gas Emissions are about the recycling of industrial wastes and are continuously almost 2.000 releasing firms within the frame of the calculated in accordance with ISO 14064 Chapter 1. The updating their practices. Trainings on waste management obligations determined in the “Regulation on the Control calculations include the greenhouse gases mentioned in ISO are being provided in the entire organization and the coof Package Wastes”, which entered into force in August 14064 (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC’s, PFC’s, SF6) and does not include operation that we established with our stakeholders are being of 2011. biogenic emissions. Although the choice of base year differs developed. for each company in the calculations, it is chosen as 2010 or Since 2005, ÇEVKO takes over the obligations of Pınar Many of our companies are in co-operation with licensed 2011. The base year choices are made so as to choose the Water arising out of the relevant regulation under the organizations following the package wastes management years, during which they operated under conditions close mutually signed contract, and complies with those plan, which is approved by the Ministry of Environment and to the ideal arrangements of the enterprises. The emission obligations before the Ministry. Urbanization and prepared within the frame work of the factors are taken from domestic public institution annual contracts and submitted to the Ministry in relation with the Can you briefly assess the impact of those reports (such as TEİAŞ) or from the annual country reports collection and recycling of the packaging wastes. activities on the society? of international organizations such as IPCC or UNFCC. The consolidation approach preferred for emissions is the Environment Protection and Package Wastes Evaluation ÇEVKO holds consumer informing and training administrative control approach. Foundation (ÇEVKO), in which one of the founder members activities in order to comply with the obligations it is Pınar Water, is among the organizations that we co-operate has undertaken. It is involved in practices for the Okyar Yayalar, with. Our Group is continuing its activities with ÇEVKO in separate collection and assessment of package wastes ÇEVKO Foundation Chairperson of Board of order to expand the recycling and conversion culture in the at their source with the local administrations and Directors society and to develop responsible consumption habits. licensed firms. It takes over a role in the creation of Can you explain the dimensions of your the recovery sector related with the assessment of the Recovery Amount as of Years (%) cooperation with Pınar Water among Yaşar Group collected wastes and performs education activities for companies and the studies you are involved in? informing the consumers, and especially the primary Type of package 2014 2015 2016* education students about recovery. This way, ÇEVKO Paper cardboard 44 48 52 ÇEVKO is a non-profit organization established with the fills an important gap in the system development and Plastic 44 48 52 attempts of 14 leading industrial organizations of our sustainability stage. Glass 44 48 52 country, including Pınar Water, on November 1st 1991 in Metal 44 48 52 order to contribute to the establishment of a sustainable What do you think of Pınar Water’s contributions Wood 5 5 7 recovery system with the participation and contribution to the environment and society? Can you assess (*) Planned of industry, local administration and consumers for the Pınar Water as a corporate citizen? economic and regular recovery of package wastes in Hazardous and Evaluable Waste Amounts Pınar Water is one of the most responsible industrial Turkey. firms of Turkey, which complies with all its undertakings Setting off with 14 members in 1991, ÇEVKO was within the frame of the regulations issued by the Ministry Kg Hazardous Evaluable announced as the Authorized Organization by the of Environment and Urbanization, which is aware of Pınar Meat 20.111 3.219.598 Ministry of Environment and Urbanization within the all its responsibilities related with environment, which Çamlı Feed 3.550 289.805 frame of “Regulation on the Control of Packages and transfer resources to the system for the development of Viking Tissue* 35.630** 250.455 Package Wastes”, which was published in 2005 in the system of package wastes recovery. Pınar Dairy 50.510 6.057.230 Turkey’s EU integration process. Starting as of 2005, the Dyo Coating 3.834.867 2.120.370 Dyo Printing Inks 800.000 220.000 (*) Amount of non-hazardous and evaluable sludge 26.570.150 kg (**) Evaluable and recyclable hazardous wastes 86 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 87 Waste Management Waste Management Environmental Benefit Obtained with Recovered Wastes The amounts of glass, metal, plastic, composite and paper/cardboard type package wastes that are recovered by our Group companies in co-operation with ÇEVKO and the created environmental benefit are indicated hereunder. * The environmental benefits have been realized during 2010-May 2016 period. 88 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 89 Waste Management Waste Management Good Practices and Developments From Dyo Coating performs waste management in compliance Pınar Water Companies with the regulations issued by Ministry of Environment and Within the frame of the ratios indicated in the icon “Lighter Urbanization. The method of removal for each type of waste Altın Yunus is indicated in the regulations. bottle, weight is reduced ..%”, which is included on our plastic bottle products, we reduced our package weights as The wastes produced at the facility are separated through Pınar Meat follows; on-site sorting and then collected in areas determined in the hotel. Those wastes are given to the recycling firms on time. Plastic waste loss ratios are decreased through the 23% for our 0,33 lt products, The hazardous wastes are periodically removed from the modernization of packaging lines, use of packaging machines 26% for our 0,5 lt products, facility by licensed firms in the same way. with a less technologic loss and training of packaging 18% for our 1,5 lt products and machine operators in relation with this matter. In the white A total of 105.346 m3 of thermal water was discharged to 12% for our 5 lt products. meat section, the plastic waste loss ratio was decreased from the sea in 2015. Since thermal water has the properties 0,14% in 2014 to 0,03% in 2015, in the advanced processed Pınar Dairy of sea water, it does not cause water pollution. Since the foods section, from 2,34% to 1,60% and in the meat product water facility uses is recovered for reuse at the waste water A treatment plant was installed and commissioned at Pınar packaging section from 2.42% to 1.68%. treatment plant, it is not discharged. There has not been any Dairy Şanlıurfa Factory in 2015. important leakage in our facility in 2015. Pınar Meat placed waste collection containers in its factories in order to facilitate the collection and sorting of wastes The waste waters produced at Pınar Dairy factories are Çamlı Feed produced in the production processes. All recyclable wastes separated as domestic and process-sources. Under the are sorted at the source in the entire factory. discharge permission document obtained from the relevant On-site practical trainings are provided by the environment organized industrial regions, the domestic waste waters are officer at the waste creation points. The waste creation 1 sapling is planted for each employee, who brings 10 discharged to OIR discharge point and process waste waters amounts are assessed at the management review meetings waste batteries. 386 saplings were planted through Regional are discharged to OIR treatment plants after being subjected held within the scope of ISO 14001 system and preventive Directorate of Forests against the waste batteries collected in to preliminary treatment at the waste water treatment plants actions are commenced at points having important 2015. in the factories. Rain waters are collected in a separate rain environmental impacts. water manhole and discharged to OIR rain water connections. The waters used in all production processes in Kemalpaşa In the Feed Enterprise water discharge is performed through Facility are treated at the waste water Treatment Plant, Viking Tissue İZSU canal. In Plant Feed Enterprise through İZSU canal, in which has a capacity of 2.500 m3/day in accordance with the Milk Breeding Enterprise through MASKİ canal, and in Poultry In 2015, 29.000 tons of scrap paper was processed and receiver environment discharge standards and are discharged Enterprise through İZSU canal with the help of vacuum truck. gained for economy at Deink Facility. The number of trees to the receiver environment (Nif Brook). The treatment In the Sea Enterprise water is discharged to sea. There is corresponding to this amount of scrap paper is 290.000. method used is physical, chemical and biological treatment. no water mass that is significantly affected by the water In Işıkkent Facility, the waste waters that are subjected to discharge. There has not been any important leakage and With the amendment made in Water Pollution Control preliminary treatment are discharged to İZSU canal and spillage so as to cause damage to the environment in Çamlı Regulation, the waste water sector criteria were changed. physical and chemical treatment method is used. Actions Feed activities in 2015. While being analyzed only with 3 parameters before, the are taken in accordance with the requested water discharge number of parameters used for analyzing the waste water of Dyo Coating quality reference values. The waste waters are not used by Viking Tissue was increased to 9. any other organization. There has not been any leakage For all factories, waste water discharge is made to the waste recorded in our facility in 2015. The treatment plant of Viking Tissue has been in operation water treatment facilities of organized industrial regions. since 1995 and is operated in accordance with aerobic The waste water is subjected to preliminary treatment prior treatment technique, which includes physical, chemical and to discharge. Compliance with KOİ, AKM and pH values has biological treatment units. The water discharged from the to be ensured, and there is a report prepared by the OIR in treatment plant reaches Güzelhisar Brook. There has not relation with this. There is no water mass that is significantly been any case causing any important leakage or spillage in affected by the water discharge. There has not been any 2015. leakage from our facilities in 2015. 90 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 91 G4-32 About The Report, GRI Index 4, 92-95 No GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index G4-33 About The Report, GRI Index 4, 92-95 No GOVERNANCE G4-34 Sustainability Managemet, Corporate Management 18-19, 24-25 No ETHICS AND INTEGRITY GRI G4 Content Index G4-56 Our Mission and Corporate Values, Ethics and Compliance 9, 24-26 No SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Identified GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Omission(s) / External Location Page Number General Indicators Explanation for Assurance Page External Omission(s) Standard Location Number Assurance Disclosures CATEGORY: ECONOMIC STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-1 Chairperson's Message, Chief Executive Officer's Message 2-3 No Economic Performance, Contribution to Local G4-DMA 16, 44, 46 No ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Economy, Community Investment G4-3 About The Report 4 No G4-EC1 Economic Performance, Community Investment 16-17, 46-49 No G4-4 Yaşar Group at a Glance, Corporate Profile 8, 10-11 No Chairperson's Message, Chief Executive Officer's G4-5 Yaşar Group at a Glance, Corporate Profile 8, 10-11 No Message, Sustainable Agriculture and Stock Breeding, 2-3, 40-41, 82, G4-EC2 No Environment Managemet, Energy and Climate 85-86 G4-6 Yaşar Group at a Glance, Corporate Profile 4, 8, 10-11 No Change G4-7 Yaşar Group at a Glance, Corporate Profile 8, 10-11 No Important Developmentes in 2015, Quality, G4-8 Yaşar Group at a Glance, Corporate Profile 8, 10-11 No Innovation and R&D, Sustainable Agriculture 12, 34-39, G4-9 Ekonomic Performance, Profile of Employees 16-17, 56-57 No G4-EC7 and Stock Breeding/Producer Support Programs, 40-41, 44-45, No G4-10 Profile of Employees 56-62 No Contribution to Local Economy, Community 46-53 Profile of Employees, Appropriate Working Conditions/Union and Collective G4-11 57, 64 No Investment Bargaining Agreement Important Developments in 2015, Quality, Innovation G4-12 Caring for Business Partners 74-79 No and R&D, Sustainable Agriculture and Stock 12, 34-39, Corporate Profile, Important Developments in 2015, Ekonomic 10-12, 16-17, G4-13 No G4-EC8 Breeding/Producer Support Programs, Contribution 40-41, 44-45, No Performance, Corporate Management, Caring for Business Partner 24-25, 74-79 to Local Economy, Community Investment, Caring for 46-53, 74-79 G4-14 Ethics and Compliance, Risk Management 24-27 No Business Partners G4-15 Sustainability Management 18-19 No MATERIAL ASPECT: SOURCING PRACTICES G4-16 Memberships 22-23 No Quality, Innovation and R&D, Sustainable Agriculture IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES 34-39, 40-43, G4-DMA and Stock Breeding, Animal Welfare, Caring for No 74-79 G4-17 About the Report, http://www.yasar.com.tr/ 4 No Business Partners G4-18 About the Report, Material Sustainability Topics 4, 5-7 No FP-2 Management Systems, Animal Welfare 36-37, 42-43 No G4-19 Material Sustainability Topics 5-7 No CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-20 Material Sustainability Topics 5-7 No MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-21 Material Sustainability Topics 5-7 No Environment Management, Environmental Targets, G4-DMA 82, 85-86 No There hasn’t Energy and Climate Change G4-22 been any data No G4-EN3 Energy and Climate Change 85-86 No restated. G4-EN4 Energy and Climate Change 85-86 No G4-23 Material Sustainability Topics 5-7 No G4-EN6 Environmental Targets, Energy and Climate Change 82, 85-86 No STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-24 Stakeholder Dialogue, Material Sustainability Topics 20-21, 5-7 No Environment Management, Environmental Targets, G4-DMA 82, 83-84 No G4-25 Stakeholder Dialogue, Material Sustainability Topics 20-21, 5-7 No Water Management G4-26 Stakeholder Dialogue, Material Sustainability Topics 20-21, 5-7 No G4-EN8 Water Management 83-84 No G4-27 About The Report, Material Sustainability Topics 4, 5-7 No G4-EN9 Water Management 83-84 No REPORT PROFILE G4-EN10 Water Management 83-84 No G4-28 About The Report 4 No MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-29 Yaşar 2014 Sustainability Report was published on July 4th 2015. No Environment Management, Environmental Targets, G4-DMA 82, 85-86 No G4-30 Annual No Energy and Climate Change G4-31 About The Report 4 No G4-EN15 Energy and Climate Change 85-86 No 92 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 93 G4-EN16 Energy and Climate Change 85-86 No MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI G4 Content Index GRI G4 Content Index G4-EN19 Energy and Climate Change 85-86 No Employee Rights, Union and Collective Bargaining G4-DMA 63-64 No MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE Agreement Environment Management, Environmental Targets, Union and Collective Bargaining Agreement, Caring G4-DMA 82, 86-91 No G4-HR4 64, 74-79 No Waste Management for Business Partners The report contains MATERIAL ASPECT: HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS the quality and G4-DMA Business Ethics, Employee Rights 26, 63-64 No G4-EN22 Waste Management destination of the 86-91 No Business Ethics, Employee Rights, Equal Opportunity water discharge, G4-HR12 and Non-Discrimination, Forced Labor and 26, 63-64 No but not the volume. Involuntary Servitude G4-EN23 Waste Management 86-91 No SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY G4-EN24 Waste Management 86-91 No MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA Ethics and Compliance, Anti-Corruption Practices 24-26 No G4-DMA Caring for Business Partners 74-79 No G4-SO3 Anti-Corruption Practices 26 No G4-EN33 Caring for Business Partners 74-79 No G4-SO5 Anti-Corruption Practices 26 No CATEGORY: SOCIAL MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK G4-DMA Ethics and Compliance, Anti-Corruption Practices 24-26 No MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-SO7 Anti-Corruption Practices 26 No G4-DMA Caring for Employees 56, 63-68 No MATERIAL ASPECT: ANIMAL WELFARE G4-LA1 Profile of Employees 57-58 No Sustainable Agriculture and Stock Breeding, Animal G4-DMA 40-43 No Rights Offered to the Employees, Profile of Welfare G4-LA2 65, 59 No Employees FP-9 Animal Welfare 42-43 No G4-LA3 Profile of Employees 59 No FP-10 Animal Welfare 42-43 No MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY FP-11 Animal Welfare 42-43 No G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 69-71 No FP-12 Animal Welfare 42-43 No G4-LA5 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), OHS Boards 69-71 No FP-13 Animal Welfare 42-43 No G4-LA6 Work Accidents and Lost Days 70 No SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), Work MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-LA7 69-71 No Accidents and Lost Days Consumer/Customer Health and Safety, Quality, G4-DMA 30-33, 34-39 No G4-LA8 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) 69 No Innovation and R&D MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-PR1 Management Systems 36-37 No G4-DMA Employee Development 66-68 No G4-PR2 Consumer/Customer Health and Safety, 30 No G4-LA9 Training and Development Activities 66-68 No Management Systems, Sustainable Agriculture and FP-5 36-37, 40-43 No G4-LA10 Employee Development 66-68 No Stock Breeding, G4-LA11 Employee Development 66-68 No Percentages are MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY not reported due Employee Rights, Equal Opportunity and Nonto difficuties in G4-DMA 63-64 No FP-6 Increasing Access to Healthy Food 31 No Discrimination reaching exact G4-LA12 Profile of Employees 59 No data and private MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES information. Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), Caring for FP-7 Increasing Access to Healthy Food 31 No G4-DMA 69-71, 74-79 No MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Business Partners Occupational Health and Safety (OHS), Caring for G4-DMA Consumer/Customer Health and Safety 30-33 No G4-LA15 69-71, 74-79 No Business Partners Customer and Consumer Informing and Ethical G4-PR3 32 No SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Marketing MATERIAL ASPECT: INVESTMENT Customer and Consumer Informing and Ethical G4-PR4 32 No G4-DMA Ethics and Compliance 24-26 No Marketing G4-HR2 Business Ethics 26 No G4-PR5 Customer and Consumer Satisfaction 32-33 No MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Employee Rights 63-64 No G4-DMA Consumer/Customer Health and Safety 30-33 No G4-HR3 Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination 63 No Customer and Consumer Informing and Ethical G4-PR7 32 No Marketing 94 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report 95 UNGC Principles UNGC Principles Subjects UNGC Principles Page Numbers Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Human Rights 2-3, 8, 18-19 Yaşar Holding A.Ş. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Head Office association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Şehit Fethi Bey Cad. No: 120 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all 35210 Izmir Turkey Labor forms of forced and compulsory labor. 63-64, 69, 74 “Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report” is prepared exclusively Phone: +90 232 495 00 00 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of for informing purposes. Sources and information believed Fax: +90 232 484 17 89 483 46 59 child labor. to be true and reliable pertaining to the period covered by E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of the report were used. The content appearing in the present discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Web: www.yasar.com.tr report may not be interpreted as a statement, guarantee or Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. commitment, and the completeness and unchangeableness of Istanbul Representative Office the relevant content is not guaranteed. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote Environment 82-91 Setüstü No: 23 Kabataş greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and All rights pertaining to the present report belong to 34427 Istanbul Turkey diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Yaşar Holding A.Ş. Phone: +90 212 251 46 40 (Pbx) Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Fax: +90 212 244 42 00 Anti-Corruption 26 forms, including extortion and bribery. E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr Ankara Representative Office Contributors to the Report Content and Reporting Consultant Gazi Mustafa Kemal Bulvarı Mikado Sustainable Development Consulting Ali Suavi Sok. No: 11 Maltepe www.mikadoconsulting.com 06570 Ankara Turkey Phone: +90 312 294 92 00 (Pbx) Fax: +90 312 232 01 82 232 16 73 E-mail: info@yasar.com.tr 96 Yaşar 2015 Sustainability Report www.yasar.com.tr
