You Dream, We Display 2015-2016 LG Display Sustainability Report 01 About this Report This report is the fifth issue of LG Display sustainability. LG Display issues this report to share with its achievement toward “Global No.1 Sustainable Company” with our stakeholders. We have organized this report around our corporate vision “You Dream, We Display” with the accomplishments related to sustainable management issues. LG Display plans to continue its annual report on sustainability as a communication channel to our stakeholders. Reporting Regions and Period Reporting regions include LG Display Korea (Seoul head quarter, Gumi, Paju) and LG Display China (CA, Nanjing, Guangzhou, Yantai) This report shows our sustainable management activities from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 with the quantitative performance based on data gather over three years in order to present the trends more clearly. This report also includes a partial qualitative performance of early 2016. Reporting Principle & Assurance This report was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines at the Core Level and part of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) framework. Additionally, the credibility of the contents and the integrity of the data used in this report were verified by an independent and objective assurance group to ensure the reliability of the report. The detail information of the assurance group is provided on page 78 of this report. Further Information LG Display Sustainability Report can be searched and downloaded from its website at www.lgdisplay. com in Korean, English, and Chinese. Please contact LG Display CSR Team for more information or inquiries. LG Display CSR Team Address : 128 Yeo-ui Daero, Yeong Deung Po Gu, Seoul, Korea TEL : 02.3777.0865 EMAIL : csr@lgdisplay.com Cover Story LG Display is dedicated to make customers’ lives more convenient and exciting through creating the best customers’ values by all employees. Furthermore, LG Display is proactively taking its social responsibilities even from local neighbors to global environment. LG Display believes in making better life for customers, partner companies, and stakeholders with LG Display. The goal of LG Display’s sustainable management is happiness of all of our stakeholders. Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Contents Sustainability Governance 02 CEO Message 04 Messages from Management 06 Company Overview 08 LG Display Product Overview 10 Corporate Governance 12 Jeong-Do Management 14 Risk Management 15 Compliance You Dream, We Display 16 17 Information Security Stakeholder Engagement 18 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Sustainability Management Scheme 20 Creating Shared Value based on Business model 22 Materiality Assessment 24 LGD Highlights Sustainability Issues Display the Better Future 28 01 Creating Innovative Value for the Future 33 02 Gaining Trust by Prioritizing Safety 38 03 Managing Environment for the Future Generation Dream with Our stakeholders 43 04 Building a Mutually Cooperative Culture 49 05 Growing Together through Strategic Social Contribution 54 06 Creating Employees-oriented Value with a Joyful Corporate Culture China CSR PERFORMANCES 62 Sustainabiility Overview 64 LGDCA 65 Guangzhou Plant 66 Nanjing Plant 67 Yantai Plant Appendices 68 CSR Quantitative Performances | Economical Performances | Environmental Performances | Social Performances 73 GRI Index 77 UNGC 78 Third Party Assurance Report 80 Awards, Recognition and Membership 81 Contributions to Report Preparation 1 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 CEO Message During the year of 2015, LG Display has remained our position as the advanced corporation in the global display industry through development of differentiated technologies and expansion of product portfolio in the aggressive competitiveness against Chinese and Taiwanese competitors and prolonged global economic recession. We also have secured our future growth drivers in automobile display market, lighting business and digital signage through investments in OLED sector, which is the display of the future generation. LG Display has lead creating economic values by developing eco-friendly products and continuous energy reduction activities as well as creating economic values. In addition, we have practiced responsible management, which considers not only for our employees but also for employees in partner companies, through managing thoroughly fundamental risk factors to realize safe workplaces. Together with these activities, we have promoted win-win cooperation activities for the sustainable growth of our partner companies, and strengthened CSR risk management in our supply chain, including proactive responding to conflict minerals. LG Display has promoted strategic social contribution activities that link to our businesses as a part of shared value creating activities for building mutually benefited society with our local communities. With the results of these efforts, LG Display has been listed in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index for three consecutive years. Even in the future LG Display will continue to pursue proactive communications with our stakeholders to develop the corporate sustainable development based on our management philosophies, value creation for the customers and human respect, and we will devote to be the more socially responsible company. Wish your continuous interests and supports to LG Display. Thank you very much. CEO and Vice Chairman of LG Display Sang-Beom Han 2 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Dear respected stakeholder, thank you deeply for your concord love and encouragement to LG Display. 3 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Messages from Management “We will lead the global display market by strengthening the competitiveness of OLED as a source of the future growth” Head of OLED Division / President Sang-Deok Yeo *DoT(Display of Things): Contrast The Era of DoT*(Display of Things) will open before us as displays become the main communicating channel to IoT (Internet Of Things), DoT represents display of any form between things and people in near future. Future industry with realistic visualization will not be restricted by available anywhere to eliminate the the form of displays such as flexible or circular display. LG Display believes and invests in OLED technology boundary between products in the as the most compatible resource for DoT era. LG Display will take a lead in the global display market with its industry. competitive production capability for extraordinary products such as plastic and transparent OLED products. “LG Display promises to show its relentless effort to make eco-friendly plants” CPO (Chief Production Officer) / Executive Vice President Cheol-Dong Jeong LG Display is practicing various efforts to regenerate itself as a sustainable corporate including strict safety management, innovative reduction of GHG emission, and water use reduction. LG Display has obtained international standard certifications in three categories of environment safety health to secure and further the safety of domestic workplace with its own safety culture. It is also taking a leading position in ecofriendly management through energy saving, reduction of GHG emission from manufacturing plants via factory gas reduction and substitution, and recycling system of waste water with to contribute to global drought. As a global leading corporate, LG Display will continue its sincere efforts to be a sustainable corporate that answers its stakeholders’ demands. “We promise to build sustainable corporate by taking its corporate social responsibilities based on cooperation of all employees and local community” General operation management of Chinese subsidiaries / Executive Vice President Yu-Seong In LG Display needs to contribute to the economy growth of local communities and taking its social responsibilities to become a sustainable corporate in China. Thus, LG Display provides safe and healthy working environment by implementing international safety & Health management system and protecting the employees’ rights by complying with local safety and labor regulations. It is also trying to create mutual value with the local communities through communication and social contribution activities from each plant. LG Display promises to build a sustainable corporate by taking its corporate responsibilities based on cooperation of all employees and local communities. 4 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices “LG Display will create mutual social values that can be shared with the stakeholders” Head of Management Support Group / Executive Vice President Bang-Soo Lee LG Display tries to create mutual social values shared with its stakeholders. This means to provide good products and service to customers and create added value for local communities and country with employees, partner companies, and stakeholders. In order to achieve this, LG Display is widely taking its social responsibilities for local and global communities by conforming to standard and regulations for managing the safety and health, the working environment, controlling the conflict minerals supply, and even response to climate change. We will continue our virtuous cycle of working with the best and maintaining the corporate reputation to achieve global level of sustainability. We will focus all of the company's competencies to make a more sustainable company through systematic strengthening of financial and non-financial risk management. CFO(Chief Financial Officer) / Senior Vice President Sang-Don Kim In order to operate a sound company, it is crucial to uphold our corporate social responsibilities to stakeholders and communities. LG Display has successfully managed financial risks, such as credit risk, interest rate risk , currency risk, and etc., and a variety of non-financial risks that are linked to various stakeholders. In particular, we regularly monitor and review fair trade operation of the Internal Transaction Committee. Also, we inspect the implementation of our risk management system in accordance with internal rules and government regulations through management audits and internal control reviews. We will continue to assert our responsibilities as a corporate citizen and become a more sustainable LG Display in order to be a world-class corporation. “We will continue to show different efforts to provide differentiated products and technology for customers” CTO (Chief Technology Officer) / Senior Vice President In-Byeong Kang LG Display, is introducing differentiated product and technology including UHD HDR OLED TV, Circular plastic OLED, AIT (Advanced In-cell Touch), M+ to regenerate as a sustainable managing corporate with its global competitiveness. Moreover, LG Display is focusing on making future-oriented OLED beyond the expectation and nurturing valuable R&D employees through various programs including LGenius, Technical Talk, Techno and Conference. Based on these efforts, LG Display will make the new life with you. “You Dream, We Display.” “We strive to be a well balanced corporate between leadership and followership.” Head of HR Group / Senior Vice President Seong-Min Kim There is human in the foundation of corporate. Thus, LG Display is trying to provide opportunities and joyful working environment to more employees as the HR’s focus. LG Display offers opportunities for college undergraduates to experience related field work and to apply for employment after graduating. Furthermore, LG Display is creating joyful working environments based on ‘Wellness, Family Friendly, Joyful Energy’ and operating IDP (Individual Development Program) to contribute to consistent self-development and open communication that will lead to competency raise. LG Display will continue its effort to be a well balanced corporate between leadership and followership by supporting our employees’ professionalism and passion. 5 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Company Profile Company Overview LG Display is a global display panel manufacturing company that was You Dream, established in 1987 by developing and producing TFT-LCD and related We Display. products. We are producing LCD and OLED panels in Gumi and Paju Plants in Korea, while China Guangzhou Plant is operating panel production lines, Plants in China and Poland are operating module production. We are also operating Vision You Dream, We Display overseas sales offices in order to expand local markets efficiently. As of the end of 2015 we have around 50,000 employees worldwide. Goal Global No.1 Display Company Strengthening Customer-oriented Marketing Capabilities, Vision Core Developing Market-leading Products and Technologies. Establishing the Most Competitive Production System, Building Competencies an Optimized Supply Chain, Maximizing Management Efficiency, LG Display's vision is ‘You Dream, We Display’. The word ‘You’ refers to all our Creating an Organizational Culture that Aims to be No.1 stakeholders, while ‘Display’ means LG Display’s commitment that realizes the Core Open communication, Proactive Collaboration, dreams of our stakeholders. LG Display will create a world that our stakeholders Values Change & Leap dream and talk through creative thinking and innovative technology. Ideal Talents for Passion, Professionalism, Teamwork Milestones LG Display This is the history of LD Display. 1985~1995 1997~2003 2004~2007 2008~Present Establishment Growth and Extreme Challenge Advancement Development 1985 • Established Goldstar Software Co., Ltd. 1997 • Changed corporate name to LG Soft Co., Ltd. 2004 • Staged ground-breaking ceremony for 2008 • Changed the corporate name to LG Display Co., Ltd. 1987 • Began TFT-LCD R&D at Goldstar R&D Center • Began mass production at P2 in Gumi, Korea Display Cluster and P7 in Paju, Korea 2009 • Began mass production at P8 in Paju, Korea 1990 • Established Anyang R&D Center 1998 • Changed the corporate name to LG LCD Co., Ltd • Became the first Korean company 2010 • Began mass production at AP2, LTPS 1993 • Launched LCD business division within 1999 • Launched LG.Philips LCD Co., Ltd., a joint venture concurrently listed on both the Korea production line, in Paju, Korea Goldstar with Royal Philips Electronics Exchange (KRX) and New York Stock • Began mass production of the world's first 1995 • Changed the corporate name to 2000 • Began mass production at P3 in Gumi, Korea Exchange (NYSE) FPR (Film-type Patterned Retarder) 3D display LG Software Co., Ltd. • Developed the world’s first 20.1-inch LCD • Began mass production at P6 in Gumi, Korea 2011 • Developed the world’s first 55-inch OLED TV panel • Began mass production of TFT-LCD at P1, panel for TVs 2005 • First time passed the sales milestone of 2012 • Staged ground-breaking ceremony for the 8.5th the first fabrication plant, in Gumi, Korea 2001 • Developed the world’s first 12.1-inch 10 million LCD TV panels Generation LCD panel plant in Guangzhou, China • First unveiled 9.5-inch LCD panel transflective LCD panel 2006 • Developed the world’s first and largest • Began mass production at P9, an LCD 2002 • Began mass production at P4 in Gumi, Korea 100-inch Full HD LCD panel fabrication plant, in Paju, Korea • Developed ‘transparent and flexible displays’ 2003 • Developed the world’s first 42 and 55-inch • Staged opening ceremony for Display LCD panel for HD TVs Cluster and P7 in Paju, Korea sponsored by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy • Began mass production of the world’s first 84• Began mass production at P5 in Gumi, Korea 2007 • Began mass production at assembly plant inch Ultra HD LCD panel for Interactive whiteboards • Began mass production at assembly plant in in Wroclaw, Poland Nanjing, China • Developed the world’s first 14.1-inch color 2013 • Began mass production of the world's first 55inch OLED TV panel flexible E-Paper • Developed the world’s narrowest 3.5mm bezel • Began mass production at assembly plant video walls in Guangzhou, China • Began mass production of the world's first 6-inch flexible OLED panel for mobile devices • Developed the world's first 105-inch curved Ultra HD TV LCD 2014 • Began mass production at AP3, an LTPS production line, in Gumi, Korea • Developed the world's first 18-inch flexible and transparent OLED panels • Developed the world’s narrowest 0.7mm bezel FHD LCD panel for smartphones • Began mass production at E4, an OLED production line, in Paju, Korea 2015 • Began mass production of 5.5-inch QHD LCD panel with AIT technology • Took over OLED lighting business from LG Chem • Investment in P10, the World Largest OLED Producing Plant 6 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Leading Global Markets Business Performance | The revenue in 2015 reached KRW 28.3839 trillion, Operating Profit Ratio by Product which is increased 7% YoY, from the differentiated product development, such as M+ UHD TV, IPS monitors, high resolution Mobile, etc. The operating profits reached KRW 1.6256 trillion, which is increased approximately 20% YoY, by increasing of high value-added product ratio based on our technology and product competitiveness. Mobile TV 28.0% 38.2% Market Share | According to the IHS in 2016, we achieved the world no. 1 for the five consecutive years with 23.4% of global display market shares based on Laptop (Tablet) large-sized LCD shipments. LG Display will continue to keep the global leader’s 17.7% position with our best production competitiveness in LCD, OLED, LTPS, etc. Monitor 16.0% Global Network Headquartered in Korea, LG Display operates a global network of 26 worksites composed of seven manufacturing bases, eight sales subsidiaries and 11 sales Revenue offices across the world. We practice customer satisfaction management by 2014 26,455 localizing manufacturing and distribution through our global network. 2015 28,383 China Nanjing, Guangzhou, CA, Yantai Shanghai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou Qingdao, Beijing Germany Ratingen Korea Gumi, Paju USA Poland San Jose Wroclaw Japan Austin, Houston, Los Angeles, Tokyo Washington D.C. Detroit, Turkey Osaka San Diego (SVC) Istanbul Taiwan Taipei Malaysia Penang Singapore Singapore Other LGD 26.0% Global Market Share 23.4% (Based on large size display panel in 2015, IHS, Quarterly Large-Area TFT Panel Shipment Company A Report, ’16 Q1) Company C 17.8% 15.3% Company B Manufacturing Base : 7 Regions Sales Subsidiary : 8 Regions 17.5% Sales Office : 11Regions 7 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 LG Display Products OLED LG Display’s OLED TV presents more vivid colors with precise color expression and perfect viewing angle by using differentiated WRGB 4 Color method, which does not require backlight. TV LCD LG Display’s UHD TV, which is based on M+ technology realizing brighter and excellent resolution and lowers power consumption, and Art Slim, the thinnest and lightest innovative product, provide differentiated values to our customers. Notebook Laptop Display Not only high resolution picture quality based on AH-IPS but also low power consumption is realized, in particular, with the innovative design of Bezel, we provide smart user environments, such as light weight as well as low power consumption, to customers. Commercial Commercial Display LG Display provides the most optimal technology for large displays that minimizes cut-off or distortion of images by realizing the world’s narrowest bezel that. The bigger size of display can be used for places where mega-sized displays are needed such as airports and control rooms. 8 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Transparent Display LG Display applied the differentiated high-transmittance technology to improve the performance of transparent displays. Transparent displays can show products to be advertised behind the screen and run the video on the screen at the same time to catch the attention of consumers and maximize the effect of advertisements. New Flexible Display Flexible Display offers differentiated design values, including 'Bendable, Foldable, Rollable' displays. And its 60% lighter compared to glass-based design provides portability and this display does not break easily even you drop it by accident. Mobile LG Mobile Display Mobile Display enables users to enjoy brighter high resolution pictures and more life-like blue-ray videos with LG Display’s AHDisplay IPS technology and UV alignment and Quad-HD picture quality based on N-type Liquid Crystal technology. Tablet Display By inserting touch sensor inside of panel, LGD’s original technology, no separate Bezel space is required. And with AIT technology that reduced thickness, thinner and lighter design and excellent touching feeling are provided to customers. Auto Auto Display LG Display provides the various information to drivers and passengers with AH-IPS featuring high resolution, high luminance and wide viewing angle which is the display standard smart car trend. 9 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Corporate Governance Structure of Board of Directors LG Display’s Board of Directors consists of seven members: two executive directors, one nonstanding director, and four outside directors. The BOD operates three committees: Audit Committee, Outside Director Nomination Committee, and Management Committee. BOD Members As of March 2016 Category Name Position Non-standing director Yu-Sik Kang BOD Chairman, Vice President of LG Economic Research Institute Executive director Sang-Beom Han Representative Director and CEO Executive director Sang-Don Kim CFO Outside director Jin Jang Professor, Department of Information Display, Kyung Hee University Outside director Joon Park Professor, School of Laws, Seoul National University Outside director Sung-Sik Hwang President of Samchully Co., Ltd. Outside director Guen-Tae Han CEO of Hans Consulting Activation of BOD BOD Operational Performance of 2015 The BOD is a main decision-making agent for the company’s important issues and performs check on major business issues of the company. During the year of 2015, the BOD had discussed total 36 items, including quarterly business performance reporting, appointment of the CEO, approval of POLED investment, and etc. LG Display will do our best to assist the BOD Number of agenda to be more active in order to reflect various stakeholders’ opinions in our business operation. Number of BOD discussed in BOD meetings convened meeting 8 36 Activities of BOD Sub-committees sessions items We have operated sub-committees based on each director’s expertise to expand the BOD’ s activities and to strengthen the BOD’s expertise. The Audit Committee assesses internal audit and conduct auditing the company’s accounting and businesses. The Outside Director Nomination Committee nominates outside directors who will be appointed at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. And the Management Committee, which is composed of executive directors, are entrusted to deal with normal business issues and financial issues under a certain size in order to assist the BOD to focus on the more important agendas and to review them efficiently. Formation of Sub-committees in BOD As of March, 2016 Category Composition Name Purpose of Committee Activities in 2015 Audit Three outside Joon Park Auditing the company’s accounting and 5 times Committee directors Jin Jang business and conducting evaluation of internal (Evaluation of operation Sung-Sik Hwang audit of internal accounting management system, assessment of operating status of internal audit system, etc.) Outside One non-standing Yu-Sik Kang Nominated outside director to appoint at the 1 time Director director Jin Jang General Shareholders’ Meeting (Agenda on outside Nomination Two outside Sung-Sik Hwang director nomination) Committee directors Management Two executive Sang-Beom Han Assist the management to perform business 2 times Committee directors Sang-Don Kim quickly and the BOD to focus on the more (Issue of non-warranty important agendas to assess them efficiently bond, and etc.) through entrusting the Management Committee with dealing with normal business issues and financial issues under a certain size 10 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Appointment Procedure of Outside Independence and Expertise of BOD Director LG Display has four outside directors, accounting for more than half of the total seven board Outside Director Candidate Nomination directors, in order to keep the independence of the BOD. Outside directors are nominated Committee by strict reviews of the Outside Director Nomination Committee and approved by the BOD Nomination of outside director candidates in accordance with relevant laws and regulations such as the Commercial Law. And then, appointed at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. Also, LG Display selects outside directors who have expertise and experiences in various fields in order to support effective and efficient BOD decision-making of the BOD as well as to ensure its high level of expertise. Introduction of candidates and confirmation Performance Assessment and Remuneration of BOD General Shareholders’ Meeting The assessment of the BOD and management is conducted by evaluation of KPI based on the reviews of LG Display’s mid-to-long-term business plans. According to the results of the Final appointment of outside directors evaluation, the remuneration of the directors is determined within the limit approved at the General Shareholders’ Meeting. * BOD remuneration limit: KRW 8.5 billion (Approved by the General Shareholders’ Meeting 2015) BOD Remuneration* As of December, 2015 Remuneration Paid Per Director and Calculation Criteria* As of March, 2016 Unit: KRW 1 million Unit: KRW 1 million Total Average Total No. of Calculation Category Remuneration Remuneration per Name Position Remuneration Directors Criteria Paid Director Paid Registered 3 2,611 870 Calculated according to the executive compensation director 1,177 regulations approved by the BOD Outside director 0 57 57 Sang-Beom Vice The bonus was calculated by considering continued Auditor 3 234 78 2,017 market leading position through continuous Han chairman differentiated technology and product launching, Total 6 2,902 840 contribution to profit improvement and strengthening of market position, and demonstrated leadership to * 1) Outside directors and the Audit Committee members are excluded in achieve the company’s management objectives. the registered executive directors 2) Outside directors are excluded the outside directors who are the * In accordance with the related law, the compensation for registered director, who receives more than KRW 500 members of the Audit Committee, and Mr. Kwon Dong-Il, an outside million, is disclosed. In 2015, the chief financial officer, Mr. Kim Sang-Don, received a total of KRW 594 million: director resigned during his tenure as of 25 September 2015 salary KRW 393 million and bonus 201 million. The bonus was provided for his achievements in making proactive 3) No remuneration for Mr. Kang Yoo-Shik, a registered director efforts to establish enterprise wise risk management system and performance management system, and in 4) Average remuneration per person is divided the total amount of consideration with his leadership in advancing core task process and infrastructure. remuneration by average number of the BOD members of annually accumulated number of BOD members in the year of 2015 Shareholders Status LG Display briefs our shareholders on the business status of the company at the annual General Shareholders’ Meeting, and discloses our quarterly, half-yearly, and annual business performances on our company homepage. By doing so, we will continue to reflect proactively the various expectations and needs of our shareholders by communicating with the shareholders through diverse channels. LG Electronics Minority Shareholders* 37.90% 44.39 % Share The Capital Group Korea National Companies, Inc. Ownership Pension Fund 5.09% 8.40% * Shareholders holding 1/100 or less of the total issued stocks ** For further information on share ownership, please refer to the ‘Report on the Filing of Changes in Ownership of Block Shares’ in the Korea Financial Supervisory Service's DART System (http://dart.fss.or.kr). 11 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Jeong-Do Management LG Way The LG Way is a guidance for all LG employees. At the same time, it is our unique belief and philosophy in attaining the vision of becoming ‘No. 1 LG’ through ‘Jeong-Do Management’ that is rooted in ‘Customer Value Creation’ and ‘People-oriented Management’. LG Way Vision Code of Conducts Management Philosophy Customer Value Creation No.1 LG No. 1 LG Jeong-Do Management People-oriented Management LG’s original code of conducts To become a leading that leads fair competition Objectives of business activities Jeong-Do Management company with LG Vision that through fostering continuously and principles of corporate acknowledged by the markets our own capacities based on operation ethical management Customer Value Creation People-oriented Management Trusted by customers Integrity Customer Value Creation • Customer respect • Deliver practical value • Creation through innovation Attractive to investors Fairness Admired by the best and the Fair Competition Based on People-oriented Management brightest people Competence • Creative freedom • Respect personalities of individuals • Capability development and Feared and emulated by maximizing individual’s capability competitors • Performance-based evaluation Jeong-Do Management Jeong-Do Management Operational System Operational System LG Display, as a corporate citizen, follows principles and standards to take responsibilities and duties for our society and practices Jeong-Do Management based on fair competition in accordance with unrivaled competence. Jeong-Do Management Jeong-Do Management Organization Fair Divisional Management Inspection Team 1 and 2 inspect business processes either regularly or Competition Integrity Fairness Based on frequently and performs consultation activities to practice Jeong-Do Management. The Ethics Competence Bureau investigates wrongful and fraud through reports or diagnosis and also carries out fraud prevention activities through Jeong-Do Management education and promotion. In addition, Transparent Fair trade Unrivaled management and equal competitiveness a Management Inspection Team in China provides localized education, promotion, process based on opportunity based on principles and in all business fairness and diagnosis, and report investigations to ensure Jeong-Do Management. standards relationships ceaseless Jeong-Do Management Organization Management CEO Inspection Team Divisional Divisional China Management Management Ethics Diagnosis Inspection Inspection Bureau Team Team 1 Team 2 12 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Jeong-Do Management Internalization Activity Jeong-Do Management Training Number of Jeong-Do unit: person Management Training LG Display performs active training for employees to internalize Jeong-Do Management. The Participants in 2015* Ethics Bureau as an initiative spearhead practiced online trainings for every office employees and off the job trainings for promoted employees, organization leaders, and overseas assignees in 2015. In addition, we provided trainings that were tailored to different departments such as 6,979 1,046 procurement, R&D, and manufacturing and also ensured practical internalization activities for 2015 8,025 Jeong-Do Management through training both supervisors and employees working in overseas 2,360 414 subsidiaries. 2014 2,774 Hosted by Ethics Bureau Pledge of Jeong-Do Management Practice Hosted by HRD Aiming to improve all employees’ awareness of Jeong-Do Management as to business * Conducted on domestic and overseas employees performance with customers, partner companies, and competitors, LG Display recommends all employees and the heads of partner companies to sign the ‘Pledge of Jeong-Do Management Practice’. The pledge includes clauses stipulate that members are to follow LG Display’s code of ethics and are required to practice Jeong-Do Management. Jeong-Do Management Survey LG Display conducts an annual survey on all employees to examine their practice of Jeong-Do Management and their awareness of Jeong-Do Management and also to bring about further improvements in deficient areas. We had conducted the survey for three weeks in June 2015 on domestic and overseas employees* and determined that the level of awareness of Jeong-Do Management has improved. * Domestic office workers, technicians and overseas FSE, ISE, only including office workers Jeong-Do Management Cyber Whistleblower System In order to effectively practice Jeong-Do Management by preventing the violation of a code of ethics and eradicating corruptions, LG Display operates ‘JeongDo Management Cyber Sinmungo,’ our online anonymous whistleblower system. The identity or content of a whistleblower is protected by our safe security system, and the company clearly states that it takes measures for the whistleblowers not to have any disadvantage. In addition, it created the ‘lgdsinmungo’ account on Kakaotalk for all employees to more easily report fraudulent acts. At the same time, in order to activate reports of the fraudulent acts, we reward whistleblowers Kakaotalk LGD Sinmungo account and therefore contribute to eradication of corruptions. Promoting Jeong-Do Management LG Display consistently carries out public relations work which includes publishing corporate publications such as the company magazine and blog newsletter for staff members to recognize that the practice of Jeong-Do Management is not optional but compulsory and staff can participate in a wide array of promotional quizzes and events designed to raise awareness. Especially, the company has distributed the Jeong-Do Management newsletter published in Chinese since 2015 so that it can share the value of Jeong-Do Management and improve all local employees’ ethics. Moreover, we developed a Jeong-Do Management application for all members so they can easily reference LG’s code of ethics and a practical manual of LG’s code of ethics. Jeong-Do Management Newsletter 13 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Risk Management Strengthening of Integrated Risk Management System LG Display has initiated a corporate-wide effort to detect internal and external risks and taking prompt action on them. Particularly, we established an integrated risk management system through risk analysis by reclassifying existing risk categories and selecting core risks based on risk factors and magnitude. Risk Management Process • Identifying risk factors, such as uncertainty, • Establishing prompt recovery strategies after opportunity loss, casualty, and business emergency response suspension • Obtaining business continuity after occurrence • Identifying risk factors considering priority of emergency situation Identifying risk factors Post-restoration Prevention activities Emergency response • Improving emergency response capabilities • Defining list of emergency response actions through usual prevention practices allowing immediate response • Improving emergency response capabilities • Establishing practical onsite emergency through simulation drills and trainings response system • Disproportion of • Fail of alliance Risk Classification manpower structure between different LG Display manages risk categories by classifying them into either a rapid spread or slow spread • Labor-management industries of business risk, and the rapid spread refers to the risks occurring in the aspects of safety, environment and dispute • M/S decline • Lost of core talents • Policy changes in health and supply network management and we take prompt action on its occurrence. The slow • IT system shutdown China spread is the risk taken place in operational/macro environment and strategic respects, and we • Cannibalization have practiced regular monitoring perceiving the risk before it occurs. • Reduction of order • Fluctuation in Risk Management Manual exchange rate LG Display will develop a risk management manual based on scenarios reclassifying 14 core Macro Operation environment risks into seven risk domains so as to attune to a risk development process. and strategy 7 Risk Response Domains Slow Spread Risk 14 Core Risks 7 Risk Response Domains Rapid Spread Risk 1. Discontinuance of utility supply (electricity) 1. Production operation shut-down 2. Logistical disturbance Safety, Supply Chain 3. Confidential information leak environment Management 2. Information security and health (SCM) 4. Personal information leak 5. Shut-down of information system • Fire/Explosion • Logistical 3. Information system failure • Gas/Chemical leak disturbance 6. Hacking/virus • Epidemic • Parts supply 7. Large scale life accident • Casualty shutdown • Utility supply 8. Industrial accident 4. Human disaster shutdown 9. Contagious disease 10. Gas/Chemical leak in factory 5. Environment and health 11. Environmental pollution 12. Fire/Explosion 6. Production facilities accident 13. Internal conflict (strikes/sabotage/walkout) 7. Conflict 14. External conflict (mass claims) 14 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Compliance Compliance Management Activities LG Display has operated a compliance management plan designed to improve compliance. The company manages compliance risks by identifying major risk categories such as Fair trade, human resources, intellectual property rights, environment, and safety assigning classifications through evaluating risk factors and significance, and by creating action plans. In addition, we perform systematic compliance management activities with thorough follow-up actions through continuous monitoring. Compliance Officer System LG Display operates a compliance control system aimed at devising a compliance control Compliance Risks Management System standard and appointing a compliance officer. We already completed forging the estimation and management of legal risks, restrictions on infringements, and an education system according to the compliance control standard, and therefore we also have performed compliance control Risk Risk activities. Furthermore, the company reports the evaluation results of compliance support Identification Assessment system and validity of the monitoring system to the board of directors so that we can 1 2 effectively manage the compliance control system. Compliance Risk Management 4 3 Establishing Employees' Awareness on Compliance Mitigation Monitoring Planning Compliance Training LG Display implements a variety of compliance training programs in order to establish its employees’ awareness on compliance. In 2015, we offered compliance training programs regarding our philosophy, system, and related activities to 454 entry level office staff and 63 1 Risk Identification Identify risks and categories that have experienced employees who were newly hired. In addition, we shared local regulations and possibilities of violating regulations in critical compliance issues with managers in overseas subsidiaries. And we provided training on business process the Fair Subcontract Transactions Act to departments directly working with partner companies 2 Risk Assessment in order to prevent any potential dispute between the company and partner companies. LG Classify identified risks by assessing their Display will continue our efforts to improve employees' awareness on compliance through probability and impact systematic and targeted compliance trainings. 3 Mitigation Planning Establish a response plan and mitigation Compliance Newsletters action plan to reduce risks Our monthly newsletters cover a range of domestic and overseas compliance issues and 4 Monitoring enactment or revision of major regulations. LG Display shares the newsletters with domestic Implement a mitigation action plan employees and expats in overseas. Contents in the newsletters include definition of compliance and continuous monitoring issues, regulation trends of major supervisory bodies, work process complying with 15 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Information Security Security-first Culture LG Display ensures secure management of various information that, if misused, can have Management direct impact on the company’s core national technologies, confidential business information, and client information. LG Display complies with the information security-related laws and regulations, which include the Industrial Technology Drain Prevention Act and the Personal Information Protection Act. In order to prevent information leaks, we also annually offer information trainings for all employees and require them to sign the pledge of information security management practice. In addition, we provide annual security training to all employees and mandate them to sign on pledge on prevention of information leaks. Also we strive to lead security culture in what employees participate voluntarily and for that we are currently award CEO prizes to employees and departments with highly contributed to information security through reporting and suggestion. Scope of Information Security Management Article 9 of the Act on Prevention of Divulgence and Protection of Industrial Technology 1. Compliance with Laws 2. CEO award National 3. Technologies for the design, processing, and production of AMOLED panels Core Technology 4. Images of pilot products 5. Products 6. Personal identifiers, general information, credit information, sensitive information, and visual information Article 2 of the Unfair Competition Prevention and Trade Secret Protection Act Confidential Business Any information that is not publicly known and has independent economic value, such as technical or Information business information on production, sales, and other promotional activities, whose confidentiality has been maintained with considerable efforts Corporate Client Product-related information protected by the NDA, including specifications, pilot products, images, Information prices, and production information Partner Company Technologies shared by partners and information on their businesses Information Shared Growth Program for Personally identifiable information as specified by the Personal Information Protection Act, such Security Capacity Personal Information as personal identifiers, general information, credit information, sensitive information, and visual information SMEs · Security staff and organization setup Strengthening Technological Controls against IT System Infringement · Minimum infrastructure investment To be prepared against hacking to the company's system information leaks or system · IT security solution investment infiltration attempts, LG Display is conducting 24/7 real-time security controls, and managing information security risk factors identified through security vulnerability assessment. In addition, Government LG Display has isolated our business network from the internet network to safeguard critical · Solution infrastructure support from information assets. Various security activities are performed by utilizing big data so as to cope SME Technology Security Center with new threat from technology developments and changing business environment. · Financial support for implementation of security infrastructure Privacy Protection LG Display We operate privacy protection system at the enterprise level and conduct assessments on · Sharing of infrastructure and personal information security and regular inspections on vulnerabilities in order to preemptively knowhow respond to privacy risks. In addition, we have provided improvement guidelines to our supplier, · Security consulting services · Education and promotional support which is in charge of managing LG Display’s privacy information, after onsite inspection. We are also performing thorough preventive activities to comply with privacy protection law by adopting Personal Information Protection Solutions to avoid private information handling employees to hold unnecessary private information. Shared Growth Program for Security Capability of Partner Companies In 2014, LG Display was commended from the Minister of Trade, Industry & Energy for offering a workshop on consultation of 20 domestic partner companies and promoting the growth of 100 corporate security staff. In 2015, we performed a shared growth program for upgrading security capacity against LG Group’s suppliers in Korea and Nanjing, China. We will provide our Security Capacity Training for Partner Companies security programs to more suppliers in overseas production sites. 16 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Communication Channels and Expectations We define our stakeholders into five groups for our sustainability management: shareholders and investors, clients, employees, partner companies, and local communities. Through various tailored communication channels that are established, we consistently communicate with stakeholders identifying major issues related to sustainability, and fully reflect them in our management. We will have a great effort to be developed into a sustainable corporation by means of listening to the voice of each stakeholder. Communication Contacts Plan Channels • IR presentations • IR Team Through regular public announcement • Disclosure • PR Team and investors meetings, we will of• Shareholder meetings • Promotion Team fer information for LG Display’s CSR • IR Meeting • Business Support and • Roadshows at home Planning Team activities from which we will produce and abroad • Domestic Legal Affairs improvement plans. Team Shareholders and Investors • CSR website • CSR Team Through local communication chan• Company Love Center • Joyful Workplace nels such as Company Love Center at at the Gumi Plant Team the Gumi Plant and Paju Village Fore• Paju Village Foremen • Regional Councils Council men Council, we will take the lead in producing shared values for mutual growth actively gathering local opinLocal ions. Communities • Top Management • Business Unit Sales Team We will collect valuable customers’ Meeting • Overseas Standards Team opinions through various channels, • CS surveys • Quality Planning Team and maximize customer satisfaction. • Sales activities by • Technology Planning business units Team • CS service Center • Development Planning Team Customers • Partner Company • Ethics Bureau We will actively listen to the voices Meetings • Procurement Planning of partner companies through build• Online Whistleblower Team ing up online/offline communication System • CSR Team • Mutual growth board • Win-Win Cooperation channels from which we also create • e-VOS (Voice of Supplier) Team a future for mutual growth leading • Mutual growth Magazine • Public Affairs Team partners CRS management and capacity building. Partners • Fresh Board • Labor Relations Team We will accept all employees’ difficul• Labor-management • Joyful Workplace Team ties and opinions and improve their Council • PR Team values based on managing a wide • Publication (GOO:D) • Safety and Health • Newsletter Management Team range of organizational and positional • Online Grievance committees and building online comCommittee munication channels. • Industrial Health & Safety Employees Committee 17 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 CSR Management CSR Promotion System LG Display has promoted CSR internalization, CSR related risk management, stakeholder communication, and strategic social contribution under our mission ‘Contribute to sustainable growth and secure competitiveness of the company through through systematic CSR activities’. Through reflecting CSR perspectives across to our business activities, we will do our economic, environmental and social responsibilities as a global corporation and pursue sustainable growth for our company and local communities. Global No.1 Goal Sustainable Display Company Management of Communication with Strategic Social Strategies CSR Internalization CSR-related Risks Stakeholders Contribution · Operating regular channels · Strengthening response · Developing and operating such as publication of to clients’ CSR requests flagship programs related to Core · Operating the CSR sustainability report and and regulations each business Committee advisory meeting Strategic · Building partner · Operating employees · Conducting CSR training · Reflecting various local and Tasks companies’ CSR risk inclusive social contribution segmental stakeholders’ · Raising CSR awareness management system programs feedbacks into the business (publishing newsletter) · Checking and improving · Developing global social · Responding to external CSR CSR risks at worksites contribution activities evaluations CSR Internalization In 2015, the CSR Committee has shared CSR direction and core promotional tasks at the group and enterprise-wide level, and discussed the CSR self-assessment, improvement of CSR level, and other issues for domestic and oversea worksites. The Committee has supported sustainability related decision making, including reflecting the discussion results to overall business management by reporting the results to the management. Also, in order to responding proactively to increasing CSR requirements to the China subsidiaries, CSR network in each subsidiary was established and they have been cooperating with the LG Display headquarters. Management CEO, BOD Stakeholder Advisory CSR Committee Meeting Head of the Management Support Group 7 Division CSR Team Fair Shared Business Labor & Human Safety and Environmental Social Overall Management Trade Growth Ethics Rights Health Management Contribution of China Operation CA, GZ, NJ, YT In addition, CSR and social contribution related training have been provided to promoted employees and new comers to enhance their CSR understanding. And through CSR newsletter, major CSR and social contribution activities are shared internally. 18 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices CSR Risk Management Key clients of LG Display, as the EICC members, comply with the EICC Code of Conducts (CoC) and social responsibility implementations under the categories of labor · ethics · environment · safety · management system, which are required to global electronics companies to comply with by the EICC. Accordingly, LG Display has been performed preemptive CSR risk management activities by adopting and abiding by the EICC CoC with our key partner companies. Prohibition of child labor and discrimination and humane treatment related to respect of human rights in the labor area are particularly inspected and managed. * EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) is a coalition dedicated to electronics supply chain responsibility. Risk Assessment Process EICC SelfExecute the self-survey for all worksites at home and abroad to assessment analyze anticipated risk by worksite Onsite Conduct onsite inspection based on the EICC Audit Operation Manual to all Assessment worksites in China with an audit group composed of sectoral experts Improvement After developing improvement to be tracked on a monthly basis, Tracking relevant teams execute an improvement plan Risk Assessment Results Labor and Safety Environment Ethics Management Human rights System Assessment • Prohibition on consecutive • Keeping emergency • Requiring separate • Requiring privacy • Requiring partner work days (more than exits clear at all times handling of hazardous protection companies to comply results seven days) • Continuous managing waste discharge for disciplined with the EICC Code • Excessive work time annual emergency employees of Conducts (CoC) (60hr/week) evacuation drills • Prohibition on night work by minors under 18 years’ old • Probation period not exceeding six months Corrective • Managing weekly basis • Regular inspection of • Installation of separate • Privacy protection • Collecting working hours opening conditions of discharge waste (non-disclosed agreements of the action emergency doors bins and training on management) EICC CoC compliance • Executing emergency drill separate discharge Stakeholder Communication LG Display has reflected stakeholders’ demands collecting through a variety of communication channels into our business activities. We have extended the scope of sustainability reporting, which is published every year, in China and Poland subsidiaries. By responding proactively to questions and demands from our clients, domestic and overseas CSR evaluation organization, NGOs and etc., we identify our stakeholders’ expectations and take their demands as the opportunity for improving our sustainable management. Sustainability Award Results LG Display has been listed in the DJSI Asia Pacific Index for three consecutive years based on DJSI’s evaluation on a company’s economic, environmental, and social accomplishments. In addition, the company was also listed in ‘Industry Mover’ Index, which is awarded to a company within the top 15% of each industry in DJSI for the largest score increase compared to the previous year. Moreover, LG Display was selected as one of ‘The Most Loved Korean Companies’ for the third year of the award in 2015 for contributing to improvement of partners’ sustainability. LG Display will continue to do our best to practice sustainability at the world leading level. 19 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Creation of CSV Values on the LG Display’s Business Model INPUT Category 2014 2015 Change Creating R&D Expenses KRW 1.7876 trillion KRW 1.5468 trillion ▼ Innovative R&D-to-Sales Ratio 6.8% 5.4% ▼ Value for the Government-sponsored R&D Future KRW 16.32 billion KRW 14.88 billion ▼ project expenses No. of safety self-assessment Gaining Improved and corrected 1,156 cases conduction Trust by Enterprise wise safety Prioritizing Improved and corrected 1,705 cases inspection Safety Safety Experience Center Gumi 23,636 hrs / Paju 25,928 hrs training hours Gumi 14,176 hrs / Paju doesn’t operate Safety Schools training hours regular training Managing Use of Raw Materials Environment Backlight 291,321,000 260,566,000 ▼ for the Glass 94,619,379 m² 96,500,167 m² ▲ Future polarizer 690,204,000 673,125,000 ▼ Generation* Drive IC 1,324,140,000 1,168,746,000 ▼ Liquid Crystal 129,138 kg 130,093 kg ▲ Energy consumption 66,463 TJ 67,257 TJ ▲ (incl. overseas worksites) Energy intensity 7.9 TJ/1000 glasses 7.8 TJ/1000 glasses ▼ (incl. overseas worksites) Water usage 77,860,413 ton 76,978,322 ton ▼ YOU DREAM, WE DISPLAY Building a Financial support KRW 12.99 billion KRW 13.15 billion ▲ Mutually Technology sharing performances 257 cases 5,022 cases ▲ Cooperative (LG IP Sharing Platform) Culture 61 companies 67 companies Green SCM consulting ▼ (accumulated) (accumulated) Conflict minerals education and management system Conflict minerals management inspection against 1st~3rd tier suppliers Growing Social contribution investments KRW 14.2 billion KRW 16.3 billion ▲ Together through Social contribution participation 46% 48% ▲ Strategic Social rate (Except double counting) Contribution Creating EmployeesSalary KRW 2.9246 trillion KRW 3.1040 trillion ▲ oriented Value Employee benefits KRW 68.8 billion KRW 88.2 billion ▲ with a Joyful Training hours per person 49.8 hours 51.9 hours ▲ Corporate Culture * Some environmental data including energy usage, GHG emissions and waste discharges include overseas worksites 20 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices OUTPUT Category 2014 2015 Change Accumulated no. of patent of LGD 26,518 cases 28,811cases ▲ Sales KRW 26.4555 trillion KRW 28.3838 trillion ▲ Operating profits KRW 1.3573 trillion KRW 1.6256 trillion ▲ Creating LCD global market share 23.7% 23.4% ▲ Innovative Value Dividends KRW 17.89 trillion KRW 17.89 trillion for the Future Industrial incident rate 0.006 0.009 ▲ Maintained the Level PSM Assessment P Level (Gumi, Paju) (Gumi, Paju) Symbiosis Safety Program Maintained the Level (Gumi, Paju) Re-certified (Gumi, Paju) Gaining Trust by Prioritizing OHSAS 18001 Maintained the Level (Gumi, Paju) Re-certified (Gumi, Paju) Safety Maintained the Level (Gumi), KOSHA 18001 New certification (Gumi) Newly certified (Paju) Maintained the Level(Gumi), Re-certified(Gumi), Safety Zone Certificate ▲ DISPLAY Newly certified (Paju) Newly certified(Paju) THE BETTER No. of panel production 8,425,000 glasses 8,609,000 glasses ▲ (incl. overseas worksites) FUTURE GHG emissions (incl. overseas worksites) 8,096,156 tCO2eq 8,023,727 tCO2eq ▼ Managing Amounts of GHG reduction 376,913 tCO2eq 431,795 tCO2eq ▲ Environment Discharge of water pollutants for the Future 47 ton/d 42 ton/d ▼ (BOD, COD, SS) Generation* Water reuse rate 130% 137% ▲ Emissions of air pollutants 158,167 kg 125,786kg ▼ (NOx, SOx, Dust) Amounts of waste recycling 87% 88% ▲ rate (incl. Chinese plants) DREAM WITH OUR Benefit Sharing System 22 cases 19 cases ▼ Industrial Innovation Movement 16 cases 33 cases ▲ STAKEHOLDERS Building a Mutually GHG reductions from suppliers 937t 986t Cooperative Culture CFS+Active smelters 76% 100% ▲ IT Power Plant, the representative 34 plants 40 plants ▲ social contribution program (accumulated) (accumulated) Growing Together through Strategic No. of volunteering activities 2,862 cases 2,618 cases ▼ Social Contribution New employment 376 persons 976 persons ▲ Turnover rate 4.8% 3.5% ▼ Creating Employeesoriented Value with No. of complaints resolved 30 cases 73 cases ▲ a Joyful Corporate Culture 21 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Materiality Assessment Outline of Materiality Assessment LG Display prepared this report in accordance with the four reporting principles of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), one of the international standard guidelines for sustainability report: sustainability context, materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, and completeness. Therefore, we conducted international sustainability standards analysis, benchmarking advanced companies, media research, and stakeholders’ research. After that we identified material sustainability issues Materiality that are related to the company. We assessed materiality of these issues according to the GRI G4 Guidelines, and we selected final reporting issues through prioritizing process of the issues. Assessment Process Developing the Issue Assessing Material Step1 Pool Step2 Issues Analyzing global initiatives including GRI G4 We evaluated material issues based on social and ISO 26000 concern and business impact through the reviews by We created an issue pool through analysis of global sussustainability experts and our management. tainability initiatives, including GRI G4, DJSI, and IS0 26000. Social Concern Benchmarking Global Leading Companies Impact of each sustainability issue affect to external Important industrial issues were identified by benchmarking stakeholders’ activities and decision making and the sustainability reports produced by domestic and overseas stakeholders’ interest on that issue advanced companies. Business Impact Media Research IPrioritizing sustainability issues based on CSR strategy, We listed up economic, social and environmental issues by media analysis, and industrial issues in order to identify analyzing 14,873 articles related to LG Display that are connectivity between business strategy and CSR issues, reported in media during 2015. and impacts to the company Stakeholder Survey We conducted online survey against LG Display’s internal and external stakeholders. Stakeholder Survey LG Display conducted stakeholders’ survey in order to reflect proactively their opinions, which impact significantly to LG Display’s business, in our business and to resolve any core sustainability issues. Through the survey, we identified LG Display’s CSR performance from internal and external perspectives and priority issues for sustainable management. Internal / External Responding Status Survey Contents Respondents Category Diagnosis of LGD’s CSR level (No. of Person) (survey employees’ CSR awareness level) Total 3,290 Employees 3,240 Internal Shareholders and investors 8 Identifying sustainability related priority issues from internal and external stakeholders Clients 1 (economy, environment, social, employees) Governments and relevant 2 organizations External Partner companies 26 Academic, research Suggestions for LGD’s sustainability 8 institutions, media, NGO Others 5 22 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Selecting Core Issues Step3 (Materiality Assessment Matrix) Impact 1 Core issues Materiality evaluation matrix was set by materiality aspect that 2 is based on combination of social concerns of stakeholders and 3 business impact regarding sustainability topic. 20 5 4 22 9 10 6 Core Issues 23 7 Creating economic performances through technological innovation, business 8 1 11 competitiveness, and etc. Reporting 24 25 2 Efforts to spread a culture of occupational health and safety 14 Issues 21 16 12 3 Building a Joyful Workplace 13 4 Responding to climate change through managing and minimizing GHG emissions 16 17 5 Strengthening shared growth activities for partner companies 26 18 Strategic social contribution activities (linking to business strategies and considering 19 6 characteristics of local communities) Potential 7 Strengthening control of hazardous chemical substances discharges at worksites Issues (Monitoring) Evaluating sustainability of supply chain and strengthening risks (enforcing conflict 8 mineral management) Relevance 9 Conducting education program to strengthen employees’ capacity 10 Developing eco-friendly products including high-efficient energy products Result of Materiality Assessment We have selected a total of ten core issues based on social concern and business impact, and have reported these issues in detail. Reporting boundaries No. Aspects Core Issues Reporting chapters Internal External Creating economic performances through technological 1 Economic performance ● ● Display the Better Future #1 innovation, business competitiveness, etc. 2 Occupational health and safety Efforts to spread a culture of occupational health and safety ● ● Display the Better Future #2 3 Employment Building a Joyful Workplace ● Dream with Our Stakeholders #6 Responding to climate change through managing and 4 Emissions ● ● Display the Better Future #3 minimizing GHG emissions 5 Procurement Strengthening shared growth activities for partner companies ● Dream with Our Stakeholders #4 Strategic social contribution activities (linking to business 6 Local communities ● Dream with Our Stakeholders #5 strategies and considering characteristics of local communities) Strengthening control of hazardous chemical substances 7 Effluents and waste discharges ● ● Display the Better Future #3 discharges at worksites Evaluating sustainability of supply chain and strengthening Supplier Assessment for social 8 supplier risk assessments (enforcing conflict mineral ● Dream with Our Stakeholders #4 and environmental practices management) Conducting education program to strengthen employees’ 9 Training and education ● Dream with Our Stakeholders #6 capacity Developing eco-friendly products including high-efficient energy 10 Products and services ● Display the Better Future #1 products 23 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 2015 LGD Highlights According to the performance announcement of the 4th quarter in 2015, LG Display has achieved more than KRW 1 trillion operating Achievement of profit for three consecutive years. Even with the global rescission KRW 1 trillion of and substantial growth of Chinese panel supply, LG Display has showed successful performance by expanding with differentiated Operating Profit for products such as UHD TV, AIT, and IPS panels. LG Display will Three Consecutive continue to create successful management performance and Years differentiated technologies to lead the market in 2016. According to HIS, a market research institute, the market size of the UHD resolution TV LCD panels in the 4th quarter of 2015 is equivalent to 11,258,000 units. LG Display has taken the Achievement of largest market share, 35%, with releasing 3,988,000 units during the same period. This performance was achieved by responding No.1 Market Share quickly to the customers’ demands for various UHD panels, in the UHD TV including 43-inch, 49-inch, and 84-inch with M+ technology. Panel Market LG Display has been participating in different activities to strengthen its competitiveness under a philosophy of ‘The partners’ competitiveness is LG Display’s competitiveness’. It had put in relentless efforts to be the No. 1 market leading partner The Best Corporate through various supporting programs, including financial support, with Win-Win technology and training programs, and strengthening management Growth Index competency. Based on its efforts, LG Display has been awarded as the best corporate in the Win-Win Growth Index evaluation held by the Korea Commissions for Corporate Partnership in 2014. At the 51 st Trade Day Award, the vice chairman Sang-Boem Han has received the Golden Tower Medal. His 33 year-long efforts and contribution for growing the semi-conductor and display industries to the global level have been recognized. His contribution also played an important part in localization of LCD The Trade Day production and changing the 3D industry by taking a lead of Award, FPR (Film Type Patterned Retarder) 3D business. Mr. Han has ‘Golden Tower mentioned that he will continue to contribute to “maintaining the reputation of Korea as the market leader in the display industry”. Medal’ Achieved 24 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices LG Display has been awarded with the ‘Happiness Sharing Company of 2015’ award by the minister of Health and Welfare last August. 2015 ‘Happiness This recognition was based on its previous efforts to take social Sharing Company’ responsibilities through various social contribution programs for Award from the the neglected local community groups by Paju Plant since 2006. LG Display always reminds itself about the mutual growth with the Minister of Health local communities and will continue its effort to share its growth and Welfare the local communities. Last November, LG Display has been awarded with the president of Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) Award under private enterprise category sponsored by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy and the Small and Medium Business Awarded the 3rd Administration. LG Display has been awarded for its great Loved Corporate contribution to the partners’ sustainability growth through various of Korea Award by programs including Green Consulting to respond to the climate the Government changes and reduction and regulation of the GHG emissions. We will continue to growth with society and recognized by the members of the society. In December of 2015, LG Display has been awarded with the Prime Minister’s Award at the 2015 Korea Technology Award sponsored by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. Through this award, 2015 Korea LG Display shared its untraditional idea of ultra thin, ultra light Technology Award, plastic OLED designs and process technologies and took an official Prime Minister’s recognition of contributing to industry technology during 2015. Award LG Display has signed a MOU for ‘Demonstration Project on the Management of Resource Circulation” with Korea Environment Corporation and Ministry of Environment and proactively respond Signing of an MOU to recycling display industrial wastes. Through this MOU, Paju Plant for ‘Demonstration has set up a recourse circulation goal until 2016 and practice by Project on the the detailed operating plan. Moreover, Paju Plant recycles more Management than 90% of the wastes and has received two ‘Prime Minister’s award for Resource circulating corporate’ and continues to show of Resource its effort for environment protection. Circulation” 25 Sustainability Governance ▶ Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Sustainability Issues Display the Better Future 01 02 03 Creating Innovation Gaining Trust by Managing the Environment Value for the Future Prioritizing Safety for the Future Generation 026 Dream With Our Stakeholders 04 05 06 Growing Together with Crafting Building a Mutually Communities through Employee-oriented Values Cooperative Culture Strategic Social with a Joyful Corporate Contribution Culture 027 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 2015 Key Performances R&D Ratio against Sales (%) 01 6.2 6.8 5.4 Display the Better Future 2013 2014 2015 [ 1.4% decrease compared to 2014 ] Creating Innovative Value for the Future Industry Status of LGD The worldwide display industry is witnessing pricing pressures as the global economy slows down and the number of Chinese suppliers increase. Therefore, domestic and international companies are steadily investing in creating innovative values and building intellectual assets. LG Display also recognizes these changes in the market and tries to secure market dominance by diversifying products via innovative technologies, such as flexible and transparent display. LGD's Approach · O rganization of the CTO-oriented organization to strengthen R&D competitiveness · Strengthening global patent competitiveness · Securing drivers for future growth by developing new technologies, including flexible OLED and transparent OLED · Diversification of R&D portfolio LGD's Efforts In 2015, LG Display has built a competitive edge by developing differentiated products, such as mobile LCD using AIT (Advanced In-cell Touch) technology, UHD HDR OLED TV, Wall Paper OLED, and large-sized OLED. In addition, we also continue to develop energy-saving, low-heat dissipating, and eco-friendly OLED lights. Plan for the better LGD LG Display will continue R&D activities continuosly to secure OLED future applied technology competitiveness. We also plan to gain greater market control with differentiated technologies for commercial and automobile displays. 28 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Strengthening R&D System Strengthening Strategy for R&D Management of R&D Performances Competitiveness LG Display has strengthened competitiveness in R&D management LG Display R&D is focused on reality, ambience, and intelligence and development of industry-leading technologies, including IPS to identify needs of customers and develop technologies that based LCD, large-sized OLED, and AIT. deliver innovative values. The CTO-assigned research laboratories, and respective business units conduct research on fundamental List of the World’s Leading LGD Technologies technology, future technology of LCD and OLED, and next· Development of 55-inch curved OLED TV panel generation display products. Additionally, business units in Paju · Development of 5.5-inch QHD LCD for smart phones and Gumi have also formed separate departments to drive the 2013 · Production of 6-inch flexible OLED smart phone panel · Development of 105-inch curved LCD for UHD TVs development of TV, IT, mobile, and OLED products. R&D Organization · Development of UHD M+ LCD for 42/49/55-inch TVs · L TPS AH-IPS UV Alignment for smart phones and development of N-type LCD CTO Business 2014 · Development of 18-inch transparent OLED and flexible Units OLED · Development and mass production of 1.3-inch circular plastic OLED panel Research Business Develop· Development of 55-inch Wall Paper OLED Lab Units ment · Development of 55-inch double sided OLED 2015 · Development of 139-inch S-shape tile style double sided · Basic and fundamental · Advanced technologies · TV technologies OLED technology -Future OLED of LCD · IT/mobile technologies technology · Advanced technologies · OLED technologies · Next-generation display of OLED Technology Seminar of Chinese Patent Office Patent Management In October 2015, LG Display hosted a major technology seminar LG Display believes in the importance of strengthening and at Guangdong Evaluation Center with the support of the Chinese protecting advanced technologies, as well as developing patent office to strengthen engagements in patent application, differentiated technologies to lead future markets. Thus, we have licensing, and protection of mobile technologies, such as AIT successfully protected our intellectual properties by registering (Advanced In-Cell Touch). LG Display has bolstered patent 13,909 domestic and 14,902 overseas patents as of 2015. competitiveness through 1,900 patent applications in China, which Patents held by LG Display unit: case exceeds 30% of active overseas patent applications in the past five years. Domestic 11,779 Overseas 12,040 2013 23,819 Domestic 13,164 Overseas 13,354 2014 26,518 Domestic 13,909 Overseas 14,902 2015 28,811 Photo of Technology Seminar of the Chinese Patent Office Interview LG Display has successfully maintained its competitiveness in LCD products and large-sized OLED products against the aggressive investments and massive production scale of Chinese competitors. LG Display is also putting in great efforts to sustain its growing power and acquire future products by consistent development of new technologies in research and development. For the future, LG Display needs to dominate its market by developing new products blending with Internet of Things to create higher value added business as the era of aged society and super connected society* As the market gets oriented towards new customer demands, development of new products is required to respond to customer needs that are measured by various demand researches. It is now important for LG Display to gather the best candidates who can combine social science with technologies to develop suitable products that satisfy multicultural backgrounds and demands of customers, to satisfy foreign markets and break out of its traditional production focused paradigm. * Super connected society: A society that shares information by internet that everything connected closely including human, things, animals, data and process through mobile devices, such as smart phone and wearable super small size computers Professor Shin Doo Lee | Electronic Information Engineering Department, Seoul National University 29 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Developing New Technologies Ahead of the Market Product Innovation for Leading Market LG Display has provided differentiated values to customers with various technologies and products such as IPS, AIT, and OLED as a leading display player. We lead the LCD market by developing differentiated products of IPS based Slim & Light UHD TV, large sized 21:9 Curved monitor, and by constructing AIT based product manufacturing system. As the world’s first company to offer a 55-inch OLED TV in 2013, we have demonstrated our leading technologies by continuously developing products such as UHD OLED TV, plastic OLED smartphones, and wearable circular OLED panels. 55-inch Wallpaper OLED 55-inch IFA 2015 Exhibition FHD Transparent OLED SID 2015, CES 2016 Exhibition 139-inch 65-inch UHD Curved OLED TV Panel double sided Silver award in SID2015 Display of the year Vertical Tiling OLED IFA 2015 Exhibition, Focus On CES 2016 Exhibition OLED 55-inch 18-inch Flexible OLED SID 2015, CES 2015 Exhibition Double sided OLED CES 2016 Exhibition 1.3-inch Circular Plastic OLED Silver award in SID 2015 Display Application of 77-inch UHD HDR OLED TV the Year CES 2016 Best Innovation Award Korean Prime Minister's Award for Technology Awarded ‘Best in Show’ at SID 2016 15.6-inch Gram (weight 980g) CES 2016 Exhibition 5.5-inch QHD AIT Panel (G4) SID 2015 Exhibition Focus On 5.7-inch Auto AIT Technology Freeform Display (V10) LCD Applied Cluster CES 2016 Exhibition CES 2016 Exhibition 86-inch 25-inch Automatic Curved Stretched Display Waterfall (21:9) CES 2016 Exhibition CES 2016 Exhibition 30 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Development of New Generation Technology Plastic OLED Introducing the world's first 30R The best characteristics from OLED and plastic, including flexibility display and glossiness of plastic, produces a combined structure that The unveiling of the world’s first 18is highly impact resistant compared to glass OLED. By offering inch HD flexible OLED panel with a differentiated design factors using its plastic features such as curvature radius of 30R was lauded ‘Bendable, Foldable, and Rollable’, it is catching attention as a future at the CES 2016. LG Display plans to display material. achieve further differentiations in the mobile display market by utilizing the Smartphone Applied with Full HD new form factor which can be delivered Plastic OLED only by the flexible OLED. G Flex 2 used a full HD plastic OLED which was launched after the world’s Transparent OLED first plastic OLED, G Flex. It is designed LG Display has successfully developed a 55-inch Full HD OLED with to enhance the user’s convenience with over 40% transparency through application of transparent pixel improved visibility and curved bezel. construction technology. LG Display aims to obtain competitiveness of OLED application technology by succeeding in the development of Launched Perfectly Round-shape over 40% transparency with a curvature radius of 100R on 60” UHD Plastic OLED OLED panel through continuous development of OLED technology by Perfect circular plastic OLED display, 2017. G watch Urbane has proven its competitiveness and high-end technology by winning the Best of IFA 2014 Award and the Silver Award in SID 2015 Industrial Application. It has secured its competitiveness by combining OLED’ s robust feature and innovative design factor with stability and portability features of wearable devices. Development of Eco-friendly Products As the market demand for eco-friendly products increases, conventional products that meet customer needs have lower demand in the market. Therefore, LG Display strives to develop eco-friendly products to meet their needs and become an eco-friendly company. In 2016, LG Display plans to develop eco-friendly OLED lights with efficient energy consumption and low heat dissipation followed by our M+ technology, UV Photo Alignment, and N-type Liquid Crystal technologies. These do not contain any metals, such as lead or mercury that are harmful to the human body or the environment. Blue-light free lights are considered peoplefriendly due to its lower eye fatigue property. 31 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 S pecial focus Diversification of Product Portfolio Business Diversification Strategy Commercial Display Commercial displays are used for data transmission and advertisement in public spaces. LG Display has been expanding markets by introducing differentiated products, including the world’s narrowest 3.5mm bezel video wall and 55-inch transparent OLED displays at the CES 2016. LG Display also plans to lead our market with differentiated products, including e-boards, video walls, large-sized screen, ultra-slim bezel, high illumination, and etc. Automobile Display Smart cars with multi-media displays are becoming more demanding in the market. Therefore, LG Display is increasing the automobile display market share by focusing on plastic OLED navigation and dashboard display with our outstanding technological prowess. Based on accumulated technologies in areas of large-sized OLED panel, LG Display will set vehicle lightings, which is foreseen to grow drastically in the near future, as a top priority market. | Areas of Automobile Display Room Mirror Display Display video taking by rear-view camera Head Up Display Rear Seat Entertainment (windshield glass-transparent Displaying running status, simple navigation product, etc.) information Entertainment Running status, displaying simple navigation information Center Information Display Cluster (Center screen) Displaying running status and motion information Increasing the display installation due to the spread Increasing LCD installation due to information increase of telecommunication infrastructure such as auto running information and entertainment 32 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices 02 2015 Key Performances Industrial Incident Rate (%) Display the Better Future 0.015 0.006 0.009 Gaining Trust by 2013 2014 2015 [40% reduced compared to 2013] Prioritizing Safety Industry Status of LGD International Organization for Standardization is currently developing ISO 45001 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System). Once established, it is expected to raise the safety & health management awareness level for upper management and employees regarding safety leadership and active participation, respectively. LG Display is committed to strengthening and formalizing our safety and health management system following footsteps of the global trend. LGD's Approach · Operation of safety and health task force · Obtaining international certification for safety and health · Establishment of LGD safety rules · Implementation of training for safety and health LGD's Efforts LGD is operating safety and health management system by acquiring OHSAS 18001, KOSHA18001, high rating in PSM* assessment, and is building safe workplace by securing preemptive safety through an equipment safety certification. LGD has improved safety awareness level among employees with simulation based Safety Experience Center and Safety School for employees. * Process Safety Management (PSM): A system for establishing overalll safety management system to prevent serious incidents, such as disaters, fifire, toxic subtances leakage, and etc., in Korea Plan for the better LGD LGD plans to establish our own safety culture by evaluating current safety and health status and setting up improvement methods. We will also promote effective safety and health management activities by establishing job-oriented integrated safety and health system. And we will lead the world class level of safety and health management through preemptive safety risk management. 33 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Strengthening of Workplace Safety & Health Management System Building Safety and Health Management System Restructuring Safety and Health Organization The safety and health organization is consisted of the safety and LG Display is committed to provide the world’s best safe and health Management Team, which is in charge of overall safety healthy work environment to all employees and our business including establishment of safety management strategies and partners. We have attained fundamental safety as a whole and policies, and Paju and Gumi Safety and Health Teams. We have continue to build our own safety culture through various activities operated safety culture TDR in order to build LGD’s original safety based on TDR and HRM Task (High Risk Management Task) that culture by enhancing employees’ safety mindset through objective were established at the end of 2015. evaluation of our safety and health level and culture. We also have operated HRM Taskforce to prevent serious injuries by eliminating Mission potential risks in high-risk tasks and equipment. Obtaining a “Safe and Healthy Workplace” by implementing the world’ Certification of Safety and Health Management System s best safety and health management system LG Display is operating safety and health management systems, including OHSAS 18001 and KOSHA 18001, in Gumi and Paju Roles Plants in order to build safe workplaces. In 2015, Gumi and Paju PSM operation and securing safety for hazardous Plants acquired an integrated certification of OHSAS 18001, and Attaining facilities Paju Plant acquired KOSHA 18001 followed by Gumi Unit 4, 5 and fundamental safety Analyzing regulations, limitations and the current and legal compliance trend, and preceding solutions 6. With relentless efforts to improve our working environment, Identifying legal risk and continuous improvements Gumi Plant was re-certified for a Safety Zone Certificate. Establishment of employee safety and health policy Building safety LGD Current Status and standards culture Safety event/training/promotion for employees Category Latest Certification Validation Establishment of evaluation system for safety Region Level Date Period culture Unit 1 Prevention of occupational diseases OHSAS18001 Gumi Unit 2,3 Integrated Improving Medical examinations and care for employees with Certified Certification October 2015 3 years employee’s preconditions Unit 4,5,6 health Providing health promotion programs and medical Paju SVC KOSHA18001 Gumi Unit 4,5,6 November 2014 Certified 3 years Establishment and operation of the optimum Certified Paju November 2015 Strengthening disaster prevention programs emergency response Establishment of emergency response system Unit 1 August 2014 Conducting training programs and fostering system professional emergency drill trainers Unit 2,3 August 2014 Gumi PSM Assessment Passed 4 years Unit 4,5,6 September 2013 Safety and health improvement for overseas corporations Paju August 2014 and partner companies Safety Zone Gumi Unit 4,5,6 June 2015 Certified 3 years Certificate Paju October 2014 Establishment of Safer Workplace through Responding to Safety Accident In January 2015, an accident that a few of workers of LG Display Paju Plant and its supplier inhaled nitrogen gas during their maintenance work on process equipment occurred. LG Display has implemented a variety of responding activities by strengthening safety management system and spreading safety culture to prevent repetitive accidents at the worksites and strived to establish safer working environments. Safety Inspection and Improvement Completed corrective actions of special inspection from the Ministry of Labor and Employment Self-inspection of overall safety areas, including process, machines, fire fighting system and Strengthening Of Workplace electricity/Improved 270 cases Management System Strengthening Safety and Health Hired more safety personnel and formed safety groups in each Plant Established organizations in charge of safety culture, serious disaster management Capacity Strengthening Management Revised safety and health management guidelines and distributed Operate Safety Committee (C-Level) and Occupational Safety and Health Committee Commitment (Representatives of labor & management) Spreading Safety Culture Improvement of Employee Awareness Provided safety training to all employees, including executives and supervisors Established Safety Day Strengthening safety management activities under a them of ‘Back to the Basic’ 34 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Raise the Confidence through Hardware Safety Acquiring Confidence through Equipment Strengthening Hazardous Chemicals Safety Certification Monitoring All new devices at LG Display are assessed against its own safety LG Display has strengthened our monitoring system for criteria, which reflects both domestic and international safety hazardous chemical substances and gas safety to prevent and standards. These assessments have improved safety confidence in respond quickly to any hazardous gas leaks. In particular, we have securing preemptive safety of equipment and managing unforeseen integrated process monitoring and disaster prevention system risk factors. in our emergency response system to respond more quickly by strengthening management capacity and emergency response Equipment Safety Certification Process aptitude. Safe Equipment Design Five Objectives of Integrated Disaster Prevention System / Specification Analysis OK NG Safety Attain safety of control function service OK Precaution Safety Review Equipment Setup More control through increasing connectivity among Connectivity safety, production, and equipment OK OK NG Strengthening management through integrated Equipment Order Final Check Integration process monitoring OK OK Response Improving abnormal and emergency responses Midpoint Check Equipment Safety Certification Standardization Standardizing control roles across the platform Central Control Room LG Display operates a central control room to monitor and respond to emergencies. The main control system is equipped to properly respond based on monitoring data received from fire alarm system, utilities, weather and gas and chemicals. Major Monitoring System Central Control Room Emergency Response Emergency Response Activity · Fire suppression · Life rescue and first aid program · Chemical Substances Management Act for control of gas and chemicals Fire Safety Inspection Fire alarm Leak detecting sensor · Fire prevention program system · Electric heating appliance inspection in winter time Notification of Abnormality · Emergency alarm installation · Emergency broadcasting and sending text messages Utility check Elevator Situation Management and Control · Central operations room function · Control the number of personnel (training) Emergency Vehicle Operation · Conduct main facility monitoring · Fire trucks · Ambulance (first level emergency medical Weather · Emergency communication and control technician) CCTV · Rescuers observation system Interview Not having much experience working with diverse employees could have been a risk factor for a global company like LG Display. However, LG Display can utilize this as an opportunity to form a new paradigm for its unique safety and health management system. LG Display must be able to establish a sound safety and health management system to continue its growth. To realist this plan, the company should establish safety and health standards beyond legal compliance based on entire employees’ consents on top management’s commitment. These standards will be shaped practically only when all employees participate in providing feedback and evaluation. It also requires setting up proper safety procedures and practices even for partner companies. LG Display is expected to grow as a world leading company through its proactive effort to build its own safety and health management system. Ki-Sik Kim | Director of Safety and Health Policy Research Department, Korea Occupational Safety and Health Research Institute 35 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Strengthen Risk Management through Spreading Safety Culture Safety Culture Promotion Fundamental Safety Principle 2016 Safety Culture Slogan “No safety, No work” “SAFETY starts with YOU” It is LG Display’s commitment and right to safety which is prioritized This was the initial slogan to build LG Display’s original safety for all successful business achievement. culture. It shows that safety starts with each member’s own safety practice and it should advance forward to independence within LGD Safety Rules Safety Culture Steps. LG Display established LGD Safety Rules based on “No safety, No work” principle in order to spread safety culture among the Safety Culture Steps employees as we recognize safe working environment is our best asset. IndepenMutual Respond Dependence dence Support LGD Safety Rules 1. Report any unsafe condition to the central control room immediately. 2. Wear protective equipment during work. Employees’ Safety Awareness Evaluation 3. Don’t remove or disarm interlocks. LG Display has performed SCA* and ISRS** to review the 4. All work should be performed in teams of at least two persons. employees’ safety awareness level. LG Display strives to create 5. Take security measures before working with flammable materials, at heights a safe work environment by identifying the awareness of the or in confined spaces. employees through surveys and interviews and qualitative 6. Display MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) in Korean and attach warning assessments on safety and health management system labels on gas and chemical substances. assessments. 7. Keep fire extinguishing system, fireproof shutters, and emergency exits clear at all times. * SCA (Safety Culture Assessment) ** ISRS (International Safety Rating System) 8. Warm up and stretch before sporting events. Back to the Basic Establishment of Safety Day · CEO safety letter (Korean/Chinese/English) · Safety promotion: large banners (5 sites), banners (52 banners), display of Let’ After the nitrogen gas inhalling incident in January 2015 at LG s System Pop-up and incident cases (14 pieces), Sympathy Plus (297 sites), Display Paju Plant, the company established a Safety Day (Jan. safety announcement (3 times/day) · Absolute compliance of safety regulation: work safety (abide by the manual), life 12th), the incident day, to strengthen safety management of safety · Safety self-assessment (13 persons): checked 1,156 cases for improvement worksites. And the week of January 11th as a safety commitment status, high-risk job monitoring · Safety events with all employees period to promote different safety training programs under a -Safety Wish Memo tree (operating in eight places): approximately 7,800 persons participated (1,560 people/day) theme with ‘Back to the Basic’. We plan to continuously recognize -Safety suggestions and photo competition: registered 177 cases the Safety Day and the safety commitment period as a part of our safety culture. Example by Leaders · Reflect on safety related agenda in weekly meeting: headquarters and 15 business units · Companywide safety review: inspections by executives and designated areas (2 times) discovered 1,705 violations Safety Mindset · Showing Safety Movie: San Andreas (2 times/day), 401 people watched · CFR contest: a total of 48 teams with 96 participants · Emergency response training program for industrial workers: Paju (P8), Gumi (P45)a total of 2,607 participants · Safety simulations for representatives of external suppliers: a total of 287 participants · Special lectures on safety (Ministry of Labor, internal training): a total of 1,018 attendees (including managers from internal and external suppliers) Compliance with Basic Safety Rules · Commitment of upper management · Remind and pledge by all employees 36 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Strengthen of On-site Safety Training Emergency Drills LG Display conducts surprise emergency drills for all employees. Safety Schools Through repeated drills, we have enhanced fire safety awareness, In an effort to create a zero-accident, zero-fatality workplace, LG drill participation rate, evacuation readiness, and response Display has opened safety schools at Paju and Gumi Plants. The capabilities of employees. In 2016, LG Display will ensure safety schools provide hands-on training programs for safety continuously a safe working environment through internalizing accident prevention and emergency response. In 2015, a total emergency practice drills, conducting self-training programs, and of 443 employees received safety training, for a total of 14,176 fostering emergency response trainers. hours, at Gumi Plant Safety School to raise their safety awareness and secure emergency responding capabilities. Fire Suppression Fire Truck Response Rescue and First Aid Transport Patient to Ambulance Employee Health Management LG Display provides various health management programs to support all employees’ health. LG Display offers annual medical examinations, including customized comprehensive checkup for employees who are 35 and older at our in-house clinic and health management centers. We also provide nursing rooms for pregnant and after delivery employees and various classes for future parents for our employees and partner companies’ employees. All employees are able to check their physical strength, reflex, and flexibility at a physical health center and special lectures and consultations for any health concerns are Safety Experience Centers provided. In 2014, LG Display has also opened Safety Experience Center to Acquisition of Navi Certification in Gumi Plant help the employees to recognize on-site safety needs. The Centers Gumi Plant has succeeded in obtaining Navi* certification by at Paju and Gumi Plants were established to educate employees practicing various employee health promotion activities. It also has about possible prevention measures regarding 12 hazardous and been awarded for ‘the best health program’ among Navi certified high risk factors in display manufacturing processes. In 2015, a workplaces and presented its good practices of operating health total of 11,818 employees completed the training for 23,636 care centers, including in-house clinic, Lovely Heart Center, and hours at Gumi Safety Experience Center while 12,964 employees sports center, as well as health clinic programs, such as clinic completed the training for 25,928 hours at Paju Safety Experience services for obesity, smokers, and reducing alcohol intakes. Center. * Navi: one of Gumi’s manufacturing facilities that satisfies all the qualifications including physical working condition and health condition for individuals. LGD Medical Services Category List Details Consulting with medical specialists and prescription with medicines and medical supplies, special medical General treatment consulting, blood testing for employees with abnormal health condition Vaccination on hepatitis type A & B, and cervical cancer In-house Vaccination (30~50% discounts from retail price) clinic Treatment with In-depth medical exams using ultrasound, technical equipment electrocardiogram, intraocular pressure device, and etc. Physical therapy, Prepared technical examination device and treatment kinesiatrics equipment Others Aptitude test for a driver’s license Comprehensive physical evaluation and consulting after Assessment of physical In-house testing six different physical fitness, including cardio fitness clinic, Health endurance Management Health management Providing first-aid and general medicines Centers (Health Management Consulting general health issues, caring employees with Center) detected disease, Stop smoking and obesity clinic service 37 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 2015 Key Performances Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Carbon Management Special Award 03 MOU for Pilot Project Resource Circulation 2015 Display the Better Future Managing Environment for the Future Generation Industry Status of LGD Since 2015, interests and responses from the world toward climate changes and environmental degradation have reflected through launching of GHG Emission Trading Scheme and signing MOU among member countries for reduction of GHG emissions at Conference Of Parties (COP21) in Paris. Even at domestic level, the recognition of harmful impact, necessary responses, and restricted action for environment from company are required as its CSR. Thus, LG Display is determined to fulfill our environmental responsibility via environmental-friendly management at global level. LGD's Approach · Implementation and certification of energy management system standards (ISO14001, ISO50001) · Achieving 2,057 environmental objectives set by different departments (94% achieving rate) · Practice of energy saving and GHG emission reduction activities · Continued activities for biodiversity protection LGD's Efforts LG Display is taking a lead in responding to international environmental issues such as depletion of natural resources and climate changes by improving energy efficiency. LG Display has implemented energy management system standards ISO14001 and ISO50001 and invested GHG emission activities at Paju and Gumi Plants to further environmental-friendly management movement. Plan for the better LGD LG Display has developed a logic for verification index to conduct monthly review each department’s achievements in effort to strengthen the implementation of energy management system standards efficiently. Also, LG Display has developed environmental-friendly technology, M+, to minimize the damage to global environment. 38 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Building Environmental Management System LGD Environment Management Response Performances of Environmental-friendly LG Display is striving to maintain its environmental sustainability Management Promotion by implementing various environment protection programs beyond Status of Domestic and International Environment the basic regulation and restriction to minimize the environmental Certification damage and energy consumptions. First, LG Display is doing its Based on energy environment management regulation, LG best to reduce GHG emission and minimizing carbon footprint Display has successfully structured environment management along with maximizing the resource circulation by recycling water system for Gumi and Paju plants which were then certified under and waste material. Also, LG Display is contributing to environment an international standard ISO14001. Also, LG Display has been protection by practicing ‘one stream per one business’ activity to recognized as a green company by the Ministry of Environment preserve local biodiversity and environment. or Korea and obtained ISO50001 certifications for Gumi and Paju Plants additionally. In 2015, LG Display has won a special award of Green Company Image CDP from the CDP Association of Korea for its consistent effort of GHG emission reduction (industrial emission and energy saving) programs. Material and Recycle of waste water components recycle Resource Neutral water circulation Environmental Achievement and Management Index Green LG Display maintains environment achievement and minimizes Company corporate impact to environment by operating energy environment management system. All environment achievements are defined Environmental Minimization of as company achievement and department achievement and Contribution carbon footprint categorized by management goal and operation goal. In 2015, 2,057 out of 2,178 department detail objectives for company goal Biodiversity GHG zero from production Local environment Renewable energy have been achieved with 94% success rate. Also, LG Display has Green shared growth External GHG reduction & successfully saved 330 Million kWh by managing energy usage with partners forestation projects closely to practice ‘Power Saving campaign1520’ in 2015. Management Goal Operation goal Goal 1,819 cases 359 cases Achieved 1,792 (99% achieved) 265 cases (74%) Interview LG Display makes joint efforts with Paju Korean Federation for Environmental Movement to preserve the habitat of golden frogs and winter migrating birds. LG Display is also providing various programs with local education offices to teach local children about biodiversity and ecology of frogs. These programs also include special lectures and field studies for the local community of Paju to raise the awareness of environmental value. LG Display also has structured various educational programs such as ‘symposium for amphibian species habitat protection’ and ‘symposium for green frog protection in Suwon’ with relative experts, organizations, corporations, and NGOs to educate the community about endangered species. We hope to see continuous effort from LG Display, with Korean Federation for Environmental Movement, to be a coexisting corporation with community through further environment protection movements. Myoung-Hee Jeong | Korean Federation for Environmental Movement 39 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Response to Climate Change LGD Responses Strategy for Climate Change GHG Emission Reduction Activities The negative impact of the resource depletion and the world Since the government has enforced GHG Emission scheme in climate change has been increasing for industries. LG Display has 2015, LG Display has been showing great effort to reduce GHG been trying to proactively respond and minimize the material and Emission by conserving energy and reducing gas emission from management risk caused by the climate changes. According to plants. Through various effort to reduce GHG emission including the GHG emission scheme, LG Display has also been receiving factory gas substitution and use reduction, LG Display has a third party evaluation for GHG emission and reporting to the successfully reduced 430,000 tons of GHG emission, which is government. Thus, LG Display has taken an action to strictly 98% reduction. Also, it consistently invested in plant energy saving regulate carbon emission to comply with GHG emission scheme activities (equipment replacement and improvement). implementation since 2015 as a corporate citizen. Also, it has been continuously investing in new equipment for GHG emission reduction and energy saving. Reduced Amount of GHG* Unit : tCO2eq Current Status of GHG Emissions Unit : tCO2eq 431,795 409,178 376,913 7,692,579 7,348,481 6,921,520 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 * Performance of reduced GHG emissions by investing in seven core items, including equipment and process improvement at workplaces iIn order to reduce energy consumption in 2015. Case Study of Energy Saving Achievement LG Display is conserving energy effectively by optimizing facilities through changing and improving equipments. Gumi and Paju plants perform inspections for equipments, production processes, and energy consumption structure to find possible energy saving points. This contributes to energy conservation and GHG emission reduction by changing pump and compressor and installation of low energy consuming equipments. LG Display was able to save KRW 1.135 billion per year, 11,011MWh per year, by applying DI (De-Ionized water system) reverse osmosis based pump and saved KRW 1.9 billion per year from installing high efficiency drying process vacuum pump. LG Display plans to further its energy saving movements by energy consumption inspecting for oversea plants and partner companies. DI Reverse Osmosis Low Energy Pump Low Electricity High Efficiency Drying Process Vacuum Pump 40 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Minimization of Environmental Impact of Worksites Strengthening of Environmental Pollutant Air Pollutants Controlling Management LG Display uses specialized treatment systems for air polluting substances according to each raw/subsidiary material of each Strengthening of Hazardous Chemical Substances production process. Also, LG Display enforces 50% of the legal LG Display is managing hazardous chemical strictly from the standard density as its internal standard and continues to stocking to the wasting process to provide safety and healthy for develop new technology to increase the efficiency of the pollution its employees and partners. LG Display designed safety training treatment and decrease the release of pollution. courses for all employees of worksites, and for those in charge of treating and managing hazardous chemicals, as part of the effort to actively respond to the reinforced legislation from 2015. LG Display Efficiency of Natural Resources also tries to further the hazardous chemical safety management Increase of Waste Recycling promotion through posters and other methods. It continues its LG Display is taking its social responsibility to reinforce and maintain best effort to maintain the safety and prevent chemical accident by its resource circulation system to face the scarcity of coals and operating 24-hour surveillance from the control tower. environmental risk. LG Display has signed MOU on a demonstration project for managing resource and made various efforts to minimize incineration or landfills of production wastes and instead recycles over 90% of waste glass and waste resin, waste papers, and other waste materials. LG Display also has developed advanced technology to make glass fiber paper into natural pulp, translating into high-value added recycling and better protection of natural resources. Waste resin (plastic bags, Waste glass styrofoam, protective, recycle and etc.) recycle KRW 1.3 KRW 7.0 billion saved billion saved annually annually (Recycling technology) Cutting (Recycling technology) waste glasses finely and using Automatic sorting by them as raw materials for ingredients and recycle them as plasticized blocks industrial raw materials Reduction of Water Consumption LG Display is trying to decrease the difficulties of water supply through various activities. LG Display began investing in a wastewater reuse facility project worth KRW 100 billion since 2004 where, more than 50% of wastewater is reused in production or utility manufacturing process after undergoing Strengthening Wastewater Management treatments. LG Display is eliminating factors of risk based on the LG Display is enforcing 24-hour monitoring and managing analysis and assessment of water consumption and reducing water wastewater and pollution produced from the plants to comply use by enhancing equipment and process. with environment protection laws. A rainwater utilization system was installed so the hazardous substance is distracted away from local streams and transferred into a wastewater treatment plant of LG Display’s. Wastewater produced from the plants undergoes Amount of LG Display’s own primary treatment to be sent to the local water Saved Water reclamation plant to be released below the legal limit of pollutions. 105,473,313 (50% below for Gumi plant, 70% below for Paju Plant) LG Display ton(m3) plans to continue its effort to minimize the pollution through various actions including wastewater monitoring with systematic management. 41 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 S pecial focus Minimizing Negative Environmental Effect from Worksites Biodiversity Conservation Weak biodiversity preventing strong sustainability can be an opportunity for new business development since biodiversity is the necessity for bionetwork and ecosystem. LG Display has been a responsible environmental-friendly company through employee training, habitat purification activities, and hosting a biodiversity conservation activity symposium. 1st year 2nd year 3rd year (Sep ‘13~Aug ’14) (Sep ‘14~Aug ’15) (Sep 15~Aug ’16) Ecology classes for LGD Strengthening of local engagement Conservation activity symposium; employees; habitat monitoring activities; developing and publishing promotion of cooperative activities and environmental clean-up customized text book with biodiversity organizations No. of events and 10 events totaled 245 participants 8 events totaled 285 participants 12 events totaled 350 participants participants (planning members included) Biodiversity Conservation Activities Since 2013, LG Display has signed an MOU with Paju branch of Korean Federation for Environmental Movement to preserve biodiversity. LG Display also has been contributing to protecting the environment by preserving habitat of endangered golden frogs and assigning employees for Gongreung stream protection activity under the one stream per company In addition, LG Display Golden Frogs (2nd level Wetland Habitat Protection endangered species) Protection · Gongreung stream (Paju), Haepyeong is also performing other activities for wetland protection, removal · Habitat research and protection (Gumi) of invasive species, and feeding migrating birds. · Counting and protection of · Elimination of ecosystem disturbing species plants Key activities in 2015 Dates · Feeding and protecting migrating birds Migrating birds in Civil Control Line and feeding eagles 01 ‘15~02 ‘15 2015 Biodiversity Conservation Symposium (two times) In October 2015, LG Display hosted a Biodiversity Conservation Monitoring amphibian species in BoGwang Temple and 03 ‘15~05 ‘15 Symposium near our Paju Plant. This symposium was co-hosted environmental clean-up activities (three times) Monitoring amphibian species in Unjeong area and with the Korea Ministry of Environment, academic communities 08 ‘15~08 ‘15 environmental clean-up activities and NGOs and shared the current habitat condition and Monitoring amphibian species in Soryeongwon area and possible improvement methods by illustrating endangered 09 ‘15~09 ‘15 environmental clean-up activities species in DMZ and Gongreung stream protection activities. Symposium for biodiversity (amphibians) conservation 10 ‘15~10 ‘15 Monitoring migrating birds in Gongreung stream and 10 ‘15~10 ‘15 Munsan stream and environmental clean-up activities Monitoring migrating birds at Mt. Odu tower and 12 ‘15~12 ‘15 Bahngujeong and environmental clean-up activities 42 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices 04 2015 Key Performances Awarded as ‘the Best’ Win-Win Index Conflict-free smelters* Dream With Our Stakeholders Building a Mutually 48% 76% 100% Cooperative Culture 2013 2014 2015 [24% increase since 2014] *include active Industry Status of LGD A company’s competitiveness nowadays depends on how strong the network with its partners and how it creates shared values efficiently. Therefore, many companies try to apply mutual developing management to support the partners’ sustainable growth. LG Display should also create a fair trade culture and support programs to develop fair and healthy relationships with its partner companies. LGD's Approach · EICC assessment for partners and on-site inspections · Operations of fair trade self-compliance program · Implementation of four actions of mutual developing cooperation · Conduct partner companies’ capacity building programs LGD's Efforts LG Display is practicing various activities to create its mutual developing culture with the partner companies. It is creating a trust worthy fair trade culture by operating the mutual developing cooperation program. It is also doing its best in CSR management throughout the supplier network by establish code of conduct for partner companies and conduct on-site plant inspections. Plan for the better LGD LG Display promises to build a global corporate culture that never violates any part of the Fair Trade Act under any circumstances by providing fair trade training and internal audits. Dealing with conflict minerals, LG Display will do its best not to source from any conflict smelters in the supplier chain. 43 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Fair and Sound CSR Management CSR Management throughout Supplier Network Code of Conduct for Partner Companies LG Display is strengthening its risk management of supplier LG Display has developed code of conduct for partner companies network for all processes in business from research and based on international standards like EICC and ISO26000 to satisfy development to final sales. LG Display is systematically managing client requests. LG Display and its partner companies are dedicated each stage related risks such as conflict mineral management to protect all employees’ labor and human rights, safety and health, in material purchasing process and labor, safety and health, environment, and ethics as their corporate social responsibilities. environment protection in manufacturing process. Value Chain Each partner of LG Display to committed to upholding the human Labor rights rights of workers and treating them with dignity and respect. This and human Up-Stream Middle-Stream Down-Stream rights applies to all workers including temporary, migrants, students, contracted employees, direct employees and any other type of workers Purchasing Product Each partner companies cooperate with LG Display in designing R&D Production Sales raw material distribution Safety and safe processes and maintaining a healthy working environment in Health order to continuously ensure the quality of products and services. · Encourage fair trade culture by Fair Trade Self-Compliance Program · S upplier Network CSR management via code of conduct for Each partner companies of LG Display recognizes environmental partners and CSR training Environment responsibilities as critical factors in producing world class products and does its best to minimize adverse effects on community and environment from manufacturing process. · Strengthening partner · Support partner · Strengthening logistic companies’ response companies’ CSR program suppliers’ competitiveness, system for conflict · Support partner such as obtaining AEO Each partner of LG Display is to uphold the highest standard of mineral regulation companies’ green growth certification ethics in all business dealings and should not engage in any forms Ethics · Supporting development · Support HSE · Support finding new of corruption, extortion, embezzlement, or bribery of original technologies improvement of partner business opportunities in and strength of patent companies global markets competitiveness Responsible Each partner of LG Display shall have policy to reasonably assure sourcing that the tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold in the products they of conflict manufacture do not directly or indirectly finance or benefit armed CRS Management throughout Supplier Network minerals groups that are perpetrators of serious human rights abuses in the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining country. Each Recently, client requests for EICC VAP (Validated Audit Process) and partner shall exercises due diligence on the source and the JAC* Audit have been increasing as a part of CSR risk management. chain of custody of these minerals and make their due diligence measures available to customers upon LG Display’s requests LG Display has supported a third party audit fees for partner companies in Nanjing and Yantai to readily satisfy the request. After Each partner of LG Display shall adopt or establish a management pre-inspection on partner companies, we share any findings need Management system whose scope is related to the content of LGD’s code of conduct system for partner companies and the management system shall be designed to be improved with the partner companies, and provide necessary to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and customer technologies and know-how for corrective actions. requirements as well as conformance with this Code. Each partner should also facilitate continual improvement. * JAC (Joint Audit Cooperation): an association of European telecom operators aiming to verify, assess and develop CSR guidelines Interview In this fourth generation of industrial revolution, LG Display should expand its supplier network and take its lead in creating and sharing the values of partners’ strong competitiveness and safety and health management awareness as well as new age technologies. LG Display has showed its effort to encourage more direct communications with plants by opening a shared growth portal in 2014. I hope that LG Display continues to recognize and share sincere opinions to maintain its respectful relationships between LG Display, not in a superior position, and suppliers grow its importance in the long run, which is the fundamental element for success. Young-Woo, KIM | Research Fellow, Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership 44 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Building a Fair and Transparent Trading Culture Safety and Health Management System Certification for Partner Companies Fair Trade Self-Compliance Program LG Display is dedicated to support partner companies to grow their LG Display has implemented the fair trade self-compliance program to safety and health management system. It first practiced KOSHA/ build a fair and transparent trading culture with its partner companies. OHSAS 18001 assessments for partner manufacturing companies This is an internal program to voluntarily comply with fair trade with more than 100 employees and 18 partners have been regulations in sales, marketing, manufacturing, purchasing, and judicial certified as result. Also, coexisting safety programs for industrial affairs. LG Display is practicing various activities to establish fair trade incident prevention and shared development between LG Display culture, such as assigning supervising personnel and making a written and partner companies were recertified for both Gumi and Paju manual for fair trade self-compliance program. Plants in December 2015. Fair Trade Self-Compliance Program Strengthening of Partner Companies’ Improve internal and external credit ratings Environmental Management Practice of Green Shared Growth LG Display has initiated the carbon partnership certification process Incentives such Risk management and offered green supply chain management (SCM) consultation as reduction of Fair Trade Self-Compliance to the partner companies in order to enhance their response skills penalty Program to reduction of GHG emission and energy regulation, and practice green growth. In 2015, LG Display has performed green SCM Prevention of business Global standard consultation for 67 partner companies and we have signed carbon loss in advance partnership with 48 of them to continuously support their green shared growth. Creating Environmental Shared Values Improvement of Partners’ Safety and LG Display and our partners are moving forward to create shared Health Management Capabilities values, such as developing electricity saving through waste heat Operating Safety Audits for Partner Companies recovery systems and waste glass recycling technologies. LG Display is operating regular safety audits for partner companies to prevent any on-site accidents and prepare for any possible legal 986 t reduction* 1,956,120 kWh/year risks. In 2015, it performed safety inspections in 139 partner * LGD’s internal GHGs Electricity saved companies using LGD Safety Rating System. LG Display steadily assessment standard supports our partner companies’ safety management by providing training and technical support according to the partners’ needs. CASE STUDY Partner Support Summary Improvement Effect companies Worksite Evaluation Checklist of Safety Audit Documenfor Partner Companies tation Daejoo CDA large-sized compressor Annual electricity Machinery Joint development for waste savings Safety Co., Ltd. heat recycling system KRW 760 million · Risk management · Management of standards and · Chemical substances management objectives Health · Safety management CDA large-sized compressor · Health management Shinsung Annual electricity · Health management Joint development of airsavings · Personal protective equipment management · Fire safety management ENG Co., · Safety and health management system flow refrigerated dehumidifier Fire safety · Installation and maintenance of fire fighting equipment certification Ltd. system KRW 500 million · Evacuation and fire prevention construction Yoojung Obtained recycling Landfill unit cost Industry technology for waste glass, KRW 28,000 CO., LTD. containing film /ton reduced JEONGAnnual electricity KWANG General heat exhaust savings SERVICE Changed to Fan Impeller type CO., LTD. KRW 180 million 45 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 S pecial focus Responding to Conflflict Minerals in Supply Chain Background of Conflict Minerals Management of Conflict Minerals Conflict minerals refer to raw materials like tantalum, tin, gold, LG Display promotes a variety of responding activities for our and tungsten from areas of conflict in Africa that finance entire supply chain to purchase the materials from conflict-free violent rebel groups, who violate human rights by slavery, smelters. including child slavery. In 2010, the Obama administration Policy for Conflict Minerals Management signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act requiring all SEC (Securities and Exchange To be a law abiding and socially responsible corporate citizen, LG Commission) registered companies to report conflict minerals Display has established a strict management system. We have usage in order to prevent inflow of finance to the armed rebel enacted work process and clarified role and responsibilities in groups from mineral mining. each department to ban supply of conflict minerals associated with any conflict regions. LG Display and our suppliers publicly * Conflict regions: Republic of the Congo and nine present this management system to ban any usage of conflict adjoining countries minerals worldwide in the future. Conflict Minerals Policy · Establishment of conflict minerals policy and procedure for suppliers · Rational inspection process for origins of materials · Establishment and implementation of risk response procedures · Establishment and implementation of due diligence procedures based Sudan on OECD due diligence guidance Central African Republic Uganda Managing Activities for Conflict Minerals Congo Rwanda LG Display has actively collected data on conflict mineral Democratic Republic of Congo usage and its origins by the international standards and Tanzania guidelines. In 2015, LG Display developed its previous offline Angola Burundi conflict mineral screening program into online system Zambia to collect information such as suppliers’ conflict mineral information Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT*), real-time risk analysis, and selecting potential vendors for audit. By doing so, LG Display can monitor any involvement Current Usage of Conflict Minerals of non-CFS facilities and increase the confidence level in the information by consolidation. According to a survey of our supply chain conflict minerals * CMRT: Conflict Minerals Report Template footprint there are currently 182 smelters in use. By the effort of LG Display and our suppliers, we identified that our supply · Introduction of online integrated conflict minerals management system chain do not use four metals, including tantalum, tin, gold, and · Conduct due diligence and provide training for suppliers training sessions on conflict minerals to 1st to 3rd tier suppliers and tungsten, from non-CFS* facilities. check their conflict minerals management system * CFS: Conflict Free Smelters · Strengthening internal and external communications Opened a communication hotline for external stakeholders, and participated private enterprises’ forums and conferences Status of Current CFS Smelters · Encourage smelters to join CFSP (As of disclosure standards in 2016) Category Tantalum Tin Tungsten Gold Total Consultative Body of Conflict Minerals CFS 34 53 19 74 180 In order to respond proactively to conflict mineral regulations at the Active 2 2 group level, four LG Group* companies holds regular meetings to share Non-CFS best practices of conflict minerals. The consultation body strives to reach 100% CFS smelters in the industry, by sending letters to encourage CFS Total 34 55 19 74 182 certification among suppliers and smelters along with other methods in CFS(%) 100% 96% 100% 100% 99% response to any conflicts. CFS+Active 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * LG Display, LG Electronics, LG Chemical, LG Innotech 46 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Strengthening Competitiveness of Partner Companies Strategy to Propel Shared Growth with Supporting Programs for Partner Partner Companies Companies LG Display is determined to achieve our ‘No.1 Supplier, No.1 LGD’ Financial Supporting Programs goal by complying with standard regulations and being a ’Good LG Display provides financial supporting programs to offer financial Company Keeping Promises’, a ‘Good Communicating Company stability for partners with different financing companies. The for Partners,’ and a ‘Good Company Obtaining Partner Companies’ Company provides many different loan programs including ‘mutual Competitiveness’ with our own fundamental competitiveness. LG growth fund,’ ‘credit line account,’ and ‘network loan’ to help Display believes that competitiveness of partners is the same as meet manufacturing costs. In addition, LG Display has provided our own competitiveness focused on ‘One Team’ idea and tries to great supports for technology research, human resources, higher develop different types of partnership under predestined sodality productivity, expansion of foreign markets, GHG reduction, and culture. energy saving through Choongbuk Creative Economy Innovation NO.1 Supplier, NO.1 LGD Program to support Technology Guarantee Fund and Credit Guarantee Fund to practice the Fair Trade Commission’s special A Good Company Obtaining supports and ‘Shared Growth Investment Source’ for large to Good Company Keeping Partners’ Competitiveness medium companies. Promises for partners 1. Support technology and management consulting 1. Prohibit unlawful 2. Support hiring and training Financial Supporting Performance Unit: KRW 100 million requests and use Compliance of Basic for employees of partners of technology Standards 3. Financial support (mutual 2014 1,288 information fund, etc.) 2. Prohibit illegal rejection of return 2015 1,315 Fundamenand supply tal Competi3. Prohibit unfair Shared tiveness Technical Support Program payment for Growth subcontractors Confidential Business Document Prove Service / LG Display 4. Prohibit wrongful cancellation of order has implemented Confidential Business Document Prove Service A Good Communicating of Korean Institute of Patent Information to help in proving the Open Communication Company for Fartners ownership and source of the legitimate confidential document 1. Advocate acknowledgement of partners when required and to prevent any wrongful use or ownerships. This 2. Development responsive program provides the partners protections against any wrongful attitude towards partners information leak and technical assets. Performance Sharing / LG Display cooperates with partners to Open Communication with Partner achieve accomplishments and divide the benefits as agreed in Companies advance under the Benefit Sharing program. The benefits may be in various forms including cash payments, long-term contracts, LG Display is operating various communication channels utilizing number of outlets, and R&D prototypes the shared growth portal (winwin.lgdisplay.com), e-VOS (Voice Of Industrial Innovation Practice / LG Display is operating an Suppliers) and shared growth magazine. We have built 23 new industrial innovation practice system to improve the working businesses from 106 suggestions received through e-VOS in 2015. environment and production process for second and third tier This open communication provides partner companies better chances suppliers. When requested, LG Display and our first tier supplier to speak about grievances or suggestions. support 100% of the consulting cost and perform on-site assessment with the innovation task force team. By promoting confirmed innovative activities based on diagnosis, LG Display Held Dream 2015 Shared Growth Seminar supports the manufacturing technology developments for suppliers. LG Display held a seminar to share assignments for the future of Implementation of Win-Win Pay System shared growth under a slogan ‘Past 29 years with partners and future 20 years with partners’ with 52 partner company members in Win-Win Pay System is a payment system that allows first tier December 2015. During this seminar, LG Display looked back on the suppliers of a large company to pay purchases with the large increase of productivity to consulting and training for partners in the company’s credit to second and third tier suppliers so that they past 20 years and shared future plans for mutual future growth. can convert credit to cash rapidly to avoid cash crunch. LG Display has implemented this Win-Win Pay System since July of 2015 and remitted KRW 831.4 billion to 277 suppliers. Through this system, we support actively the bill collection for the second tier partner companies. 47 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Strengthening Partner Companies’ Competitiveness LG IP (Intellectual Property) Sharing Platform / LG Display Achievement of 2015 Shared Growth Program is taking the responsibility of building the LG IP sharing platform / Based on Shared Growth Program Signed Companies as one of the 4 themes of the Choongbuk Economic Innovation Center operated under the government’s lead. In 2015, LG Display has shared a total of 5,022 patents, 4,907 domestics and 115 overseas, for IP Pool operation. LG Display also contributed to the 95 cases 4 cases enhancement of small and medium business industrial technical Prove System for Technology LG IP Sharing Platform Documentation competitiveness by sharing IP professional personnel, and held a competition of shared patents and patent commercialization. Competition of New Technology Machines / LG Display 33 cases 19 cases sponsors an exhibition for a total of 200 institutions, including Industrial Innovation Benefit Sharing Program universities, research institutes, and small and medium business, Movement and full or partial development costs for their innovative ideas on new technologies of machine development. Achieved ‘the Highest’ Grade of Win-win Shared Growth Index Management Support Program LG Display has achieved the highest grade of WinLG Display is operating a Management Doctor Program, which win Shared Growth Index of the Korea Commission for provides the partners literary consulting by the Federation of Corporate Partnership for our huge efforts in developing Korean Industry to strengthen management competitiveness, mutual culture by pledge to fair trade treaty. In addition, machine business foundation development, and implementation we have been announced as a respective business model of effective management method. This program also provides as one of 12 companies, with our cooperating case with after management and mentoring services as well as sharing PoongWon Precision at ‘the announcement for respective management experience for partner companies. Furthermore, it companies with fair trading practice’ held by Fair Trade is building the future of shared green growth through green SCM Commission. consulting along with GHG reduction and saving energy inventory using carbon partnership certification program. Evaluation Process of Win-Win Shared Growth Index Fair Trade Commission Implementation assessment ‘Fair trade and shared growth MOU’ National Commission for = Corporate Partnership + The Highest Grade of ‘Win-Win Shared Growth Korea Commission for Index’ Corporate Partnership ‘Small-medium business level inspection’ Support Training for Partner Companies (Safety) Training Support Program LG Display has established a shared growth academy to provide training for the partners with weaker education infrastructure to develop higher quality manpower and competencies at no cost. The training program is divided into in-house learning, e-learning, and on-site learning and includes 6 Sigma, leadership, duty training, language, and OA related training. 48 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices 05 2015 Key Performances 2015 Sharing Happiness Award Awarded by the Minister of Health and Welfare of Korea Dream With Our Stakeholders Status of IT Power Plant Accumulative Operation Growing together 29 34 40 units units units through Strategic 2013 2014 2015 Social Contribution Industry Status of LGD Recently, many companies have been trying to improve their financial status along with their social status to be more socially responsible with the corporate management. Therefore, cases of combining business models and strategic social contribution are growing in numbers. LG Display also strives to do our role as a corporate citizen and pursue corporate sustainable growth through promoting business related strategic and systematic social contribution as well as continuing our traditional social contribution activities. LGD's Approach · Operation of an activating system for participation of all employees in social contribution activity · Promotion of business related strategic social contribution activities · Implementation of USR (Union Social Responsibility) activity LGD's Efforts With all our employees’ proactive participation, LG Display has been able to practice various social contributions such as children and youth fostering projects, which provide healthy growth opportunities to them, partnership volunteering for local communities, IT Power Plant, our strategic social contribution activity. Also, LG Display continues to strive to be an increasingly global contributing company through overseas volunteering activities. Plan for the better LGD LG Display believes in CSV and is determined to steadily contribute to creating Corporate Social Values utilizing display products. We will create community shared value by expanding IT Power Plant 2.0 program and supporting digital signage to traditional market. 49 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Establishment of LGD’s Social Contribution System LGD’s Social Contribution System Invigorating Social Contribution Culture LG Display has established a social contribution system to Specialized Homepage for Social Contribution increase our social contribution activities under the mission of LG Display is operating a specialized homepage* only for social ‘Love Young Dream’ and provide children and youth growth contributions alone. This functions as a communication channel and opportunities and encourage involvement of employees in social shares news, thank-you letters, and has an employees-only section contribution activities to be more practical corporate citizen. to encourage easy involvement of all employees. Employees can We are determined to resolve social issues through business easily apply for voluntary work or donations and manage individual connected official social contribution activities to fulfill social involvement in social contribution activities on-line. responsibility as a corporate citizen. * LGD social contribution homepage: http://love.lgdisplay.com Mission Encouraging System and Campaign LG Display encourages employees’ involvement through rewards, Love Young Dream including award from the CEO, badges given according to number of hours volunteered, and a year-end donation party. We are also Goal building an active social contribution culture by giving lectures on donations, social contribution campaigns and activities. Opportunities for healthy Establish a corporate growth of children and image of fulfilling social Monthly Operating Committee for Social Contribution youths in underprivileged responsibilities through groups involvement by employees LG Display holds monthly committee meetings consisted of managers of each layer to practice truthful social contribution Principle activities. This effort helps the transparent operation and dissemination of social contribution activities and culture. Employees Creating Resolving Inclusive Shared Social LGD Social Contribution Volunteer Group Chart Type Values Issues Head of the Social Contribution Committee (CEO & President of Labor Union) Social Contribution Strategy Committee (all business units and regional groups) Regional office (Gumi, Paju, Seoul) Obtaining Continuous Improving invigorating value progress between independence from employee Business and foundations for involvement Communities children and youth Leaders for each Leaders for through supporting Leaders for layer team each IG* unit activity training activity activity * Acronym for Informal Group, an in-house club Interview LG Display needs to gather more experts in social contribution to deal with size and severity changing CSR issues. A global corporation such as LG Display often finds itself involved in global issues like natural disasters or relief operations of refugees. This is due to the fact that the company has various business relationships in many different countries around the world. Thus LG Display aims to be a good example with its current direction of social contribution activities, which are driven voluntarily by employees and the labor union. The company is also contributing to global society to fulfill its CSR. LG Display is highly expected to further develop their social contribution as they have been doing so for IT power plants and signage for traditional street markets. Dea-Suk, Kwak | Director of Community Relations Center 50 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Employees Participating in Social Contribution Activities Enterprise-wide Social Contribution Community Care Contribution Activities Activities Gumi: Santa in May Relay Volunteering by Groups The Gumi Plant prepared gifts for children of low-income families LG Display has set up a ‘relay’ volunteer system where the on Children’s Day under ‘Santa in May’ program. About 200 volunteering activities can be passed from one group to the employees gathered gifts for 1,400 children of low-income families other to provide all employees chances to participate and share from 48 children’s centers in the city of Gumi. We are determined grateful feeling. In 2015, a total of 79 groups of industrial workers to reach out to those who are neglected in our society. volunteered in painting walls in under developed neighborhoods and creating picnics and kits for under privileged children. We plan to expand the ‘relay’ program to spread a culture of sharing. Paju: Family Volunteers The Paju Plant operates family volunteer programs during every Donation: LGDream Fund, Christmas Miracle vacation season, which gives employees and their family members LGDream fund is a charity program, which builds direct sponsorship an opportunity to recognize the value of family and sharing. In between underprivileged children, both in domestic and overseas 2015, about 100 employees and their families volunteered to help localities, and LG Display employees every month. Sponsorship and with cabbage gardening and other miscellaneous chores at the jobfund are increasing every year since LGDream Fund program shares training center for the disabled. We plan to continue this type of a detailed result monthly and semi-annually to keep its transparency. neighborhood care program every year for people in need. LG Display has also been performing ‘Christmas Miracle’ program which matches each child from 200 low-income families with each Santa employee to make the Christmas wish or gift of children come true. We plan to continue with these programs to increase voluntary charity programs through active movements. Performance by LGDream Fund Cash Donation Unit: KRW 10,000 2013 11,448 2014 12,132 2015 13,288 Number of Sponsors Unit: person 2013 4,678 2014 5,166 2015 5,619 51 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Revitalizing Involvement of Employees in Social Contributions Activities USR Social Contribution Activities LGD’s Social Contribution around the Globe LG Display Labor Union announced its commitment of growing USR Overseas Volunteer Activities as a corporation citizen to conduct open communication without Since May, a total of 357 LG Display employees have visited Siem any restriction for managers or workers and practice various Reap, Cambodia in ten separate trips to renovate public facilites for USR activities at the Union's Social Responsibility (USR)* kick off children. This included renovation of elementary schools, restrooms, ceremony in 2014. libraries, and water tank systems to provide a healthier learning * USR (Union Social Responsibility): Social responsibility activities of LG Display's labor union to environment for children. promote social responsibility as a labor union Volunteering at Job Training Center for Disabled The labor-management council member and 80 employees volunteered at the job-training center for the disabled, ‘Gyonam Uhyooji Dongsan’, in Paju city to volunteering. The participants had an experience to share a meaningful time with disabled job trainees through pepper harvesting. CSR Overseas Volunteer Activities Beside the USR’s overseas volunteering, in October 120 additional excellent volunteers from LG Display visited Vietnam to provide help in the underprivileged areas. They visited dilapidated Daori Middle School and built restrooms, a mini soccer field, and a library. The volunteers also visited Hahnbe Rehabilitation Center for the Kimchi Sharing Event disabled and spent time with the disabled children, who were Since 2010, LG Display has held the annual event of ‘Kimchi unable to leave the facility. The CSR Overseas Voluntary Group will Sharing.’ Required ingredients were purchased from the job-training continue to share with their neighbors in need. center for the disabled, Gyonam Uhjiyoo Dongsan and Moonsan Farming Association operated by local senior citizens to support Letter from the principal of Daori Middle School the local economy and provide kimchi to people in need. In 2015, Daori Middle School is the poorest school in Ly Nhan District Vietnam but has about 10,000 stalks of kimchi cabbages has been made and many brightest children. I truly appreciate your help for our school. It has left delivered by 300 employees and Mr. Han Sang-Beom, the CEO of such a thoughtful impression of employees of LG Display on students, teachers, LG Display. LG Display promises to continue to deliver courage and and parents through the help they have shown in person as well as the funds. hope to the marginalized people in our communities as a corporate We promise to put this help into good use for children’s better learning citizens’ responsibility. environment of children. 52 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices S pecial focus LGD Strategic Social Contribution Business Related Social Contribution Digital Signage Supply for Traditional Markets LG Display is initiating a supporting program to supply IT Power Plants customized digital signs for the traditional markets for LG Display is operating IT Power Plants to support technology revitalization of small local businesses. LG Display is providing needs for the children from low-income families and provide a digital sign at the gate of Paju Moonsan Traditional Market multi-media appliances and interiors for public facilities for for visitors to search for information regarding shops, events, children. Since the 1st IT Power Plant opened in 2008 till and local facilities. We plan to continue further development of LG Display has built a total of 40 IT Power Plants at various supporting programs to coexist with small local businesses. locations with the support of the Korea National Association of Children Welfare. This helped in providing a better learning environment for 2,377 children. Current Situation of IT Power Plants unit: No. of location Metropolitan Gangwon: 1 Area: 10 Pro Bono Volunteer Team Choongbuk:2 LG Display has formed the ‘LGD Pro Bono Volunteer Team’ with SESNET, a social enterprise firm, to practice corporate Choongnam: 4 Gyeongbuk: 10 social mentoring in June 2015. We hope this team will be the Daejeon: 2 stepping-stone to the future development that can be achieved Jeonbuk: 3 only with long-time experience and high cost. The team has Gyeongnam: 3 been divided into Marketing, Legal, HR, and Accounting teams through training and consulting in respective areas in 2015. Jeonnam: 3 We plan to raise the number of members to increase the practical contributions of social corporate influence in 2016. 115 11 41 Jeju: 1 Poland: 1 (47 including duplicated companies) No. of Pro Bono No. of Advisory* No. of beneficiary companies From 2016, LG Display plans to develop the IT Power Plant Adver2 21 2.0, which focuses on independent education for youth tisement 51 released from foster care facilities. We plan to offer effective Legal training through online and offline programs utilizing G pads to 2 6 14 encourage active participations. Tax and account2 10 ing 20 HR 5 10 30 * Number of advisory was calculated as number of attendants in the training x number of class (2 or 3 classes) 53 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 2015 Key Performances Obtained 2015 Family-friendly Company Certification 06 Dream With Our Stakeholders Creating Employee-oriented Value with a Joyful Corporate Culture. Industry Status of LGD Global leading corporations are focused on gathering and training highly qualified candidates to strengthen its competitiveness. LG Display also practices “Human assets are company’s future” idea and trying to gather more highly qualified R&D candidates to strengthen its competitiveness. LGD's Approach LG Display has been thriving to strengthen the competitiveness by raising the quality of R&D human resources through Technical Talk and LGenius programs. Also, LG Display has achieved Family-friendly Company Certification from the Korea Minister of Gender Equality and Family. LGD's Efforts LG Display is operating various activities to build mutual culture with its partner companies. It is building trusted and healthy trading culture by implementing Fair Trade Self-Compliance program. LG Display is also putting its best effort to its CSR management by providing a code of conduct and CSR work site assessments for its partner companies. Plan for the better LGD LG Display plans to continue to create higher value in employees by providing various competency development programs. LG Display also is dedicated to respect and follow Human Rights Standards for the partner companies as a global leading corporation. 54 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Realization of Sustainable Organizational Culture Creating Organizational Culture of Joyful Family Friendly Workplace LG Display believes in ‘happy home, happy life’ philosophy and trying to create family friendly corporate culture. LG Display has identified LG Display is striving to build appreciative working environment five stages of employee life cycle from single life to retirement based on ‘Human-oriented management’ for its employees. LG and recommends different resolutions for each stage to help life Display plans to become a ‘Favored Company’, ‘Healthy organization’ balance of employees. (healthy working environment for healthy employees), founded in three categories, including Wellness (Physical and mental wellness), Program for Each Stage of Life Cycle Family-friendly (Family friendly environment), and Joyful Energy (Active atmosphere). Stages Main programs Leader’s Special Day Gift For all stages Directional point Favored Company Heart touching events for parents Wedding Car service for In-house couples Single and pre-marriage Mid-to-long term Small weddings directional point for Healthy Organization realized employees’ Health and healthy organizational creating a Joyful Organization atmosphere Marriage and pregnancy Gift for new born Workplace May the Family Month event Infant and baby care Creating Joyful Provide working Field trip to parents’ work place energetic environments that organizational Energy Wellallow employees Gifts for first day of elementary school atmosphere to to focus on their Promotional work joyfully ness work and keep their Children and youth parenting Special classes for high school students Trust and mental and physical areas conditions stable College admission wish gifts Impression Separate from children and Care employees’ family to Happy 100-year-old program Family avoid conflicts between prepare retirement Friendly workplace and family life Management Philosophy People-oriented Management Joyful Energy Wellness Healthy corporate culture requires energetic atmosphere along In order to maintain continuous growth of an organization, it must with individual health. LG Display is trying to raise the comradeship obtain mental and physical health of employees as foundations and motivation among employees with various programs including for high productivity. LG Display is supporting for the employees ‘Dream Tree’ that supports employees’ dreams, year ending events to maintain positive energy at work and increase productivity. to share appreciation between coworkers, and Encouragement LG Display is operating fitness, massage room, and yoga class from CEO with direct word of encouragement for employees. for physical health of the employees and counseling, stress LG Display also operates activities to create cheerful work with management, and meditation programs for mental health. selected team leaders, Joyful Member of cheerful work program. Private and group Yoga class counseling Physical Fitness Center Mental Stress Care program Massage Room Meditation program Interview LG Display is consistently developing various programs every year to create Joyful Workplace for our employees. Especially, we are trying to listen to the voice of employees and learn their needs through the JM (Joyful Member) program. In order for LG Display to regenerate as a sustainable corporate with competitiveness, it has to create the right environment for mutual growth between the corporate and employees and increase of passion and dedication from the employees. To create the right environment, there should be continuous open communication, considerations for employees, voluntary and fair corporate culture, as well as setting up examples by management. Healthy corporate culture is equivalent to competitiveness. I expect to see progress of strategic activities, not a one-time or pretentious, to build healthy corporate culture for a long run. Yoo Kyung-Jin | OLED Light Marketing Team Assistant Manager Twin Representative of Joyful Member 55 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Realization of Innovative Organizational Culture Respect of Human Rights Fair Compensation for Employees LG Display complies with the UN Declaration of Human Rights, LG Display believes in the value of human resources and provides International Labor Organization (ILO), and any other international incentives for excellent performance. LG Display strives to increase its human right advocates around the world. LG Display with our competency by rewarding fair incentives to build stronger motivation partners are doing so by following the Human Rights Manual which and achievement for employees. provide guidelines regarding working environment, guarantee of legal freedom, and respect of human dignity founded on human-oriented management and business ethics. LG Display is Compensation System determined to fulfill our social responsibility for human rights as a PS(Profit sharing) Rewarded according to the company performance global corporate citizen. Vision Incentive Rewarded according to excellent performance LGD Human Rights Guideline PI(Personal Incetive) Rewarded according to individual performance Respect The best effort not to create any inhumane of Human treatment for all employees. Salary according to Market Value Set according to individual value and competency Rights Prohibit No employee can be forced into working against his or Forced her will under physical or mental restraint. Settling Gender Equality Culture Labor Obtained Family-friendly Company Prohibits any labor by children under 15 and youth Certification No Child under 18years old excluded from unsafe and Labor LG Display practices ‘Happy home, unhealthy duties. Happy life’ philosophy by offering various family-friendly programs, including heart No discrimination against one’s gender, ethnicity, No Distouching with parents’ events and field nationality, disability, religion or labor union crimination trips to mom and dad’s work program. involvement. As the result of LG Display’s great Comply with legal working hours under local efforts, we have achieved Family-friendly Working regulations. Company Certification* by the Korea Hours Ministry of Gender Equality and Family in December, 2015. Payment Comply with minimum wages according to the local * Family-friendly Certification System: award for the best and regulations. company with best family friendly programs including Benefits maternity leave, parenting, flexible hours, and fixed working hours according to assessment. Prohibit any unfair treatment for joining Workers’ Alliance Freedom of by open communication between management and Association employees. ComplyComply with labor condition in accordance with local labor ing Labor laws Law Human Rights Protection for Partner Companies Human rights protection issue does not only affect one business but other partners as well. LG Display recognizes the risks of this influence and is trying to protect human rights for partners. 56 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Attracting and Nurturing Talents Valuable Employee Recruiting Strategy Talent Attracting Program LG Display’s Right People LGenius Program LG Display’s right people are defined as ‘someone who thrives LGenius is a combination word of LG Display and Genius, and is a to be the best by presenting his or her professionalism and recruiting program to attract R&D talents. LG Display searches for teamwork founded on his or her passion.’ LG Display is growing our the best candidates from laboratories and relative departments competency by recruiting excellent talents, who can maximize his/ of universities. And we sponsor the candidates with tuition, her abilities to follow ‘member’s competitiveness is the corporate allowances, conference attending expenses as well as one on one competitiveness’ philosophy. Especially, LG Display is operating mentoring with LG Display researchers until their graduation to various programs to obtain more valuable R&D members for help them concentrate on the researches. stronger future foundation. Customer oriented, creative problem solving, fairness One who provides the best value to customers by fair competition based on relentless innovation and creativity Professionalism Passion LG Display’s Right People LG Display person endeavors towards the best based on Mind of the best, strong passion, professionalism, challenge, proactive and teamwork. attitude One who challenges to be the world’s best with proactive attitude and passion for work and people Technical Talk Listening and consideration, LG Display invited science major seniors from colleges to hold a mutual respect, total special seminar about recruiting of future R&D personnel. The Teamwork optimization One who thrives for the common seminar included consulting by experienced employees about value and mission with mutual recruitment and job descriptions and also offered Show Room Tour respect and trust at Paju Plants. This seminar also provided special lectures for each specific majors and helped participants to understand the overall LGD Talents Charter industry and technology. Under the idea of high value asset in outstanding individuals, LG Display is doing the best to create the condition for the members to perform 1 their best and to give corresponding acknowledgement and treatment for Global No. 1 performance. LG Display recruits and trains the qualified candidates for to be LG 2 Display person. LG Display supports its members to be equally respectful and 3 considerate for each other to prove their self-determination and creativity. Members are to be the best by challenging the extreme goals without 4 fearing failures. Try to make the atmosphere of wanting to go to work in the morning 5 and working with pleasure. 57 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Attracting and Nurturing Talents Talent Nurturing Program LG Display is determined to develop and strengthen employees’ competence and skills through differentiated and professionalized programs. LG Display is striving to grow world market leading individuals by providing specialized programs for each field along with language learning programs. Vision Achievement Office work Leadership General Job specific Global Technician Executive (Research Fellow) Division Head General Manager (Principal Research Senior Shift Giseong Engineer) Common courses LeaderLeader Deputy General Team ship Value Oversea Gijeong Manager (Senior Head training Entreof LG R&D Research Engineer) Display OndisIn-House Unit preneur the-job patched language Supervisor Gijang Core Manager (Research training employeducation Engineer) Talent Production ees Juim Assistant Manager (Associate Research Sales, Marketing Gisa Engineer) (engineer) Associate New employee Administration, support (Researcher) Assistant training Individual Development Plan(IDP) Strengthening Employees’ Competencies Individual Development Plan (IDP) Leadership Development LG Display supports capability building and continuous career To answer to the changing trend of corporate leaderships, LG development of individual employees though IDP, where employees Display is operating its own processes to strengthen the leadership. can evaluate their own capabilities and weakness to improve selfLG Display’s leadership development process is aimed at ‘maximizing development with mentoring from their leaders. The IDP also its core competence by leaders’ and defines the ‘LG Display furthers individual capabilities and visions with intimate career Leadership Qualities’ at each rank, and conduct regular leadership coaching from their line manager, thereby contributing to the competence evaluations. LG Display will continue to offer a range of fundamental competitiveness of the company. leadership development programs that enables the self-assessment of employees’ leadership potential and style. IDP Process On-the-job Training Visualizing IDP Career Continued LG Display provides a variety of training programs that are career Developcoaching support for vision ment progress specialized for the respective fields and duties with accumulated knowledge and technologies in depth. LG Display is also fostering OLED experts at all skill levels including new and displaced employees through an ‘OLED school’. 58 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Build Healthy Labor-Management Relations Win-Win Labor-Management Culture Invigoration of Labor-Management Communication LG Display has adopted a term ‘Labor-Management Relation’ to LG Display is listening to valuable opinions from our employees through various channels. The management and labor union representatives describe its exceptional relation based on mutual trust and respect. convene in quarterly labor-management council meetings and share Based on such a notation, LG Display and our labor union maintain the company’s management status and improvement issues through an exceptional collegial relation, working hand-in-hand to discuss working-level workshops and monthly review meetings. plans of improving the company’s competitiveness in the market. Fresh Board The Fresh Board (FB), a consultation body for the company’s Establishing the Best Labor-Management System junior officers, is an essential communication channel that listens In 2015, LG Display’s own labor-management system has been to grievances and challenges employees face. The FB Committee reported in the Labor-Management Newsletter, as the best system members and management hold quarterly FB conferences to deliver opinions of junior employees to the company, and share with the most harmonized relations based on mutual trust and updates on the company’s policies and current management status. respect. LG Display has established the labor-management system that contributes to social development by enhancing the quality of Subgroups by Job Position our members based on a vision of ‘Realization Common Goods for There are different subgroups by job position, respectively for office workers and engineers. These subgroups gather feedbacks from employees Continued Achievement’, which follows our management principles of all ranks, facilitate communication within the organization, and form a and core values. sound organizational culture as well as contribute to the development of local communities through actively taking part in CSR activities. LG Display in 20 Years, and Persisting for Another 100 Years Employee Grievance Policy “Best Labor-Management” Vision System LG Display has an employee grievance handling procedure that allows employees to report workplace issues, including sexual harassment, verbal/physical abuse, and unreasonable conduct. The company reviews Vision submitted grievance reports and provides feedback to help solve the Realization of Laborproblems. The grievance can be submitted with or without a name and Management System* for the grievance handling committee investigates the issue and promises Continued Achievement the confidentiality of reporting person’s identity. Open communication Core values 사기진작 Active collaboration Changes and leap Grievance Handling process Management Create customer value System Grievance Investigation Result principles People oriented management access and report performed notified registration filed * Gaining world-class competitiveness, enhancing life quality of the members, contributing to social development USR (Union Social Responsibility) Activity The labor union of LG Display furthers its USR activities to lead the labor movement paradigm and fulfill its social responsibilities. LG Display thrives for continued development of its labor union and better company image by contributing to company’s competitiveness and creating mutual values through USR activities. Direction for Action Mission Promotional Task Engaging in worksite-based Raise satisfaction and awareness of union activities union activities Strengthen communication, empower union representatives Ensuring sound corporate Remediating three major harmful practices Preventing harmful practices Mastering fundamentals LGD USR governance Strengthening management Improving communication with the frontline workers as a management partner partners’ roles Providing motivation for business performance Creating shared Engage in value creation activities for local communities Diversifying CSR activities Global CSR activities, Green Union programs values for society 59 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues ▶ CHINA CSR Performances Appendices CHINA CSR Performances 060 061 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Sustainability Overview Business Achievements Yantai Subsidiary LG Display has been targeting the Chinese market by establishing an Production began: 2010 8.5 generation LCD Plant in Guangzhou. The company has initiated Main product: Mobile local production to lower distribution costs, save on tariffs, and to increase local sales. The 8.5 generation LCD Plant recently doubled its production from 60,000 units per month to 120,000 per month to respond quickly to demand. Through various efforts, LG Display has increased 2015 revenue, KRW 19.3754 trillion, by 22% over last year in the Chinese market. LG Display aims to continue to secure its leading position in China through assorted efforts. 2014 KRW 15.1128 trillion 2015 KRW 19.3754 trillion CSR Activity Achievements LGDCA: Acquired certification as the first Green Manufacturing Plant and also acquired seven other international standard certifications (ISO Nanjing Subsidiary 50001, ISO9001, ISO14001, OHSAS18001, and etc.) Production began: 2003 Guangzhou Plant: Accumulated module production KRW 300 million Main product: IT/Auto CA, Guangzhou Subsidiary Nanjing Plant: 2015 Jiangsu provincial award – recognition for Production began: 2014 contribution to local community Main product: TV Yantai Plant: Awarded the Best CSR Company in 2015 Jeong-Do Management Jeong-Do Management Promotion The Management Diagnosis Team of China issues and distributes LG Display has established own Management Diagnosis Team its weekly ‘Jeong-Do Management Notice” to all employees in China in China to ensure the awareness and practice of Jeong-Do to promote Jeong-Do Management. Also, ‘Jeong-Do Management Management within the plants in China. The Management Diagnosis Empathy Plus’, and the newsletters written by the Ethics Bureau in Team of China reports on the status of Jeong-Do Management the HQs in Korea have been translated into Chinese and distributed practices in each plant. The team also diagnoses issues related to to each subsidiaries in China for the convenience of the employees Jeong-Do Management and provides solutions for each plant to in China. In addition, ‘LG Public Safety’ promotion materials and ‘LG educate and promote Jeong-Do Management to all employees. LG Code of Ethics’ have been translated and distributed to increase the Display will try to take a lead in building a healthy corporate culture awareness of Jeong-Do Management among employees in China. with transparency based on Jeong-Do Management. Jeong-Do Management Education LG Display supports its new hires to build their Jeong-Do Management from the outset, before their placements, by increasing their awareness of Jeong-Do Management through education programs. We also performed offline training programs for office workers and plant supervisors in four manufacturing plants and two retail sites in China in 2015. We will continue our proactive efforts to raise the awareness of Jeong-Do Management Empathy Plus_Chinese version among its employees. LG Public Safety_Chinese version 3,099 persons 2015 Jeong-Do Management Program Trainees 62 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Environment and Safety Performances Social Performances Activities for Supporting Safety Management Vacation Support in Each Subsidiary According to the Family Planning Policy LG Display is increasing the competence of safety management of the Chinese plants through regular safety management support According to the ‘Two-Child Policy’, the Chinese government programs. LG Display tries to not only perform beyond local safety enacted 「Family Planning Law」on December 27, 2015, and each standard and regulations but also tries to exceed international local government has proceeded related legislation at a local level. corporate CSR assessments, group safety inspection practice Accordingly, LG Display has guaranteed employees’ legal vacations status assessments, and safety management audits of overseas and leaves in accordance with local laws by establishing vacation suppliers. The Korean headquarters of LG Display plans to extend policy complying with the Family Planning Law. and enhance its safety management system to plants in China through continuous capacity strengthening activities. CA, Yantai Nanjing 2015 LGDCA Safety Management Support Activities Guangzhou Plant Plant Plant · Created Safety Management Guide 1st · Reviewed regulatory compliance status and supported technical issues quarter · Completed safety trainings, drills and other activities to lower the accident rate such as strengthening onsite inspections 119days 149days 128days Maternity · Performed safety management audits for overseas suppliers leave* 2st (for 29 suppliers) * Including 89 days of the national standard vacation · Checked group safety assessment implementation status quarter · Conducted fire safety equipment’s testing and trainings · Reviewed group safety assessment implementation results · Performed inspections of compliance with such as safety, 15days 7days 15days 3st health and fire safety regulations Nursing/ quarter · Checked work permit standards and worksite safety Parental inspections leave · Shared cases on safety accident inspection and safety incidents to reduce safety incidents in overseas subsidiaries 4st · Took a measure to improve group safety implementation 3days 3days 13days quarter evaluation methods Wedding · Evaluated safety of overseas subsidiaries via CSR inspections vacation Environmental Management Activities Promoting Activities of Social Contribution LG Display is proactively responding to the local eco-friendly regulation by acquiring international standard certification and concentrating on LG Display is taking the lead in creating shared value with local eco-friendly competence. LG Display has shown its efforts to contribute communities through various activities. LGDCA promotes social to the environment and build eco-friendly working environment, by contribution by environment purification campaigns and volunteer applying suitable strategies for each plant and successfully acquiring work with special education school students close to Guangzhou international standard certifications, including Energy Management Plant and Yantai Plant. The Nanjing Plant also gives donations to System (ISO50001) and Environmental Management System under privileged communities. LGDCA pledges to build mutual (ISO14001). LGDCA has acquired seven international standard culture with the local communities through active communication. certifications. Based on these achievements, LGDCA passed all 32 requirements of six areas under the Green Manufacturing Plant certification system*, including compliance of environmental regulations, energy and resource management, and producing eco-friendly products, and has become the first in China to acquire the Green Manufacturing CA Subsidiary Guangzhou Subsidiary, Nanjing Subsidiary Plant certification. Other plants are also proactively practicing ecoYantai Subsidiary Social and Goods Donation friendly management through various efforts, including changing to LED Environmental Volunteering at Special Activities lights, improving production process, reducing GHG emissions, as well as Clean-up Activities Education School recycling water and waste materials. * Green Manufacturing Plant certification system: an eco-friendly industrial policy initiated by the Chinese government, aiming to promote eco-friendly practices throughout the product lifecycle ranging from production and use, to disposal while following environmental regulations and various management indices. 63 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 LGDCA Eco-Friendly Management Social Contribution Activities LGDCA has implemented an eco-friendly production strategy LGDCA tries to further its social contribution based on three from the start and has acquired seven international standard different areas i.e. environment, education, and welfare. Regarding certifications including ISO 50002 for energy management, ISO the environment, the company promotes various environment 14001 for environmental management, and OHSAS 18001 for clean-up campaigns with local organizations and partners. LGDCA Safety and Health. Based on these achievements, LGDCA has also also donates equipment to local schools for education. LGDCA’s been certified for compliance of environmental regulations, energy/ employees visit senior centers to support neglected communities resource management, sound eco-friendly performance indicators, in the area. LGDCA has started special and for manufacturing eco-friendly products, and has also acquired programs for out-of-town construction the ‘green manufacturing plant’ certification. LGDCA has also workers called ‘Giving Cool,’ to provide established an award program wherein the recreational games and snacks, best suggestion with savings of CNY thereby creating a friendly working 50,000 per year or more is chosen environment. Giving Cool Activity ▶ for a cash prize. Furthermore, plants and dormitories have contributed to saving CNY 790,000 per year by changing 24,000 lights to LED lights. Joyful Workplace 2015 Outstanding Energy Saving Items Award ▶ LGDCA is trying to satisfy the employees through various programs under categories of Joyful Energy, Harmony, and Wellness. Thus, Safety and Health Management appointed ‘Joyful Members’ communicate with other employees to share ideas and accomplishments through regular meetings. In LGDCA is promoting fundamental industrial disaster prevention by addition, the new ‘Chinese & Korean Culture Golden Bell’ provides an building best safety systems and health enhancement programs opportunity for Chinese and Korean employees to build better crossto create a safe and healthy working environment. LGDCA is also cultural understanding. It also shows additional practicing on-site safety for the GP2 construction site by setting efforts to create a better workplace up various programs including a responsibility system, gas/chemical by providing medical checks and ‘turn-on focused management,’ and use of certified production health related lectures as well as a equipment. LGDCA also performs emergency drills for gas leak and monthly ‘compliment relay’ event for explosion situations, and has set up emergency responding centers employees. and control towers to prepare for any possible industrial disasters. Every 12th of the month is set as the ‘Safety Day’ to promote and ◀ Chinese & Korean Culture Golden Bell train for safety of employees. Interview Il Myoung Jin | Former Senior Manager of Zhou Juyen | Senior Engineer the Environmental Management Department Through the family invitation program in LG Display, my family had a Awareness of environmental responsibility, implementation of environment chance to understand and visit my workplace. We were able to build recovery technology, and utilizing environmental management are important closer relationships and teamwork among employees through kickball factors for all environment related work. Besides obtaining the green manufacturing plant qualification, various other system certifications such as tournaments. Furthermore, LG Display is providing well-structured support ISO 14001, and product certifications like RoHS and carbon footprint inspection programs internally and externally for employees to pursue further selfare required by national and community organizations. LG Display has shown improvements and professional developments. I hope LG Display continues its advanced competence in energy saving, pollution reduction, environment its support to maintain a good working environment for its employees. conservation, and cost reduction. Thus it should further its effort to raise the awareness and participation of employees for environment conservation. 64 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Guangzhou Plant Eco-friendly Management Social Contribution Activities The Guangzhou Plant has created an eco-friendly working Employees from the Guangzhou Plant has visited designated environment by changing to LED on the G1 site. It has also Luogang Special Education Schools under the ‘Share Hearts and successfully achieved substantial savings, operating expense Touch Hearts’ motto, and has donated stationery and goods for dropped from CNY 950,434 to CNY 475,007, by changing to educational activities. The employees in Guangzhou Plant have also mercury-free and energy saving LED lights. The company plans to visited senior centers and performed a variety of continue other efforts to improve the environment through G2 volunteering to share joys with local senior reconstruction projects, waste material and air pollution disposal citizens. Guangzhou Plant will continue processes. its efforts in visiting local communities to improve communication and to build Operating cost comparison for before and after LED Unit: KCNY mutual success. Before changing to LED 950 Volunteering at Jimyeong Special Education School ▶ After changing to LED 475 Joyful Workplace The Guangzhou Plant holds regular events inviting families of employees to promote more communication between employees Fire Drill ▶ and their families. In 2015, the Plant offered longer visitation hours Safety and Health to offer families of employees see their working environment and Management thus create a family friendly culture. The plant has also established various programs like ‘Sunrise’ to share new year resolutions, Guangzhou Plant has formed a safe and has increased communication channels to encourage production committee for safety inspection of communication between different employees and to protect the Plant, management, and maintenance team to create practical employees’ rights. and safe production. It also performs safety related training and ◀ Family Inviting Event fire drill on a monthly basis. The company is determined to promote higher safety awareness in employees and build a safe working environment. Interview Jang Hong | Assistant Supervisor Ryu Chang Yun | Manager I am satisfied with the support from the company for creating an The Guangzhou Plant is dedicated to improve the safety awareness level appreciative working environment and self-development opportunity for of employees and the entire organization by participating in government employees. The company is especially caring for the improvement of the directed platforms and safety drills. The plant should further its effort to physical and mental health of employees through monthly events. I hope be more proactive in responding to any danger by creating a safer working to see continuous improvement for shared spaces and more development environment according to its site, members, and equipment. opportunities for individuals. 65 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Nanjing Plant Eco-friendly Management Social Contribution Activities Energy Saving Activity The employees of Nanjing Plant have been sharing donated clothes The Nanjing Plant is practicing various activities to optimize energy and sport goods with the underprivileged local communities as well saving based on eco-friendly management. It has successfully as blood drives. The Nanjing Plant also provides various programs reduced energy costs by installing LED lights in more than 90% of for children of out-of-town employees such as providing free facilities including offices, warehouses, and production lines, and lunches and hosting field trips to Nanjing museums. The plant also modifying CDA trap and wet film humidifier for air conditioners. shows its support for neglected communities by visiting senior As result, it received a CNY 20,000 award from the Chinese centers. It is dedicated to support and share government and an Energy Management System certificate. mutual values with local communities through various activities. Free Lunch for Out-of-town 900 KCNY/year Employees’ Children ▶ Cost saving from CDA Trap change Joyful Workplace 1,060 KCNY/year The Nanjing Plant is trying to monitor and support the mental Cost saving from modifying humidifier of air conditioner and physical health of employees and to strengthen the bond and teamwork in the organization through various communicating programs such as ‘Town meeting,’ ‘Happy lunch,’ and counseling Safety and Health office. The employees have also built a ‘Tree of hope’ for Christmas The Nanjing Plant shows its dedication to create a safe and healthy with recycling cardboard, and held ‘Dance talent show’ and bus tour working environment through various activities. The plant developed during Chinese New Year for those who were not able to travel to programs to improve the awareness level of employees for safety their hometowns. and prevent traffic/industrial accidents around sites in 2015. Furthermore, it requested a signed safety contract from its partners, and conducted safety trainings and inspections on a regular basis to enhance its safety management. The plant has changed from annual inspection to quarterly inspections so it can timely evaluate hazardous material management system and minimize any adverse impact on employee health. Public Announcement Material for Traffic Accidents ▶ Building a ‘Tree of Hope’ Interview It is more important to form various communicating channels between employees to build trust and an appreciative work culture. The Nanjing Plant is supporting its employees by providing communicating channels where everyone can equally share their grievances. The Nanjing Plant is expected to create mutual growth with the employees by offering Jang Choon | Investment PO Management Officer systematic training programs. 66 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Yantai Plant Eco-friendly Management Social Contribution Activities The Yantai Plant is operating eco-friendly management through The Yantai Plant is actively pursuing social contribution by various energy saving activities including switching to LED lights supporting environment, education, and local communities under and recycle of waste heat. Part of indoor and outdoor lights for the theme of public welfare and love. In 2015, the Yantai plant the Yantai Plant have changed to LED light to improve intensity employees volunteered for local parks and environment protection and save energy cost. We have also saved steam energy in winter activities to contribute to the local environment. Moreover, we time through recycling coolant waste heat from Comp System have shared sincere involvement and mutual growth with the effectively. Moreover, the Yantai Plant successfully changed tap local community through various activities including visiting Yantai water from Y2 CDA cooling tower to recycling condensed water to local special education school to volunteer save water usage in winter time. for cooking class with students and donating school equipment as well as visiting senior center to donate 19,305 CNY/month 172,837CNY/year various household items. Cost saved from switching Cost saved from recycling to LED lights waste heat ◀ Visit Yantai Special Education School 12,600 CNY/year Cost saved from switching from CDA cooling tower tap water to recycling condensed water Joyful Workplace Safety & Health Management Yantai Plant is striving to achieve One Family based on three factors including true communication, happy environment, and The Yantai Plant is offering various safety & health training programs social contribution to build joyful working environment culture. For to nurture the safety awareness and improve emergency responding this, it has offered various activities including Children’s Day event, skills among employees. In 2015, Yantai plant also has conducted Family Invitation to create family-friendly culture, Korea-China traffic safety and fire drill trainings taught by local experts and cross culture marathon, as well as Sports local fire department professionals. It also Day for the local employees to raise their established its own power, electricity, teamwork strength. Also, it provided an and safety drills under environment opportunity for all employees to come safety management. Furthermore, it together during Chinese New Year contributes to the partners’ safety celebration. by holding monthly meetings and inspections of ten partners. Emergency Drill ▶ Cross Culture Marathon ▶ Interview Lang Lai Ei | Yantai Plant Cell Production Lee Jang Hwa | Yantai Special Education School Section Chief Assistant Manager LG Display Yantai plant is systematically offering joyful workplace program Social contribution activities are considered to be a part of industry culture according to individual’s characters. Through its mentor-mentee program, and scheme as a requirement for a people-oriented corporate. Thus, I active conversation between ranking, and high quality training, we were would like to say ‘thank you’ to the LG Yantai plant and the employees for able to strengthen the team work and improve the work quality. We hope their support our school with building a learning environment and providing to continue to offer more programs to raise the belongingness among our school supplies. employees in the future. 67 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Appendices 68 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices CSR Quantitative Performances Economic Performances Environmental Performances R&D Investments Use of Raw Materials (Domestic and Overseas) Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 KRW Backlight 1,000 271,694 291,321 260,566 R&D Expenses 1,674,780 1,787,593 1,546,840 million Glass m² 86,574,350 94,619,379 96,500,167 R&D-to-Sales Ratio % 6.2% 6.8% 5.4% polarizer 1,000 652,323 690,204 673,125 Drive IC 1,000 1,295,768 1,324,140 1,168,746 Liquid Crystal kg 122,696 129,138 130,093 Government-sponsored R&D project expenses Water Withdrawals by Source at Domestic Worksites* Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 KRW In a government100 152.5 163.2 148.8 Industrial funded project water 75,084,925 75,570,215 74,879,544 million Residen2,166,580 1,910,559 1,713,179 Domestic tial water ton worksites UnderFinancial Status ground 420,894 379,639 385,600 water Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Subtotal 77,672,399 77,860,413 76,978,322 Assets 21,715 22,967 22,577 * In 2014, figure has been revised due to parts of data error KRW Liabilities 10,918 11,184 9,872 Water Reuse Rate billion Capital 10,797 11,783 12,704 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Volume of water ton 97,138,928 101,236,797 105,473,313 Domestic reuse worksites Reuse Financial Performances rate * % 125% 130% 137% * Standard for water reuse rate calculation: Reuse rate= volume of reuse / volume of Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 new water input x 100 ※ new water input is a total amount of industrial water, residential water and Sales 27,033 26,456 28,384 groundwater Cost of sales 23,525 22,667 24,070 Discharge of Water Pollutants (Domestic) Gross profit on sales 3,508 3,789 4,314 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 KRW BOD ton/d 14.8 23.3 25.7 Operating profits 1,163 1,357 1,626 billion COD ton/d 10.3 15.2 9.4 EBITDA 4,998 4,850 5,001 SS ton/d 6.2 8.4 6.8 Net income before 830 1,242 1,434 income taxes Energy Intensity at Domestic and Overseas Worksites* Net profits 419 917 1,023 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Energy TJ 66,082 66,463 67,257 consumption Manufacturing 1,000 glasses 7,670 8,425 8,609 performance Energy TJ/1,000 8.6 7.9 7.8 intensity glasses * In 2014, figure has been revised due to parts of data error 69 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 GHG Reduction (Domestic) Scope 3 GHG Emissions by Domestic Worksites Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Domestic Employees’ tCO2eq 409,178 376,913 431,795 worksites Upstream business tCO2eq 3,871 4,180 travel Energy Consumption at Worksites (Domestic and Overseas)* Ship4,933 2,176 DownGoods transping Category tCO2eq Unit 2013 2014 2015 stream portation ImAccount 2,107 4,678 port LNG 1,319 1,103 1,184 TJ Direct Bio Energy Amounts of Waste Discharging and Recycling Rate energy Domestic (Domestic and Overseas) worksites Others 230 200 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Electricity 59,384 58,178 58,560 Indirect ProTJ 939 808 1,293 energy Steam 159 187 202 Hazardous cessed ton Wastes Subtotal TJ 61,092 59,468 60,146 Recycled 73,545 79,552 125,513 LNG 63 229 122 Incinera799 1,067 1,062 TJ Domestic tion Direct Bio Energy worksites General energy Landfill ton 39,250 11,280 11,142 Overseas Wastes worksites Others 16 17 0 Recycled 55,478 30,378 38,106 Electricity 4,872 6,654 6,899 Indirect TJ Recycling energy % 72% 89% 92% Steam 39 95 90 rate Subtotal TJ 4,990 6,995 7,111 Pro62 2,376 7,872 Hazardous cessed * Energy consumption is calculated based on description of ‘GHG Energy KPI’ ton Wastes Recycled 1,166 9,026 GHG Emissions (Domestic and overseas Worksites) Incinera335 225 339 Overseas tion Category Unit 201 2014 2015 worksites* General Landfill ton 2,367 3,439 4,024 Wastes Scope1 4,035,534 4,851,770 4,503,003 Domestic Recycled 7,391 15,415 24,823 Scope2 tCO2eq 2,885,986 2,840,809 2,845,479 worksites Subtotal 6,921,520 7,692,579 7,348,481 Recycling % 72.8 73.3 73.5 rate LGDCA 249,879 452,537 * The waste data of the overseas worksites is added and calculated only the Chinese subsidiaries Nanjing 118,502 102,999 119,141 Overseas worksites* Guangzhou tCO2eq 36,230 32,903 49,174 Emissions of Air Pollutants (Domestic) Yantai 22,928 16,699 43,095 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Poland 1,191 1,097 11,298 Nox kg/yr 83,421 35,885 31,506 Subtotal 178,851 403,577 675,245 Sox kg/yr 68,306 17,638 19,161 * GHG emissions from electricity in overseas worksites are calculated by using Dust kg/yr 151,837 104,644 75,119 emission coefficient of each region (applied since 2015) 70 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Social Performances Employee Data Number of Employees Covered by Corporate Pension Plan (Domestic) Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Domestic Male 23,851 23,449 23,885 persons Defined benefit (DB) 32,609 32,528 32,286 worksites Female 9,884 9,079 8,725 persons Defined contribution (DC) 7 7 5 Overseas Male 8,281 8,461 9,940 persons Local Procurement Ratio of Major Worksites* worksites Female 9,189 8,432 7,731 Female workforce Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 % 37.2% 35.4% 32.7% ratio Korea 84% 80% 72% China % 100% 79% 67% New Employment and Employee Turnover Rate Poland 100% 95% 94% Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 * In 2014, figure has been revised due to parts of data error New 727 311 497 Number of staff who received regular performance Office Experipersons evaluation (Domestic) 79 74 191 New enced Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Employment New 487 65 479 ProducEmployees subject to regular persons performance evaluation tion Line Experi73 persons 33,646 32,528 31,332 enced and career development assessment Turnover rate % 6.1% 4.8% 3.5% Employee ratio subject to regular performance evaluation % 97.9% 98.0% 94.7% and career development Minority group assessment Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Use of Parental Leave Disabled Number persons 415 492 529 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 (including Namumnuri) Ratio % 1.2% 1.5% 1.6% No. of employees on parental 394 543 1,084 Number persons 317 333 342 leave Patriots & veterans No. of employees returning to Ratio % 0.9% 1.0% 1.1% 266 342 725 work after parental leave persons No. of employees still employed in the company 146 241 253 Annual Average Training Hours per Employee 12 months after the end of parental leave Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Industrial Incidents* No. of trainees persons 34,501 33,018 32,646 Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Total training hours hours 1,450,000 1,113,270 1,626,283 Industrial Annual average training % 0.015% 0.006% 0.009% hours 42 34 50 Incident Rate hours per employee * Subsection 1, Article 3 of the Regulations on Industiral Incident Statistical Calcuations of the Ministry of Employment and Labor: Incident rate= (No. of the injured / No. of employees) ×100 Labor Union Membership Number of Complaints Received through Official Grievance Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Channels No. of labor union Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 persons 22,828 21,938 21,703 members No. of complaints 27 30 74 No. of labor union received persons 33,646 32,528 31,332 cases target No. of complaints 27 30 73* Participate rate % 67.8% 67.4% 69.3% resolved * One anonymous complaint was received in 2015 and the content was unclear, therefore, the case was not investigated 71 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Social Contribution Investment & Participation Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Social contribution Corporate Donation* KRW million 18,511 14,184 16,327 investments Volunteering 2,050 2,862 2,618 No. of Social Contribution Programs cases Social contribution Donation 31 44 44 participation Volunteering 28,198 33,843 31,541 No. of Participants persons (double counting allowed) Donation 4,678 5,166 5,619 * This is re-calculated as the total social contribution related expense, which includes corporate donation, social contribution fund, goods, and etc. Hours of Employee Training on Policies or Procedures Concerning Human Rights and the Number of Employees Trained Category Unit 2013 2014 2015 Anti-sexual harassment training 46,898 20,541 31,518 In-person hours training Other training* 6,818 2,943 3,763 Training hours Anti-sexual harassment training 17,375 13,250 10,750 Online training hours Jeong-Do Management course 609 1,820 10,898 Anti-sexual harassment training 31,446 20,541 21,012 In-person persons training Other training* 2,782 1,273 569 Number of employees trained Anti-sexual harassment training 11,583 13,178 10,750 Online training persons Jeong-Do Management course 609 364 10,898 * Other trainings include Anti-sexual harassment training, Jeong-Do Management course, Fair trade training, and etc. 72 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices GRI Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURE ● : Full / ◐ : Half / ○ : Not / N/A : Not Applicable Reporting Aspcet G4 Indicators page Remarks level Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as Strategy G4-1 CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the ● 2~3 and organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Analysis G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 2~5, 28 G4-3 Report the name of the organization ● 6 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services ● 8~9, 30~32 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters ● 0 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries G4-6 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to ● 7 the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form 11 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-8 ● 7 customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Report the scale of the organization ● 6~7, 69, 71 Organizational 1) Report the total number of employees by gender (employment contract/ employment type/ Profile G4-10 employees and supervised employees/region) 2) Report the scope of duties of workers except ● 71 permanent employees 3) Report any signicant variations in employment numbers G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 71 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain ● 43~48 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s G4-13 ● ▶ In December 2015, size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain OLED lighting business Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle regarding sustainability has been moved from G4-14 ● 14, 19 LG Chemical to to issues is addressed by the organization LG Display, and the List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other related economic G4-15 ● 77 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses performances are List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or described in this report G4-16 ● 80 international advocacy organizations in which the organization List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent 69, Refer to the Securities G4-17 documents or report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial ● Report (page statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report 43~45) Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries and how G4-18 ● 22~23 Identified the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content Material G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content ● 22~23 Aspects And G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization ● 22~23 Boundaries G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization ● 22~23 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and ▶ Some changed data G4-22 ● 69~72 the reasons for such restatements of environmental and Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect social performances are G4-23 ● 0 described separately Boundaries in each topic as a G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 17 reference G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 17 Stakeholder Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of EngageG4-26 engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the ● 17 ment engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and G4-27 how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its ● 22~23 reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided ● 0 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● 0 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial) ● 0 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● 0 Report If received external assurance regarding the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has Profile G4-32 chosen, the GRI Content Index for the chosen option, and the report, refer to the external ● 0 assurance report Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report, the scope and basis of any external assurance provided, the G4-33 relationship between the organization and the assurance providers, and whether the ● 0, 78~79 highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report 73 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 GRI Index ● : Full / ◐ : Half / ○ : Not / N/A : Not Applicable Reporting Aspcet G4 Indicators page Remarks level Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest G4-34 governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, ● 10~11, 18 environmental and social impacts G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees ● 10~11 Governance G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 10 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its G4-40 committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body ● 10~11 members (including independence, expertise, diversity) Describetheorganization’svalues,principles,standardsandnormsofbehaviorsuchascodesofco G4-56 ● 12 nductandcodesofethics Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful Ethics and G4-57 ● 12~13 behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Integrity Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or G4-58 unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity (escalation through line ● 13 management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines) SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURE Reporting Aspcet G4 Indicators page Remark level Economy DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach ● 28 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 20~21, 69 Economic Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to EC2 ● 40 Performance climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ● 71 EC4 Financial assistance received from government ● 69 Procurement DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach ● 43 Practices EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation ● 71 Enviroment DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach ● 28 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) ● 40, 70 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) ● 40, 70 Emissions EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) ● 70 EN19 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction ● 40, 70 EN21 NOx, Sox, and other significant air emissions ● 41, 70 DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach ● 28 EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 41, 69 Effluents and EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 41, 70 Waste EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills ● ▶ No discharge of serious Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and their habitats hazadous EN26 ● 42 significantly affected by the organization’s discharge of water and Runoff substances in the reporting Products and DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach ● 28 year Services EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services ● 28 DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach ● 43 Environmental EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria ● 44~45 Assessment of Suppliers Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions EN33 ● 44~45 taken 74 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices ● : Full / ◐ : Half / ○ : Not / N/A : Not Applicable Reporting Aspcet G4 Indicators page Remark level Soceity Labor Practice and Good Quality of Job DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach ● 54 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender LA1 ● 71 and region Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time LA2 ● 55~56 employees, by significant locations of operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender ● 71 DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach ● 33 Occupational Percentage of total workforce represented in industrial health and safety committees that Health and LA5 ● 34 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total LA6 ● 33, 71 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach ● 54 LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category ● 71 Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continues employability Education LA10 ● 57~58 of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by LA11 ● 71 gender and by employee category Soceity DMA Disclosures on General Management Approach ● 49 Local Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 49~53, SO1 ● Communities assessments, and development programs 62~67 SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities N/A Reporting Aspcet G4 Indicators page Remark level Economy Indirect Economic Impacts EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported ● 49~53 Enviroment Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 69 EN3 Energy consumption within the organization ● 69~70 Energy EN5 Energy intensity ● 69 EN6 Reduction of energy consumption ● 40, 64~67 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 69 Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● ▶ No water sources EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● 69 significantly affected by Operational sites owned leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and withdrawal of EN11 ● 42 water areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity EN12 ● 42 Biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored ● 42 Total number of IUCN Red List Species and national conservation list species with No EN14 ● 42 violaitons of habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk environmental law and Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for ▶ regulations Compliance EN29 ● non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 75 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 GRI Index ● : Full / ◐ : Half / ○ : Not / N/A : Not Applicable Reporting Aspcet G4 Indicators page Remark level Soceity Labor Practice and Good Quality of Job Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Diversity and Equal LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other ● 71 Opportunity indicators of diversity Supplier Assessment for Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts for labor practices in LA15 ● 44~45 Labor Practices the supply chain and actions taken Labor Practices Grievance Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved LA16 ● 59, 71 Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning Investment HR2 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of ● 72 employees trained Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken ● ▶ No discrimination Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of case in the Freedom of Association reporting year HR4 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and ● 59 and Collective Bargaining measures taken to support these rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Child Labor HR5 ● 56 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Forced of Compulsory HR6 labor or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms ● 56 Labor of forced or compulsory labor Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights Assessment HR9 ● 19 reviews or impact assessments Supplier Human Rights Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain HR11 ● 44~45 Assessment and actions taken Human Rights Grievance Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved HR12 ● 59, 71 Mechanisms through formal grievance mechanisms Soceity Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved SO3 ● 12~13 Anti-corruption through formal grievance mechanisms SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 13, 72 Product Responsibility Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures PR3 for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant ◐ 28~32 Product and Service product and service categories subject to such information requirements Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes ▶ No violation PR4 ● concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Marketing ▶ No violation PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and ● Communications sponsorship, by type of outcomes Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy ▶ No complaint Customer Privacy PR8 ● and losses of customer data received Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations ▶ No penalty Compliance PR9 ● received concerning the provision and use of products and services 76 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices UNGC LG Display has been committed to upholding the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the four areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. We produce an annual Communication on Progress (COP) on the progress that has made, and will continue to launch various activities that abide by the UNGC principles going forward. UN Global Compact Index Category Principle Actions Taken Page 1. S  upport and respect the protection of internationally ·Implemented ‘LGD Human Rights Guidelines’ proclaimed human rights and ‘Supplier Code of Conduct’ to ensure basic human rights and labor rights for employees in 44, Human Rights LG Display and partner companies 55~56 2. Non-complicity in human-rights abuses ·In-house training on sexual harassment prevention and human rights ·Guarantee Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 3. U  phold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining ·Establishment of System for ‘No. 1 LaborManagement Vision’ and pledge of labormanagement harmony ·Compliance with ILO regulations and UN Global 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Compact principles ·Implemented ‘LGD Human Rights Guidelines’ 44, 56, Labor and ‘Supplier Code of Conduct’ to ensure basic 59 5. Effective abolition of child labor human rights and labor rights for employees in LG Display and partner companies ·Ban on gender-based discrimination in wage, assessment or promotion and equal 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment employment opportunity and occupation ·Providing fair employment opportunity through fair recruitment process 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental ·Certification of Energy and Environmental challenges Management System and its operation (ISO14001, ISO50001) ·Promotion of energy reduction and GHG 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment reduction and continuous activities for bio38~42 responsibility diversity conservation ·D  evelopment of eco-friendly products 9. Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly (M+, UV alignment, N –Type Monitor, OLED technologies Lights, etc.) ·Promoted signing on Jeong-Do Management Pledge to employees in LG Display and supplier Anti10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including companies 12~13 corruption extortion and bribery ·Conducted Jeong-Do Management training to enhance employees’ awareness on ethics 77 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Third Party Assurance DNV GL BUSINESS ASSURANCE INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT No.: AS_ PRJC-544009-2016-AST-KOR 2015-2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OF LG Display Introduction LG Display Co., Ltd. (“LG Display”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of 2015-2016 Sustainability Report (the “Report”). The directors of LG Display have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of LG Display in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Scope of assurance The scope of assurance includes a review of sustainability activities and performance data from LG Display over the reporting period from 1st January to 31st December 2015. This also includes: · Evaluation of adherence to Accountability principles provided in AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (APS)2008 · Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content and quality in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 · Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. Basis of our opinion We’ve performed our work using AA1000AS (2008) and DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our professional experience and international assurance best practice. The moderate level of assurance with Type 1 was applied to the assurance engagement. The audit was carried out in June 2016. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: · challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; · interviewed representatives from the various departments at Head quarter in Seoul and at Paju Factory; · conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; · reviewed the outcomes of stakeholder consultation report and the materiality assessment report. Limitations The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of LG Display’s subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the websites of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) and LG Display (www.lgdisplay.com) within the reporting scope. These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at high levels in the organization were applied to test the data consolidation process. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or coresponsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available upon request at www.dnvgl.com 78 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the AccountAbility Principles as set forth in AA1000APS (2008). Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; The Foundation Principle of Inclusivity LG Display has identified 5 stakeholder groups such as Shareholder and Investors, Local communities, Customers, and Suppliers, Employees. Various channels are used to engage stakeholders by respective business units. The Report describes the communication channels with respective stakeholders, the organization responsible for the communication and communication plan. The Principle of Materiality LG Display has conducted materiality assessment to prepare the Report. The relevant issue pool is formed by analysing the key issues from the global sustainability initiatives and standards, the topics that industry peers consider material and the subjects covered by media for the year ending 31 December 2015. The issues in the pool are rated for the prioritization. The audit team has reviewed the materiality assessment process and confirms relevant material issues prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. The Principle of Responsiveness Material issues selected through the materiality assessment process cover economic, environment and social impacts of sustainability aspects. The report presents the sustainability management system including CSR strategy and performance, and CSR governance of LG display. Key performances in 2015 in association with material issues determined by materiality assessment help the stakeholders understand the effectiveness of LG Display’s sustainability management. In addition, the stakeholders can observe the sustainability performance trends with quantified data for last 3 years. Report Quality (Accuracy and Reliability) The verification of high level data was performed on sampling basis. Any errors and misstatements identified during the engagement were corrected prior to the Report being published. To improve the accuracy and reliability, we recommend that LG Display develop the documented procedure to gather and compile the performance data and implement internal verification during the internal audit in accordance with certified management system. Opportunity for improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to LG Display’s management. However, it does not affect our conclusions on the Report, but is provided to encourage continual improvement. · We noted that some environmental and social data sets within the reporting boundary are gathered mainly from the factories in Korea. We recommend that LG Display improve the data gathering process to meet the principle of completeness. Competence and Independence DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. June 2016 Seoul, Korea In Kyoon Ahn Country Representative DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. 79 LG Display Sustainability Report 2015-2016 Awards, Recognitions and Memberships Awards No. Award & Recognition Organizer Year 1 World Health Day “Hidden Man of Merit Citation” by Prime Minister Ministry of Health & Welfare 2 AAA Certification, AEO, Authorized Economic Operator Korea Customs Service 2013 3 Korea Green Management Excellence Award, Environment Minister’s Citation Ministry of Environment 4 National Display R&D Project Workshop, Award from Minister of Trade, Industry & Energy Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy 5 77 UHD Curved OLED Display, Award from Minister of Trade, Industry & Energy 2014 Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy 6 Citation by Chairman of Fair Trade Commission for excellent performance in shared growth agreements Fair Trade Commission 7 Citation from Prime Minister as a Resource Recycling Leading Company Ministry of Environment Ministry of Environment 8 Citation on Industrial Technology Security Day Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy 9 G Flex (adopting flexible plastic OLED), Gold Display Application of the Year Award 10 55 Full HD Curved OLED TV, Silver Display Application of the Year Award SID 2014 11 55 , 65 and 77 UHD Curved OLED TV, Best In Show Korea Patent Attorneys Association, 12 KAIST Intellectual Property Award KAIST, Korean Association of Intellectual Property Services Hankyoreh Economic Research 13 Listed in East Asia 30 Institute The Trade Day Award, Gold Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit (CEO) from the Ministry of Trade, 14 Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy Industry and Energy for his ‘Contribution to Trade Promotion’ 15 The 1st ‘Happiness Sharing Company’ Minister Award from the Minister of Health and Welfare Ministry of Health & Welfare Winner of Family-friendly Management Award Sponsored by the Korea Management Association Quality Korea Management Association 16 Assurance Registration Inc. Winner of the Korea Chamber of Commerce Chairman Award at the 3rd Korea Loved Corporate of 2015 17 Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy Korea Award Sponsored by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Winner of the Prime Minister’s Award at the Korea Technology Award (Development of the World First 18 Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy Round Plastic OLED Display)Sponsored by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Memberships Category Associations and Organizations Category Associations and Organizations 1 Federation of Korean Industries 12 Paju Fire Safety Association 2 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry 13 Industrial Health Association 3 Korea Display Industry Association 14 Korea Association of Occupational Health Nurse 4 Korea Printed Electronics Association 15 Korea Information Display Society 5 Korea International Trade Association 16 High Touch Industry Association 6 Fair Competition Federation 17 Korea Association for Industrial Technology Security 7 Korea Listed Companies Association 18 UN Global Compact 8 Korea Investor Relations Service 19 Korea Intellectual Property Association 9 Nano Technology Research Association 20 Korea Invention Promotion Association 10 Consortium of Semiconductor Advanced Research 21 International Trademark Association 11 Korea Industrial Safety Association 80 Sustainability Governance Sustainability Issues CHINA CSR Performances Appendices Contributors to Report Preparation Worksite Team Worksite Subsidiary Team Domestic Worksites Compliance Team Overseas Worksite LGDCA HR Safety IR Team Procurement OD CoE Environment Procurement Planning Team Management Diagnosis Gumi Green Team Management Support Domestic Legal Affairs Team Nanjing HR Technology Planning Team Safety Procurement Technology Cooperation Team Environment Labor-Management Cooperation Management Support Public Affairs Team Guangzhou HR Security Strategy Team Safety Safety and Health Management Teams Environment Win-Win Technology Team Management Diagnosis Management Support Ethics Bureau Yantai HR Joyful Workplace Team Safety Paju Green Team Procurement Quality Planning Team Environment Corporate Affairs Team Management Support 81 This report is printed on FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Council) certified paper with soy ink.
