COP 2015 FOR SCANDI LOGISTICS DANMARK A/S STATEMENT BY CEO KIM BROE BENDTSEN I am pleased to confirm that Scandi Logistics Danmark reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our Third annual COP, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and specially its principles within Environment into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely Kim B. Bendtsen CEO Scandi Logistics Danmark A/S ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES We strongly value the UN Global Compact principles within Environmental which is: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals. Our Integrity Doing what we say” we will do through Commitment are meant to serve as guidance and to think positively about possibilities in an open climate, while showing respect for both each other and one self as well as for the environment and future generations. During 2015 Scandi Logistics Danmark A/S has been exchanging rest of its fleet so the tractors today consist of tractors with EURO VI engines. This means that the fleet currently fulfills the highest demands within environmental friendly engines. The following norms: CO2 SO2 NOX Has been reduced with an average of 5% since 2014 and at the end of 2015 it was at its current level, due to the fact that the whole fleet now is operating with EURO VI engines. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Scandi Logistics has over the last 10 years applied KAIZEN to the workplace, with good results and we believe this specific model supports Human Rights. Kaizen is a Japanese word meaning, roughly, continuous improvement. Kaizen has three underlying principles:  • that human resources are a company's most important asset;  • that processes must evolve by gradual improvement rather than by radical change;  • that improvement must be based on a quantitative evaluation of the performance of different processes. LABOUR PRINCIPLES Our employees are of great value to us and are the key to our success.  Scandi Logistics shall strive to establish a workplace where our employees can develop their potential in an open and inspirational working environment. We shall maintain a strong commitment to high standards for a fair, respectable and safe workplace for all employees in Scandi Logistics.  All subsidiaries within Scandi Logistics shall comply with the provisions of the Human Rights Principles as well as with national laws and regulations. Should there be differences between the content of this policy and national laws or other applicable standards, the more stringent requirements shall apply. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Scandi Logistics is committed to ethical business conduct and compliance with all applicable laws and to the Anti-Corruption Principles set forth below. Prohibit bribery and corruption  Prohibit the offering, giving or accepting of bribes, including payments, favors or anything of value to government officials or others to induce them to engage in improper or unlawful conduct or to improperly secure business or a business advantage. Promote a culture where the board, senior management, all employees and the entire organization are committed to honesty, integrity and preventing bribery. Associate with ethical employees and business partners  Endeavour to associate with employees and business partners (e.g. agents, brokers, suppliers, subcontractors, etc.) who are ethical and do not engage in bribery. Strive to prevent bribery and corruption by employees, business partners and others performing services for or on behalf of the Member. Impose appropriate discipline or consequences for violations of relevant policies and procedures. Adopt policies and procedures  Adopt, implement and enforce appropriate policies and procedures to prevent bribery and corruption. Educate officers, employees and business partners on such policies and procedures through appropriate communication and/or training. Periodically review and improve such policies and procedures as necessary. GENERAL PRINCIPLES Scandi Logistics Danmark A/S recognize it’s responsibility to bring in humanity to business and work with the public, the government, and others to develop and to use resources in an environmentally sound manner while protecting the health and safety of our employees and the public. To meet these responsibilities, Scandi Logistics pledge to manage their businesses according to the following principles, using sound science to prioritize risks and to implement cost-effective management practices: •To make safety, health and environmental considerations a priority in our planning and our development of logistics and processes •To extend knowledge by conducting or supporting research on the safety, health and environmental effectiveness of our dispatching. •To commit to reduce overall emission and waste generation. •To participate with government and others in creating responsible laws, regulations and standards to safeguard the community, workplace and environment. •To promote these principles and practices by sharing experiences and offering assistance to others who work within the same segment. Kim Broe Bendtsen CEO Scandi Logistics Danmark A/S
