SDR cover S P E R O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A L L E • P Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Reader’s guide Getting around More information… Certification bodies Conventions This Group Sustainability Report makes use of More detailed information on many of the topics Certification bodies, eg FSC® and PEFC™, are Billion in-document navigation tools, allowing you to discussed in this online Group Sustainability referenced throughout this report, without We follow contemporary ‘short scale’ convention; navigate to the subjects that interest you most. Report is available in other Sappi publications, providing detailed information about each of defining a billion as one thousand millions. our own website, and third-party sources. our operations’ certification status in each The navigation bar at the top of the page will Where available, we provide links to these instance, to ensure ease of reading. Specific keep you apprised of where you are in the report. sources. As with other companies, when data is Certificate numbers are published in detail in expressed in specific form, this means that the Click on the icons to: Read more detailed information available in our FAQ ‘Our certifications’, available online. actual quantity consumed (energy, water etc) other published documents available on the or emitted (emissions, solid waste etc) is Move to the contents page Sappi website, www.sappi.com. expressed in terms of a production parameter Intellectual property for the period indicated. For Sappi, as with other Move forward one page More detailed discussions are companies, the parameter is air dry tons of provided in our regional Sustainability Reports Various, websites, research reports, trademarks, product. Move back one page, or for Europe, North America and South Africa, registered trademarks and other forms of which are published in hard copy format and intellectual property are referenced in this report. Tons Move back to the previous page you were also available online at www.sappi.com. These All of these, whether marked or unmarked, are We standardise all our reported measurements reading. reports will be available early in 2016. without exception, acknowledged as the legal using the metric ton equivalent to 1,000kg (one property of their respective owners. thousand kilograms). Access additional/explanatory information, Read more detailed information available including data to the Prosperity and Planet from third-party websites. Sappi’s own brands are protected by various Exchange rates graphs. Where appropriate, this information is copyright provisions; they include: Algro Sol®, also set out in the ‘References’-section at the Best viewed Algro® Design, Algro® Finess, Algro® Guard M, FY2015 FY2015 end of this report. Algro® Nature, Algro® Sol, Algro® Thermo, Average Close This Group Sustainability Report is best viewed, atelier™, Flo ®, Fusion ®, Leine ® Guard M, Related information within this report is using Adobe Acrobat’s PDF viewer, which can LusterPrint® and LusterCote®, McCoy®, Opus® ZAR/US$ 11.9641 13.9135 cross-referenced. be downloaded free-of-charge from Adobe’s PS, Opus® DX, Parade® Prima A, G and HP, website. Somerset®, Typek®, Ultraflute™, Ultratest™. US$/EUR 1.1501 1.1195 This report also makes use of Adobe Acrobat’s bookmark tools. However, viewing the report online, using your browser’s native built-in PDF-reader may render some of the navigational and interactive functionality unusable. Copyright © 2016 Sappi Limited. All rights reserved. Version 01, 08 January 2016 1 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Contents S P E R O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A L L E • P Leadership messages 3 Our investment case 57 Prioritising our people 79 Treading more lightly on the Planet is contingent upon… 101 Intentional evolutionary strategy responsive Sustainability in context 58 One Sappi — a hyperconnected diversity to megatrends… 4 equipped to evolve 80 Our global planet performance at a glance — On the cusp of renewal 59 a five-year view 102 Creating an environment for living up to our About this report 5 Our group strategy 60 values 81 Environmental management systems enable us… In context 7 103 Realising our strategy 61 Retention initiatives 82 Sustainability governance 8 Ensuring sustainable fibre supply responsibly 104 Underpinning our strategy with research Training and development 83 Global sustainability goals 9 and development 67 Energy — identifying opportunities and Measuring engagement 85 mitigating risk 109 Accolades in 2015 13 Responding to growing demand 68 Business success through diversity 86 Managing and mitigating climate change 112 Developing and maintaining a strong brand Stakeholders 15 presence in Europe 69 Gender diversity 87 Our greenhouse gas emissions 114 Key material issues 34 Developing and maintaining a strong brand Ethnic and age diversity 88 Reducing water use and improving water presence in North America 71 Prosperity 56 discharge quality 116 Monitoring absenteeism, turnover and new hires 89 Developing and maintaining a strong brand People 78 Water-use in our plantations — South Africa 118 presence in South Africa 73 Engaging constructively with trade unions 90 Planet 99 Reducing solid waste and adding value 119 Our value add 75 Promoting wellbeing, health and safety 92 UNGC 123 Soil 121 Our industry’s value add 76 Unlocking safety 93 GRI 133 Managing for biodiversity 122 Paper adds value 77 Driving meaningful change in communities 98 Glossary 146 Referenced third-party websites 150 S P E R O I R T P Y • • P T E E O N P A L E • P L Prosperity People Planet 2 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Leadership messages Unlocking our sustainable future The rapidly changing world around us is having We now have the opportunity to further transform a widespread impact on just about everything: and diversify as a business. global economies, industries, markets, consumer trends and our planet’s resources. To do this, we have identified numerous exciting As a company, we are embracing this reality prospects for which we are uniquely positioned with a focused strategy and some very clear to take a lead industry role. As a natural objectives. renewable resource company, Sappi is in an excellent position to help drive the renewal of Our way of living, and ultimately Sappi’s future, the forestry industry towards a low-carbon is being impacted by a number of megatrends, future. We will make full use of this opportunity. including shifts in demographics, technology, climate, the drivers of the global economy, as Our approach is encapsulated in our 2020Vision. well as the reality of adjusting to a carbonWithin the next five years, we want to maximise constrained future. As a company we understand the returns from our mature businesses, expand Entrenching sustainability into our these changes and are embracing them by our existing high-growth businesses and enter everyday operations is an ongoing adapting our business accordingly. new businesses in adjacent fields as we unlock process and not an event. and commercialise the potential of plantationOur ultimate goal, within this changing world, and forest-derived bioproducts. is to maintain our position as a global forest products leader. We will achieve this through The fact that we operate in a carbon-constrained the power of One Sappi — committed to world as a natural renewable resource company An ongoing process — not an event collaborating and partnering with stakeholders has opened up many exciting opportunities to — focused on being a trusted and sustainable expand and diversify. Our business is based on Entrenching sustainability in its broadest sense organisation with an exciting future in woodfibre. woodfibre derived from trees – and it is in these — the 3Ps of Prosperity, People and Planet fibres that we have found the key to unlock our that are essential to business sustainability — The quality of our people, their dedication, sustainable future in a fast-changing world. into our everyday operations is an ongoing resourcefulness and drive has made it possible process and not an event. The board and to overcome the transformative challenges in Finally, how we reach our strategic goals as a management continue to focus on all facets of How we reach our strategic goals our industry. Today, we are in a much stronger business is as important as reaching those sustainability and we have seen considerable as a business is as important as position to move ahead, thanks to our optimism goals. Our new group value statement defines improvements in all our sustainability targets. reaching those goals. and pragmatic approach in running a leaner, our operating ethos going forward — “At Sappi more productive and efficient business. we do business with integrity and courage, The board’s approved strategy to diversify our making smart decisions which we execute with business into adjacent opportunities will further speed.” enhance our financial sustainability. Steve Binnie Jock McKenzie Chief Executive Officer, Sappi Limited Chairman, Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability (SETS) Committee 3 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Intentional evolutionary strategy responsive to megatrends… re s Tr a n tu sfo i v e fu rm ati at ve rm fu sfo tu an re Tr s Biomaterials rgy se l ica oce Bio-ene hem llulo n tio c Bio va Nan no l in stry industry renewa Fore l ica hn my Te c no co Prosperity al ob y e Digit Gl ppl al su hain Tr a n s f o r m a t i v e f u t u r e s fo c Tr a n s lation popu nomies and future ty ed eco arci eing Megatrends s Resource sc r m a t i ve f u t u r e s Ag in impacting ra Changing prod st uc n our t o nge exp Increa e cha sed -c Our way of living, and ultimately Sappi’s future, affuenc t business ect e an a Peo on is being impacted by a number of megatrends et d Clim Plan ple inequa a lity shaping our world — we are embracing these erg y t b ion En r with a focused strategy and some very clear ca s objectives. Sk ills s ift To reshape Sappi’s future, our 2020Vision Food secu Ris sh rity ation Migr eo draws on the power of One Sappi as we move — f th us beyond pulp and paper to unlock and x eas Incr e in Megacitie Ne commercialise the potential of woodfibre div ed u idu derived bioproducts. rban s s al Tr re tu isat an Our strategic evolution is underpinned by a fu sf or ion ive m commitment to collaborating and partnering ma at t for ive with our stakeholders, and aims to position Tr a fut Sappi as a trusted and sustainable organisation ns s u re with an exciting future in woodfibre. 4 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References About this report In an increasingly carbon-constrained future, we are well positioned to develop new opportunities that derive value from nanocellulose, biorefinery products and energy. Scope of this report Reporting framework Joint ventures excluded Global Reporting Initiative This report is aligned with our Annual Integrated As Sappi Limited is headquartered in South LignoTech South Africa, our 50:50 joint venture We have reported in terms of the Global Report and covers FY2015, the period from the Africa and we have our primary listing on the with Borregaard at Saiccor Mill, is excluded as Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) G4 Sustainability beginning of October 2014 to the end of Johannesburg Stock Exchange, we abide by we do not manage the operation. Reporting Guidelines (Core). September 2015. the King III Code on Corporate Governance (King III). Sold mills included We have included a GRI Index and a separate We report on a regional and global basis, document communicating our progress in terms wherever possible presenting data over five Aligned with King III’s recommendation for Data relating to our Cape Kraft and Enstra Mills of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). years to make the information relevant, integrated reporting, our Annual Integrated is included in the graphs and related commentary. accessible and comparable. Report provides a very clear link between Sales of both mills were concluded shortly after sustainability and strategy and gives a broad year-end. Safety, health, quality and environmental data view of our overall sustainability performance. is compiled according to international best Identifying stakeholders practice. In response to stakeholders’ needs for more We have identified the stakeholders we expect Commentary is provided on graphs to enhance in-depth information pertinent to their specific to use our report on the basis of our ongoing understanding and explain specific measurement region, we publish region-specific Sustainability engagement with them — formal and informal. criteria. It is clearly pointed out where Reports in addition to this Group Sustainability The various ways in which we engage our measurement criteria have changed. Report. stakeholders are set out in detail in the ‘Stakeholders’-section of this report. The Our 2015 regional Sustainability Reports for our stakeholders we expect to use this report operations in Southern Africa and Europe, include investors, customers, suppliers, together with an updated summary for North employees, communities, governmental and America, will be available in 2016. non-governmental organisations, environmental bodies and all those who are affected by our activities. 5 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References About this report continued Defining report content External assurance Determining materiality Internal audit Indices We consider material matters to be those Throughout the report, qualitative text is backed Currently, assurance of sustainability information Sappi Limited is a constituent of the FTSE/JSE matters that could facilitate or inhibit our One up by quantitative information, generally in the is conducted by our internal audit team. Their Responsible Investment Index and the FTSE/ Sappi strategy and that could substantively form of graphs illustrating performance over five verification process includes reviewing the JSE Responsible Investment Top 30 Index. affect — either positively or negatively — our financial years from FY2010 to FY2015. procedures applied for collecting and/or Being included in these indices means that our ability to create stakeholder value over the measuring, calculating and validating nonsustainability performance has been externally short-, mediumand long-term. Employee numbers are reported on a full time financial data, as well as reviewing reported assessed. equivalent (FTE) basis; employment equity information and supporting documentation. The information presented has been determined numbers are reported as headcount on 30 Confidence on the basis of our ongoing extensive September 2015. External verification Collectively, these external assessments and engagement with our stakeholders and has In practice, most of our key operations undergo certifications as well as interaction with our been assessed against the backdrop of current We aim to present information that is material, external verification including the Ecostakeholders give us confidence that our business operations, as well as the opportunities, accurate, comparable, relevant and complete. Management Audit System (EMAS) in Europe performance indicators are reliable, accurate challenges and prevailing trends in our industry The information presented covers topics and and globally, ISO 14001 environmental and pertinent. and the global economy. indicators that reflect our significant economic, certification, ISO 9001 quality certification and environmental, and social impacts, as well as OHSAS 18001 certification. External verification These trends occur in the broader context of a issues that would substantively influence the The Social, Ethics, Transformation and world where climate change concerns and assessments and decisions of stakeholders. Forest certification systems Sustainability (SETS) Committee reviews the resource scarcity are raising expectations to We are also assessed in terms of the forest efficacy of conducting external assurance make more and better with less and where We established new group goals in 2015 and will certification systems we use. annually. sustainably manufactured products derived from report on progress (or lack thereof) against these renewable resources are more important than in 2016. We publish our performance against BBBEE Performance The committee considered external verification ever before. targets in our regional Sustainability Reports, In South Africa, our Broad-based Black in the year under review, but is satisfied that the transparently reporting on success or lack thereof Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) performance sustainability information presented in this report Based on this context, we have realigned our in achieving these targets. is assessed by an external ratings agency. has been provided with a reasonable degree of strategy to maintain our position as a global accuracy. forest products leader and developed a global Prioritising content vision based on the power of One Sappi. This report is structured along Sappi’s wellestablished 3Ps of sustainability: Prosperity, In preparing this report we have tracked People and Planet. It covers material sustainability environmental findings and research, public focus areas that affect the long-term success opinion, employee views and attitudes, the of our business, and that relate to any significant interests and priorities of environmental and impacts we have on the economy, environment social groups, as well as the activities, profiles or communities in which we operate. and interests of investors, employees, suppliers, customers, communities, governments and While we do cover economic (Prosperity) issues regulatory authorities. to some extent, these are dealt with in detail in our Annual Integrated Report. 6 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References megatrend In context resource scarcity By 2030, almost half the world will live under conditions of high water stress. 7 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Sustainability governance Our approach to sustainability is framed in terms of Prosperity, People and Planet — referred to internally as the 3Ps — and is set Sappi Limited board out in our Sustainability Charter. This in turn is underpinned by the Code of Ethics and our group value statement: “At Sappi we Social, Ethics, Transformation and Sustainability (SETS) do business with integrity and courage, making Endorses Sustainability Charter Committee smart decisions which we execute with speed.” Regional Sustainability Councils (RSCs) operate in Europe, North America and South Africa. Group Sustainable Development Council Ensures SETS requirements are (GSDC) incorporated into regions Each RSC focuses on key material issues relevant to their specific region and on incorporating sustainability into everyday business processes. Sappi Southern Africa Executive Committee These RSCs report to the Group Sustainable Development Council which in turn reports to the Social, Ethics, Transformation and Strategy development and Sustainability (SETS) Committee which in turn Regional Sustainability Councils implementation reports to the board. Sustainability ambassadors help to entrench an Sustainability ambassadors in Europe and North America Target setting holistic approach to the 3Ps of Prosperity, and brand ambassadors in South Africa People and Planet throughout the group. Employees Budgeting Report back on targets and Spread our initiatives sustainability story Data collection and verification 8 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Global sustainability goals Continued improvement Target FY2014 Baseline FY2015 Achievement FY2015 Performance FY2020 Goal Our targets reflect issues that are important to our sustainability as a business and are a key Prosperity element in our work to continually improve our performance in terms of the 3Ps. ROCEreturn on capital 10.8% 12.4% 15% improvement 12%minimum employed Progress — or lack thereof — against our targets is monitored and reported on regularly to: management, the Regional Sustainability Councils, the Global Sustainable Development Council and ultimately, to the SETS Committee, LTIFR 0.53 0.48 9% 10% a fully constituted board committee. own and contractor improvement minimum year-on-year employees combined improvement 2020Vision targets Target: 0 In line with our 2020Vision and One Sappi People strategic approach, in 2015 we established En global sustainability targets. ple eo ged Regional five-year (2016-2020) targets, all with P Employee Engagement ga Measured every 74% Not applicable 76% Ene alternate year d le b FY2014 as a base-year, are aligned to our global rgis Ena ed goals — see pages 10 to 12. Capital spend budget over these five years will be used to determine targets in various elements. Regional performance against previously established FY2015 targets in Europe and South STE (specific total energy) 21.05GJ/adt 20.18GJ/adt 4% improvement 5% improvement energy efficiency over period Africa, and performance against 2016 targets in North America, are reported in our regional Planet Sustainability Reports. Fibrecertified 79% 79% Maintained 79% 9 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our regional sustainability goals and 2020 targets — Europe Europe Prosperity People Planet Engagement of employees (combination of Produces 10% >70% participation rate and % sustainably engaged, 49% of EBITDA survey every two years), participation from 71% (2015) to 75% (2020), % of sustainably engaged: total certified fibre group sales based on turnover 80%. content 6 Stay at level or ahead of European Trading Scheme (ETS) cost increase. LTIFR — SEU 2016: 0,8 annual reduction of 10% the following years >5 % paper mills specific CO2 reduction 1 5% overall machine efficiency speciality paper improvement mill by 2020 16 sales offices 10 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our regional sustainability goals and 2020 targets — North America North America Prosperity People Planet Produces 12 % zero 60% Achieve 26 % of annual return workplace injuries total certified fibre group sales on net assets (LTIFR) content 1 1 60 Offer hours 5% reduction in energy intensity paper mill speciality paper training and education (total energy per per employee annually mill (hrs/employee) saleable ton) 1 5% reduction of paper mills’ paper and specific raw material specialised (fibre, fillers and cellulose mill coatings) waste 4 10% sales offices reduction of pulp mills’ specific raw material waste 11 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our regional sustainability goals and 2020 targets — South Africa South Africa Prosperity People Planet Combined Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for own employees and contractors to be Produces >20% 100% 70% better than best-ever achieved on a continuous 25% of EBITDA 12-month basis and Lost Time Injury Severity Rate to be below 25. certified certified group sales margin own timber purchased timber and pulp *Including Cape Kraft and Enstra Mills. Sales of both mills were concluded shortly after year-end. 1 4* Sustainable cut above four million wet white tons per annum. Level 4 10% paper and paper mills BBBEE compliance in respect of the new reduction in specialised forestry codes specific purchased cellulose mill fossil energy 1 1 10% specialised sawmill reduction in total specific fresh cellulose mill water usage 4 492,000ha Engaged employees participation, commitment and issues closed out. 10% sales offices plantations reduction in specific solid waste landfilled 12 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Accolades in 2015 Global Europe North America South Africa We were included in the FTSE/JSE: Innovation in Specialty Papers Award finalist in In October 2014, we won two categories in the Sappi was recognised as a top-ten finalist in • Responsible Investment Index, and the 2015 Pulp and Paper International awards. 2014 PPI awards: Managing Risk and Safety the 2014 Massmart Environmental Awards, • Responsible Investment Top 30 Index. and Mill Manager of the Year awards. The 2015 designed to promote responsible environmental PPI awards were announced on 28 September practices in Massmart’s supply chain. These indices replace the JSE SRI Index. 2015 and our Cloquet Mill Manager was a finalist in the Mill Manager of the Year award. Sunday Times Best Green Companies Award. We achieved a score of 99 in the 2015 Carbon Disclosure Project for disclosure and were The 2015 promotion, Haptic Brain, Haptic placed in performance band C. Brand: A Communicator’s Guide to the Neuroscience of Touch, won the sixth-annual Positively Print award, co-sponsored by the Graphic Arts Show Company and Two Sides North America. The research component of the Abashintshi community project received a gold quill from the International Association of Business Communicators (IABC). Our Marketing Communications Director was recognised by the OutputLinks Communications Group as a Woman of Distinction for 2015. Lomati Sawmill won the Kruger Lowveld Chamber of Business and Tourism’s Large Business Enterprise Award. 13 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Winning with Sappi papers and boards Made with Algro Design Made with Fusion Topliner Our papers and boards give DFTA Awards designers and converters who use them, a winning edge. Hans Kolb Wellpappe won the Corrugated board/Flexo postprint category at the German Flexographic Technical Association (DFTA) awards for their AEG Electrolux packaging Pro Carton Awards printed on Fusion, Sappi´s topliner for corrugated board packaging. Advertising agency Leo Burnett was a finalist in the non-food category of the Pro Carton Awards for their packaging design for ITEM m6, printed on Algro Design. The packs can be opened like books and are easy to close again with a click. Soft-touch varnish gives a satin impression. The product can be used flexibly at Point of Sale and can be presented both suspended and standing. Pro Carton/ECMA Award 2014 CD Cartondruck (Germany) used Algro Design to develop the winning entry — Issey Miyake’s Pleats Please L’Élixir ladies perfume — in the Made with Algro Design Beauty & Cosmetics category of the Pro Carton/ ECMA Award 2014. 14 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References megatrend an interconnected future Stakeholders To realise our vision and strategy, we have to rethink our value chains, forge new partnerships and develop new networking behaviours. Connecting flexibly to one another, to better share knowledge and innovative ideas… 15 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Stakeholder engagement ia ed Go – M Customers ve ty r nm ci e so en t vil Ci Employees C s er om pli mu Sup nit ies Unions Investors Proactive, constructive stakeholder engagement is at the heart of our drive Industry bodies to integrate sustainability into our everyday business processes. 16 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships Building relationships with stakeholders in a Our principles of stakeholder engagement Strategic shift spirit of trust and mutual respect enables more tangible business value creation: by Our approach to engagement with all stakeholder As a global business, with our products sold understanding stakeholder rights, needs and groupings is based on the principles of: into more than 100 countries, our ability to expectations; integrating their inputs; as well • Materiality Identifying the material concerns connect with stakeholders as One Sappi, as measuring and monitoring our activities; so of stakeholder groupings. motivated by our revised mission, strategy and as to ensure alignment with our strategic goals. • Relevance Focusing on those issues of shared values, gives us a clear advantage and material concern to our stakeholders and for our stakeholders a connection they can trust Recognising the strong link between stakeholder to Sappi and identifying how best to address to add value. inclusiveness and materiality, we use stakeholder them for our mutual benefit. engagement as a tool to assist in the identification • Completeness Understanding the views, and prioritisation of material issues. Materiality needs, performance expectations and takes into account substantial economic, perceptions associated with these material environmental and social factors in addition to issues and assessing them against prevailing financial factors. local and global trends. • Responsiveness Engaging with stakeholders We engage with By determining our most material issues through on these issues and giving regular, those stakeholders stakeholder engagement, we clarify and confirm comprehensive, coherent feedback. the strategic themes that pertain to our most who have the most significant risks and opportunities and manage Sappi’s main stakeholder groupings, detailed material impact on expectations and priorities, thereby facilitating in our stakeholder engagement policy, are set our ability to our licence to operate, enhancing our out across pages 18 to 33 together with organisational effectiveness and ultimately, selected examples of engagement undertaken implement our driving the long-term success of our business. during the reporting period. business strategy and achieve our We engage with a broad range of stakeholders through a variety of formal and informal channels goals, as well as — from ongoing engagement across all our those who are most stakeholder groupings, including investors; affected by our government, industry bodies, customers; communities and NGOs; to collective public activities. meetings with stakeholders by our mills, as well as surveys of selected groups such as employees, customers and investors and audits with suppliers. We view stakeholder engagement not as a onceoff annual intervention but as an ongoing dynamic process able to respond to the changing nature of issues of interested and affected parties. 17 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Employees Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement We will continue to invest in future talent while Management engagement Training challenging our people so that they are able to We encourage full engagement between • Ongoing training and development initiatives, seize the opportunities presented by a changing managers and their staff. training targets in each region, and global environment. • Targeted training and engagement Our group and regional Chief Executive Officers programmes in each region regarding We make resources available to enable our engage with staff through regular site visits, sustainability. people to grow intellectually, fulfil their potential road-shows, presentations and discussions. and bring new ideas to fruition. Recognition and award Unions have formal channels through which • Global Areas of mutual interest they engage with management. • Technical Innovation Award • Chief Executive Officer Award for • Strategy, priorities and performance of the Suggestion lines exist at some facilities. Excellence company • Europe • Internal and external activities of the Engagement fora • The annual Coryphaena outstanding company, our staff and our communities Meetings, committees and fora enable direct achievement award • Organisational developments, particularly two-way communications and include: • North America in respect of restructuring • Operating unit meetings, briefings and • Quarterly Risk Taking and Ingenuity • Ongoing training and skills development workshops awards • Creation of a dynamic and encouraging • Various forums in South Africa • South Africa environment through a focus on safety, • National Employment Equity and Learning • Excellence in Achievement Awards (EAA). health, wellness and recognition programmes Forum • Commitment to sustainability, and • Shop Steward Forum, and Other communications tools • Group values and Code of Ethics. • Partnership Forum • Global, regional and local newsletters • Transformation Steering Committee • Our Global Intranet, and • Global Employee Engagement Survey — • Letters, brochures, videos, posters, every alternate year screensavers etc. • Wellbeing committees at mills and business units, and • Health and safety committees at mills. Berry Wiersum — 2020Vision staff briefing. 18 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Employees continued Key issues and engagement in 2015 Value add One Sappi Training Sustainability • Greater levels of employee engagement After a review of the company’s strategy by the Globally, average FY2015 training spend per We have sustainability ambassadors in Europe • Alignment with our strategic direction Group Executive Committee, the group Chief employee amounted to US$644. and North America. enables our people to contribute more Executive Officer in August 2015 launched the positively to the business and their personal group’s revised strategy as well as new mission, Europe We continued to drive the Sappi South Africa Our employees have access to and career development vision and value statements. Taken together Performance Engine focusing on embedding the Earthkind Agent eLearning game which the • Engaged employees are pivotal to the these elements provide the group’s targets for of the PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, Act) mindset public can access via an App for iPad and success of our business 2020, the strategic actions to achieve these across the business. Android tablets. The game exposes players to • Enhanced productivity and ability to service targets as well as the value system setting out Sappi’s sustainability information on a new, global markets how the targets are to be achieved. They also Europe We rolled out a new Eco-effectiveness innovative platform. To date, almost 800 of our • Build our human capital, helping to enable enable the group, which has a wide geographic campaign, which, in part, involves the telling of employees have played the game. delivery of our 2020Vision, and footprint, to better coordinate efforts and act personal stories of our people demonstrating • Build a base of the technical skills needed as one company. their personal commitment to sustainability. This Safety by our industry. approach has helped to migrate sustainability, The Lost Time Injury Frequency rate continued The roll out of this initiative was supported by as a concept, throughout the business. to decline year-on-year, despite three tragic a robust communications campaign which contractor fatalities in South Africa, which we included desk drops of relevant communication North America We continued with our EDGE deeply regret. material, posters, letters and articles in both (Enhancing Development and Growth through global and local newsletters. Engagement) and LEADS (Leadership Excellence Brand integrity and Development) programmes. Our brand ambassadors in South Africa, and Values the Regional Communications Managers in In December 2015, we will begin a process of North America A as a result of several new Europe and North America are tasked with reinforcing and entrenching the values through collective bargaining agreements, more than ensuring in-house brand integrity. focus-group sessions with all employees. This 1,110 of the company’s hourly employees will will be integrated, where possible, with feedback transition from a low deductible to a high sessions on the Global Employee Engagement deductible health plan at the beginning of 2016. Survey conducted in September 2015. The new plan includes a health savings-account feature, with a contribution from the company Global Employee Engagement Survey to partially offset the higher deductible. We are The 2015 Global Employee Engagement Survey rolling out an education campaign with respect was conducted during September 2015. to this change. Initial indicators point to a global participation South Africa Many of our high-potential rate of 73%, which is 1% more than in 2013. employees participated in the Sappi Leadership Academy. We also operate bursary programmes The results are in the process of being collated and Engineers in Training and Foresters in by the service provider. Training programmes, and support FET (Further Education and Training) colleges. The Earthkind Agent eLearning game, available to the public, exposes players to our sustainability information. 19 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Unions Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement Key issues and engagement in 2015 Given today’s extremely challenging global Europe Negotiations occur at the various Overall, FY2015 was characterised by amicable, We successfully concluded wage negotiations economic conditions and the current sociocountry and industry-specific Collective Labour but tough, negotiations and relatively good without industrial action in all sectors: Forestry, economic dynamics in the South African labour Associations, and the contract terms range from relationships with organised labour across the Pulp and Paper and Sawmilling. market, we prioritise our relationship with our 1-2 years. The labour framework in Europe regions. employees and their representatives. Protecting consists of Works Councils and collective labour A collective bargaining-process review is the right to freedom of association and collective agreements and differs from country to country. Europe Our Chief Executive Officer and Human currently underway. This is to establish whether bargaining are fundamental to the manner in Resource Director attended biannual union South Africa should continue to be part of the which Sappi does business. North America The majority of our hourly meetings. The main purpose of these meetings central – or industry-based wage negotiations employees ­ — generally production unit is to inform and consult on business results, in this chamber, or revert back to company – or Globally, approximately 63% of our workforce employees — are represented by the United market developments and pan-European plant-level negotiations, given the complexity is represented by unions, with 69% covered by Steelworkers (USW) union. Employees are also organisational topics. of a central process. collective bargaining agreements. represented by various craft, guard and railroad unions. In this region, labour agreements are North America We settled labour agreements We formally consulted with all recognised trade usually for three years. with the majority of our hourly production unions regarding the sale of Cape Kraft and Areas of mutual interest workers through negotiations with the United Enstra Mills. South Africa Our wage negotiations with Steelworkers (USW) union at the Westbrook, In addition to meeting with local union leadership recognised trade unions take place at the Pulp Cloquet and Somerset Mills on economic terms These consultations were in accordance with for the purposes of remuneration, working and Paper and Sawmilling Chambers under the consistent with the industry. sections 189 and 197 of the Labour Relations hours, and other conditions of service as well auspices of the Bargaining Council for the Wood Act 66 of 1995, as amended respectively. as resolving grievances, the company relies on and Paper Sector. Our agreements are generally South Africa Our engagement structures were local unions to help with safety and wellness annual. reviewed and a new recognition and threshold Consulting parties reached consensus to use initiatives, as well as various forms of community agreement was concluded with the majority the combination of voluntary severance outreach. We also engage on broader issues with the union, the Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, packages and redeployment to other South recognised trade unions at the National Wood and Allied Workers Union (CEPPWAWU). African business units, as mitigating factors to Employment Equity and Skills Development This agreement regulates the relationship with avoid or minimise forced retrenchments. Forum, the Shop Steward Forum and the the Union and most importantly sets the criteria Partnership Forum. for any new trade union wishing to claim for organisational rights at any of our operations Value add or business units. The other recognised trade 63 % of our workforce is unions, which are party to the Bargaining Council for the Wood and Paper Sector, are also covered by this agreement and enjoy certain organisational • Meaningful engagement on a number of issues affecting both business and employees rights where they have membership. • Improved relationships represented by unions • More stable labour force, and We developed and adopted a new engagement • Enhanced productivity. and dialogue framework that clearly defines the terms of reference for these engagement structures, at national and business unit level. 20 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Communities Sappi North America, Somerset Mill — engaging with communities through mill visits. Management approach Global Ongoing avenues of engagement South Africa Ongoing avenues of engagement Having a mutually respectful relationship with There are various formats of community Local farmer and community forums regarding the communities within which our businesses engagement meetings held by our mills in the our forestry communities in South Africa. are situated is critical to our success. regions where they operate. These range from broad liaison forums for business, local We work with local government and communities We work to incorporate the communities close government and communities to legally to accelerate afforestation in the northern region to our operations into our journey of intentional mandated environmental forums which form of the Eastern Cape. This allows Sappi to secure evolution, which recognises the importance of part of the licensing conditions of mills. valuable hardwood timber resources close to conserving natural resources, uplifting people Saiccor Mill in KwaZulu-Natal. so that they are well positioned to thrive in our We also engage with local communities through increasingly inter-connected world. support of and sponsorship for local events and In addition to our own plantations we continue initiatives and we encourage employees to to identify ways to ensure access to pulpwood Social projects are reviewed on a case-by-case participate in outreach and community projects. in the wood baskets close to key operations, basis and we encourage projects that facilitate by means of land or timber delivery swaps. partnerships and collaboration between communities, government and the private sector. Areas of mutual interest Key issues discussed on a regular basis include: • water usage and quality • effluent quality • air emissions • employment • job creation • business opportunities • economic and social impacts • contributions and community support. 21 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Communities continued Europe Key issues and engagement in 2015 Internships Alfeld Mill Connecting with education Gratkorn Mill Public consultation Kirkniemi Mill Safety promotion We have established extensive internship Alfeld Mill is closely connected with schools and In the first half of 2015, Gratkorn Mill undertook In an effort to promote work safety in the Lohja programmes at our all our mills. Kirkniemi Mill universities. The Managing Director of the mill the rebuilding of their liquor boiler. Six months area, Kirkniemi Mill challenged local companies offers training material for schools and all mills is also a member of local county committees, before the start of work on the site, the project to improve work place safety through a host schools on mill tours. staying connected to other industry team invited neighbours from the area to an competition. The Lohja city and local Member representative and politicians. information session about the build. They kept of Parliament supported the initiative which Paper sponsorships in regular contact with neighbours throughout, succeeded in raising awareness about safety All mills offer paper and financial sponsorships Ehingen Mill Recognising 625 years distributing leaflets and organising a celebratory in the work place. to local schools, sport and hobby clubs, forest In 2015, the German paper industry celebrated barbecue at the end, to which partner companies industry students, local safety and environmental its 625th anniversary. To mark this occasion, involved in the project were also invited. Lanaken and Maastricht Mills Open house organisations. We also support local charities. Sappi’s Ehingen Mill opened its doors to the Both Maastricht and Lanaken Mills organise public with a series of monthly mill days which Gratkorn Mill Running event open house activities every three to five years Partnering with communities included guided tours and presentations. In June 2015, the third edition of the Gratkorn whereby local residents are invited to the mills Active corporate citizenship programmes Mill running event took place. The initiative has to try out papermaking. The open house relevant to the needs of the communities where Ehingen Mill Student engagement been a great opportunity to experience the mill programme also involves safety-related activities we operate ensure that we promote socioThroughout the year, the mill actively engages from a different perspective (the running track and initiatives related being ‘green’. The mills economic development in these communities. in the community by giving job presentations is safeguarded by our fire brigade). The event, also provide local societies with paper While each mill takes a different approach, to school children and inviting students to which is open to employees, relatives, friends sponsorships. ongoing engagement is a common denominator. participate in mill tours. and neighbours, usually attracts around 200 participants. Stockstadt Mill Ihr Nachbar Further details of community activities can be Ehingen Mill Sport The Stockstadt Mill produces a biannual mill found in our regional Sustainability Report. They also sponsor local sports events with paper Kirkniemi Mill Community engagement magazine — Ihr Nachbar (Your Neighbour) — for brochures. Kirkniemi Mill holds regular meetings with which is distributed to every resident in neighbouring communities to give them mill Stockstadt and Mainaschaff, the city across The mill has a running team who participate in updates. Family members of employees, from the mill on the other side of the river Main. the annual Ulm marathon. together with local residents are also invited to The magazine aims to keep local communities the annual Global Safety Awareness Day at the informed about mill-related topics. In 2015, Sappi supported a group of Eritrean mill. These events have proved to be very runners, who are also asylum seekers, popular. welcoming them to their team and providing them with running gear. In addition, Sappi school ambassadors make it their business to visit local schools to them about professions in forest and paper industry. 22 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Communities continued North America South Africa Global Key issues and engagement in 2015 Key issues and engagement in 2015 Value add We have long-term relationships with intern and • Enhance our licence to operate co-op programmes and offer positions that give • Promote socio-economic development undergraduate and graduate students work which could in the long term, lead to experience at our mills and the Westbrook increased demand for our products, and Technology Centre. • Initiate real social mobilisation and change for the better. In addition to hosting interns, we also held a We determined the success of a community • Work with each community in terms of the two-day Career Academy at which students engagement programme launched in 2014 to Asset–based Community Development interacted with Sappi employees in finance, improve relations and better understand (ABCD) concept. ABCD focuses on customer service, inside sales, research, community development needs with selected appreciating and mobilising individual and production, information technology and human forestry communities in the southern region of community talents, skills and assets (rather resources. KwaZulu-Natal. than focusing on problems and needs) and most importantly, it is a community-driven We also hosted a camp where Somerset Mill The Abashintshi (the ‘changers’ in Zulu) training process rather than a programme driven by employees introduced high school students to programme involved training two young people external parties or agencies. The aim is to engineering roles. from each of the nine communities selected in get each community to identify their own our pilot programme. These community change– assets and to mobilise internally. A pilot Further details of community activities can be agents received one week of skills training and ABCD project in 2014 proved to be extremely found in our regional Sustainability Report. development each month, with a view to sharing successful. During 2015 the programme the training with their peers. made over 900 contacts and a further 60 projects have been activated. Key to the programme is the engagement with • Launch Ifa Lethu — a legacy project whereby youth, as we had previously engaged primarily the elderly in the community will document with traditional leaders and councillors. their heritage and the lessons learned will be transferred to the youth in the life skills The Abashintshi were charged with implementing project. More than 880 people participated. four key projects during 2015: • Establish school holiday programmes. The • Implement a youth life-skills project (various first was held in July 2015, attended by modules dealing with decision making and 1,500 children. choices, amongst others). The programme reached 1,800 youth across nine Further details of community activities can be communities. found in our regional Sustainability Report. 23 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Customers Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement We adopt a partnership approach, whereby we The group follows an approach of regular develop long-term relationships with global, engagement with customers by senior and regional and local customers. We also executive management in support of the ongoing accommodate more transactional customers. engagement by the relevant sales and marketing teams. We offer customers innovative products and high levels of service that enable them to meet In North America we also meet annually with the needs of the rapidly changing world of the Sappi Merchant Association. tomorrow. We also review our go-to-market strategy where relevant to ensure that we align Global Sappi Southern Africa, Technology Centre, Pretoria. In response to a growing demand for products derived from biodegradable our interests and the interests of our end-users. Targeted communication campaigns help to natural resources, our R&D is focused on extracting additional value from the woodfibre we use to make paper. promote the value of paper-based communication Ongoing avenues of engagement — Technical support Where relevant, we will also conduct R&D and and support the efforts of marketers and develop products to suite the specific needs of communicators in their search for responsible a customer. choices. Examples include support for the: Global Specialised Cellulose • Two Sides organisations in Europe, North A series of technical brochures is available on Technical Centres of Excellence are located at America, South America, South Africa and our website www.sappi.com. Saiccor and Cloquet Mills. Areas of mutual interest Australia, and • Print Power campaign in Europe. We annually host customer and investor visits Speciality papers • High service levels to the mills. Following the completion of the US$69 million • Information and campaigns to promote print Trade shows and exhibitions upgrade of PM2 at Alfeld Mill in 2013, the mill as a communication medium We participate in various tradeshows and Europe and South Africa has now become a Sappi Centre of Excellence • Information and campaigns to promote exhibitions, detailed in the ‘Prosperity’-section We publish Paper Profiles and information for speciality papers. In 2015, we expanded the paper and paper packaging of this report. sheets for our papers. These give details Competence Centre for Speciality Papers at • Provision of technical information and regarding the composition of our papers, as the mill with a new Paper Laboratory. support to our paper and specialised Education well as key environmental parameters related cellulose (SC) customers Online, print education and technical platforms to our pulp and paper production processes Casting release papers • Information about organisational include: and information on environmental management These products are primarily used to impart developments, and the fibre sourcing and • Europe The Sappi Houston online systems and woodfibre sourcing policies. texture on other decorative surfaces such as production processes behind our brands, knowledge platform synthetic fabrics and laminates. Our paper is and • North America Environmental Quotient (eQ) North America part of the production process, not the final • New products that meet rapidly changing Education, Training and Consulting (etc), We use GreenBlue®’s Environmental Performance product, and is designed for multiple re-use. market demand. and Assessment Tool (EPAT) which enables buyers • South Africa Our paper and paper pulp to evaluate our performance on a mill-by-mill Scientists at our Westbrook Technology Centre product offerings are supported by strong basis. constantly look for ways to improve release technical teams at each mill and the paper products so that reuse is maximised, with Technology Centre in Pretoria. many of our release grades providing customers dozens of reuse cycles. 24 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Customers continued Our Eco-effectiveness campaign tells the stories of our people demonstrating their personal commitment to sustainability. Global Europe Key issues and engagement in 2015 Key issues and engagement in 2015 Disclosure Nordic Ecolab certification Sustainability ambassadors WeForest We participated in the CDP Supply Chain survey Kirkniemi, Gratkorn, Maastricht, Ehingen and We launched a sustainability ambassador We encouraged customers to help support the and the Forest Footprint Disclosure survey at Alfeld Mills (SBS only) were awarded the Nordic programme at our sales offices. forestry rehabilitation charity WeForest. the request of some of our customers. Ecolab certification status. Sappi Football Cup Trade shows Ecolabel certification We held the sixth annual Sappi Football Cup, Examples of trade shows where we showcased Kirkniemi, Maastricht, Gratkorn and Ehingen which challenges our customers to show their our packaging papers from Europe and North Mills achieved EU Ecolabel certification status. skills in table football. Participating countries America include: were: Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, • Labelexpo Eco-effectiveness campaign Germany, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Serbia, Brussels, 29 September – 02 October 2015 We rolled out a new Eco-effectiveness campaign. Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and the • FachPack Part of the campaign involves personal stories United Kingdom. Qualifying matches follow the Nuremberg, 29 September – 01 October from our people demonstrating their commitment rules issued by the International Table Soccer 2015 to sustainability stories in which they have Federation. Three winning teams won a ticket demonstrated their personal commitment in to the UEFA Champions League Final in Berlin their field. This approach has helped to bring on 06 June 2015. the concept of sustainability from management levels and board room meetings to the shop floor while enabling us to also engage with our customers on these topics. 25 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Customers continued We add value to our customers’ business by meeting their needs — providing quality products with enhanced environmental profiles. North America South Africa Global Key issues and engagement in 2015 Key issues and engagement in 2015 Value add New packaging group The Standard Gold Pack Awards • Meet customers’ needs for products with We launched a dedicated packaging group in We completed the sixth edition of our ‘The In October 2014 we were a primary sponsor of an enhanced environmental profile North America and in Europe and North America, Standard’-series on binding techniques and held the graphic design category in the Student Gold • Promote our customers’ own sustainability also launched a number of new products. workshops beginning in April on this new material. Pack Awards held under the auspices of the journeys Institute of Packaging SA. • Heightened awareness of the importance Sustainability Customer Council Haptics of sustainability Our Sustainability Customer Council continued We developed new print collateral on Trade shows • Keep abreast of market developments to provide valuable input on emerging issues. The neuroscience and the haptics (science of touch) We exhibited at Propak Africa, a prestigious • Meet customers’ needs Council comprises Sappi customers, representing of paper. The piece features case studies from packaging exhibition in Cape Town. • Showcase our products, and multiple customer segments of the coated papers Apple, BMW and WWF on how they used • Demonstrate the power of print. and casting release papers business, including haptics to enhance communications. We In September 2015, we presented a paper on merchants, printers, publishers, corporate paper enlisted a leading neuroscientist to present this artificial and intelligent packaging and exhibited buyers and graphic designers. collateral at a series of conference events at the Packaging and Labelling Expo in starting in May and continuing throughout the Johannesburg. Check-off Board remainder of the year and into 2016. The Paper and Paper-based Packaging Checkoff Board, to which Sappi belongs, launched Trade shows Examples of trade shows where the US$20 million How Life Unfolds™ consumer we showcased our packaging papers from campaign. The cross-platform campaign is Europe and North America include: • Pack Expo designed to slow the decline in paper usage Las Vegas, 28-30 September 2015 • Graph and grow demand for packaging. Expo Chicago, 13-16 September 2015. 26 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Industry bodies Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement We partner with industry and business bodies Sappi is a member of various industry and Global TAPPI South Africa to provide input into issues and regulations that business associations in each region. Sappi, as a significant sponsor, supported • PAMSA — Paper Manufacturers’ Association affect and are relevant to our businesses and TAPPI, the Technical Association of the Pulp of South Africa industries. Global Two Sides and Paper Industry, to celebrate its technical • Business Unity South Africa Two Sides — a global graphics communications and scientific contributions to the pulp and • Manufacturing Circle We also support and partner with industry industry forum — works to dispel myths about paper industry over the past 100 years. • Forestry South Africa initiatives aimed at promoting the use of our the environmental impact of print, paper and products. paper packaging and promote the sustainability Through our membership of the Manufacturing credentials of the industry: Circle, we support the Buy Back South Africa • Sappi Europe is a member of Two Sides campaign launched in November 2013 to Areas of mutual interest Europe promote support for locally manufactured • Sappi North America is a founding member products. • Issues that affect the sustainability of our of Two Sides US Europe industry: • woodfibre base • carbon taxes • Sappi Southern Africa supported the launch • CEPI — Confederation of European Paper South Africa — Forestry • energy • emissions et al of the local Two Sides campaign in 2014, Industries Sappi Forests is a founding member of the Tree • Energy issues in general and in particular and • Eurograph Protection Co-operative Programme (TPCP) government proposals on carbon taxation • Sappi Trading serves on the Brazilian Two • The Alliance of Energy-Intensive industries based in the Forestry and Bio-technical Institute • The impact of increased regulations on Sides Council. • The Two Team Project — focusing on at the University of Pretoria. business breakthrough technology concepts in the • The benefits of our industry and our industry which could enable a more Through the TPCP we are also members of the economic contribution to society, and competitive future internationally collaborative Biological Control • Social and environmental credentials of our • European Joint Undertaking on Bio-based of Eucalyptus Pests (BiCEP) programme. products. Industries • Print Power and Two Sides BiCEP is based at the Australian Centre for Industrial and Agricultural Research (ACIAR). North America • AF & PA — American Forests and Paper We also belong to the Eucalyptus Genome Association Network (EUCAGEN) based at the University of • Paper and Paper Packaging Board Pretoria and to CAMCORE, an international, • Agenda 2020 Technology Alliance non-profit organisation dedicated to the • SPC — Sustainable Packaging Coalition conservation and utilisation of subtropical and • Forest Products Working Group tropical tree species. 27 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Industry bodies continued In support of our own research, Sappi Forests in South Africa actively engages with several international scientific bodies, including the Eucalyptus Genome Network (EUCAGEN). Key issues and engagement in 2015 Value add Global Carbon taxes and energy Europe South Africa • Sappi is able to create and launch new Our engagement processes as regards carbonIn Europe, through our industry body CEPI, the We have engaged the National Treasury via our products which already meet Sustainable related taxes and energy issues in each region Confederation of European Paper Industries, industry representative, PAMSA, the Paper Packaging Coalition (SPC) criteria, which is and the outcomes thereof in 2015 are detailed we put forward our view that sufficient carbon Manufacturers Association of South Africa, to beneficial to us on a cost basis and a on pages 51 to 52 of this report. leakage protection for industry is essential, motivate the carbon tax design to incorporate sustainability basis especially for sectors that want to invest in low rebates for carbon sequestration. • Maintain and expand markets for our Global World Forestry Congress carbon technologies in Europe. products In September 2015, Sappi representatives The problem of infection and pest control on • Demonstrate the value-add of the forest attended the World Forestry Congress which North America our plantations is becoming increasingly products industry, and is held every six years and used the opportunity In North America, we continued to engage on challenging. To this end, our researchers • Dispel myths and promote understanding to engage at a high level and to showcase: issues like emissions and carbon taxes. engaged with a number of experts in this field. of our industry. • Project Grow, our South African enterprise development initiative. We sponsored the attendance of a number of Project Grow beneficiaries • Sappi’s technical expertise by sharing their expertise and best practice with international peers, and • We participated in the Forest Dialogue workshop where discussions were around the scoping of a dialogue on intensively managed planted forests and in a special stakeholder meeting with the FSC® where we discussed the implementation of the FSC®’s new strategy. 28 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Investors Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement Key issues and engagement in 2015 Our aim is to provide investors (shareholders Investor relations team Face-to-face In 2015, we were included in the FTSE/JSE: and bondholders) and analysts with transparent, Our investor relations (IR) team engages with Our Chairman engages with shareholders on • Responsible Investment Index, and timely, relevant communication that facilitates shareholders and analysts on an ongoing basis. relevant issues. • Responsible Investment Top 30 Index. informed decisions. This team has direct access to the executive Shareholders can attend and participate in the We scored 99C in the Carbon Disclosure Project. directors and any issues shareholders raise that AGM as well as the four quarterly financial results Areas of mutual interest would be relevant for the board are channelled briefings. Our engagement with environment, sustainability through the IR team. and governance (ESG) managers from investors • Information on the company strategy Our Chief Financial Officer and Head of Treasury and analyst companies increased during the • Return on investment, and Formal communications engage with bondholders, banks and rating course of 2015. • Transparent information about risks, We issue announcements through Stock agencies on an ongoing basis regarding the opportunities and ESG (Environmental, Exchange News Services (SENS), in the press performance of the company. Social and Governance) performance. and on our website www.sappi.com. We conduct ad hoc mill visits and road shows. Value add We publish an Annual Integrated Report and a group and three regional Sustainability Reports, • Understanding of our strategic direction available on the company website. • Enhanced reputation • Greater investment confidence, and We participate in the Carbon Disclosure and • Broader licence to invest. Forest Footprint Disclosure projects every year. Sappi Annual Integrated Report 2015 Sappi Europe Sustainability Report 2015 Sappi North America Sustainability Report 2015 Sappi Southern Africa Sustainability Report 2015 Sappi Europe Sustainability Report 2015 Sappi Southern Africa Sustainability Report 2015 Printed on Magno™ satin 150g/m2 and 250g/m2. 2013 Sappi Europe SA Intentional evolution 29 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Suppliers and contractors In South Africa, our nurseries supply our own plantations with quality pine an eucalypt seedlings. We give seedlings to Project Grow tree farmers free of charge. Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement We are committed to establishing mutually Fibre certification North America Certified fibre supply South Africa Project Grow respectful relationships with our suppliers and In addition to Sappi’s internal woodfibre Our ongoing forest management services and Launched in 1983, Project Grow, a tree-farming encouraging them to join our commitment to certification efforts, we promote certification supplier outreach programmes help to increase scheme that gives subsistence farmers the the 3Ps and to creating an environment that amongst our suppliers and outside our own certified lands in areas that supply fibre to our opportunity to participate in the forestry industry, shares our commitment to doing business with operations: mills. We were the first pulp and paper company creates sustainable livelihoods in rural areas, integrity and courage, making smart decisions • In North America and South Africa, our in North America to be granted a group forest fosters economic growth and entrepreneurship. which we execute with speed. foresters work extensively with contractors management certificate by the FSC®. Small Growers range from small individual growers to and communities, and landowners who agree to become a member larger community projects. We aim to build long term value partnerships. • In Europe a joint sourcing partnership has of Sappi North America’s forest management been established with SCA which assists group have their land certified in accordance to We have expanded Project Grow beyond the We work with our contractors to ensure that in negotiating better terms with timber and the FSC® standard under this certificate. Our borders of KwaZulu-Natal province to the they follow Sappi safety systems and rules. other suppliers. Sustainable Forestry Programme assists Eastern Cape. In addition, we are working with woodlot owners in the State of Maine to develop communities in the Eastern Cape to help them plans for managing and harvesting woodlands. obtain water-use licences for the establishment Areas of mutual interest of new plantations. • Transparent information We are active in land reform, assisting several • Forest certification land reform beneficiaries (communities) with the • Increased value and decreased costs, and management of their plantations, and have • Security of fibre supply, income generation signed supply agreements with 34 land reform/ and job creation. restitution projects. 30 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Suppliers and contractors continued We provide private woodlot owners (North America) and smalland community-growers (South Africa) with extension services (technical support). Key issues and engagement in 2015 Value add Code of ethics alignment North America Sustainable Forestry South Africa Certified fibre supply • Improve supplier relations Contracts contain the requirement for vendors Our Sustainable Forestry Programme comprises We have established a group scheme for small • Better understanding of the requirements to adhere to the Sappi Code of Ethics and core a team of trained forest professionals, including and medium growers with plantations ranging of the Sappi group values. licensed foresters, dedicated to assisting from a few hundred hectares to well over • Security of woodfibre supply, and woodlot owners in the State of Maine develop, 10,000ha in size. • Expanded basket of certified fibre. manage and harvest their woodlands. FSC® certification is not yet available to micro Services offered include: growers; largely because of administrative and • Help with timber harvests to meet landowner financial constraints. objectives and maximise returns • Development of forest management plans, Under the auspices of Forestry South Africa, and we are evaluating ways of overcoming these • Assistance with wildlife management and barriers; it may take another two years to be aesthetics. established. South Africa Project Grow South Africa Supporting small business A team of qualified extension officers works with We are developing a framework and methodology our Project Grow suppliers to offer advice. for a value chain incubator/accelerator programme targeted at small-, mediumand micro enterprises. Our overall aim is to accelerate and diversify opportunities within the forestry value chain. The programme is being developed with input from our current contractor base. 31 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Civil society Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement Key issues and engagement in 2015 Value add We maintain an open relationship with the We join key credible organisations as members. South Africa The Centre for Environmental • Opportunity to inform and educate media, media, believing that an informed media is better We develop personal relationships and engage Rights (CER) accused 20 companies, of which and able to serve public reporting and debate on on an ongoing basis. Sappi was one, of non-compliance with • Transparent, two-way communication and any issue. environmental legislation based on their review opportunity for dialogue. We provide support to and sponsorship for key of information contained in the National We continue to update the media regarding our organisations on issues of mutual interest. Environmental Compliance and Enforcement strategic shifts to extract value from woodfibre Reports (NECER) of the Environmental in line with future trends. Europe and North America In both these Management Inspectorate (EMI) of the regions, we maintain close engagement directly Department of Environment Affairs (DEA). We engage with civil society organisations on and through our industry body CEPI and the Sappi’s response to the findings of the CER can issues of mutual interest FSC® and WWF International. be found on the CER website. We are members of key organisations relevant Europe In addition to engaging CEPI, we also Sappi has taken note of the comments of the to our operations. engage through the PEFC™ — Programme for CER and for increased transparency we will the Endorsement of Forest Certification™. align our reporting to any mentions in the NECER. We continue to engage with authorities Areas of mutual interest North America We are a member of the regarding all issues of environmental compliance. economic chamber of both FSC® US and SFI® • Business developments — we actively engage with these organisations In the recently published 2014/15 NECER • The future of our industry through a variety of working groups and (National Environmental Compliance and • Our impacts on our communities, and committee activities. Enforcement Report) of the Environmental • Our work to protect the environment. Management Inspectorate (EMI) of the South Africa W ­ e are a member of the local Department of Environment Affairs (DEA) of the WWF organisation as well as the FSC®. Government of South Africa, an entry is included which makes reference to an EMI inspection We provide support for the activities of SANBI which took place at Sappi Saiccor Mill during (South African National Biodiversity Institute), September 2014. Birdlife South Africa, WWF South Africa, Honorary Rangers, WESSA, the UCT ADU The entry goes on to state that several non(Animal Demography Unit) tree project and the compliances were identified and an inspection Kruger National Park Warburgia Salutaris report detailing the findings of the inspection project. had been finalised. As fire is a key risk on our plantations, we belong We have not yet received any official report to a number of fire protection associations. resulting from the initial inspection done in 2014 from the EMI or the DEA. 32 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our key relationships — Government and regulatory bodies Management approach Ongoing avenues of engagement Key issues and engagement in 2015 Value add We engage with government departments and Consultations take place on an ongoing basis We engage with governments and regulators Opportunity to promote understanding of the regulatory bodies to provide input into issues with government departments and regulatory in all regions on a regular basis both directly issues and challenges we face and resolve and regulations that affect our industry. bodies in each region. and through our industry associations on a certain challenges. myriad of issues which impact our operations We also engage with regional and local as well as our contributions to and role in local governments and local authorities to obtain communities. In particular, please refer to the support for our operations and show how our discussion of emissions regulations and carbon activities contribute to local economic and social tax on page 51 of this report. development. North America As part of our ongoing obligation in terms of Areas of mutual interest our hydroelectric dam licences to restore fish passage on the Presumpscot River in the State • Energy issues in general and in particular of Maine, we have been engaging with Federal government moves on carbon taxation and state agencies, non-government • The impact of increased regulations on organisations and members of the public business, and concerning the design of the fish passage at • The social and economic benefits of our the Saccarappa hydro facility. industry nationally as well as at a local level. We plan to remove the facility, and have recently filed a surrender application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). As a result of the engagement process, we have made several improvements to the fish passage design. The fish passage at the Saccarappa station must be operational by 01 May 2017. This project is discussed in detail in our Group Sustainability Report 2014. 33 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References megatrend digital economy Key material issues Hyperconnectivity is now the norm. Nothing stays the same for long. 34 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Key material issues overview tion Produc Forestry ar s g Su ins g n Li n ergy e e lo s Bi o vation ll u ce Prod uct Inno Safe ty no t en N a jac Sp ec Ad cel ialis lulo ed ur se bo La Pro ns sp op le atio Grow eri rel Speciality pape Pe Packaging th ty Key rs papers Our Strategy and 2020Vision, our game material issues plan for the medium term, will reinforce CSR pers and reposition Sappi across a number of line c pa Dec core business segments, realise their hi p strategic importance to the group and Gra maximise their significant cash flow contribution — enabling us to evolve the business and develop new opportunities W is ons ood that derive value from nanocellulose, Em Planet re biorefinery products and energy. is fib Key material issues are those challenges r we face in our operating environment that Energ y Wate we believe may have a material impact on our business by affecting the value we create for stakeholders. Climate change 35 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prosperity Declining demand in some of our traditional markets Material issue Declining demand graphic papers In a digitally connected world, information is increasingly consumed on computer screens, mobile phones, tablets and other devices instead of paper. Our response We recognise the graphic papers market is in decline, but maintain that paper is a renewable We will continue to meet the needs of customers who recognise the value of print. and recyclable product that, when manufactured from woodfibre originating in responsibly Sappi Europe, Gratkorn Mill. managed forests and plantations like ours, is an environmentally sustainable, powerful communications medium. Our response — Europe Our response — North America Our response — South Africa In this market segment, we continue to develop In November 2014, we upgraded our Gratkorn In response to the needs of integrated marketers We realigned our operations; concluding the and enhance our portfolio of products to meet Mill’s largest paper machine, PM11 to further who want a competitive advantage, we sales of Enstra and Cape Kraft Mills shortly after the needs of customers who recognise the value improve paper quality and increase the machine’s developed and launched 94 Bright Opus — financial year-end, to focus more intensely on of print. operating capability by expanding the weightstrengthening the Opus sheet line which our core business — virgin fibre-based paper range of paper products it can produce. comprises Opus, Opus PS and Opus DX digital. and paper packaging products and dissolving wood pulp. The Opus range is optically engineered to We are also increasing our offering to our reproduce more colours, making it easier to domestic customers with a range of papers match press sheets to colour proofs. imported from Sappi Europe. The heft and stiffness of Opus papers deliver a These strategic changes have allowed us to higher quality feel than any competitive grade focus more on export markets in line with our at the same basis weight, and can handle tough One Sappi strategy. press room conditions. 36 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References The power of paper… Marketers are returning to print as they recognise the power of making their brands more tangible, turning item-buyers into shoppers. “We remain firm believers in the power of print… Paper offers the power of touch Paper facilitates language development Digital-first companies turning to paper The power of paper is highlighted by a Sappi A compelling body of evidence from high income A growing number of online-only retailers are Print is a concentrated, North America publication and promotion, countries shows that children’s language turning to print to drive traffic to their online intense reading experience Haptic Brain, Haptic Brand: A Communicators development and literacy skills are facilitated platforms (and increase sales). In 2015, onlinewith unique affinity in our Guide to the Neuroscience of Touch which won by book sharing with a care-giver, beginning in only retailers increasingly supported printthe sixth annual Positively Print award. infancy. advertising. Some are launching their own digitally distracted age.” magazines. Examples include: • Luxury onlineThe scientific exploration for this promotion was Paper offers higher levels of retention only retailer, Net-a-Porter, with a monthly online conducted by a leading neuroscientist and audience exceeding six million people, in 170 Robert Thomson specialist in haptics (the science of touch), who Taking notes on laptops rather than in longhand countries, launched, Porter, a bimonthly, pricey Chief Executive Officer extensively researched how different media is increasingly common. Many researchers have fashion magazine. • The Editorialist, a previously News Corp shape perception and how our sense of touch suggested that laptop note taking is less online-only luxury fashion-accessories retailer, impacts our experience with corporate effective than longhand note taking for learning. launched a biannual print spin-off. Others communications and brands. The present research suggests that even when include: Airbnb, the online hospitality exchange, laptops are used solely to take notes, they may CNET, a consumer technology portal with more The research found that paper quality significantly still be impairing learning because their use than one million monthly users and Bonobos. affects viewer response and that tactile results in shallower processing and that students communications, like paper, cause people to who take notes on laptops performed worse Brand managers are citing the need for bringing exhibit a sense of ownership of the objects they on conceptual questions than students who their brands into the physical space that helps read about, influencing buying decisions. took notes longhand. Laptop note takers’ people become more engaged with their brands tendency to transcribe lectures verbatim rather as reasons for the shift. Increasingly, marketers than processing information and reframing it in are recognising that an omni-channels approach their own words is detrimental to learning. is most effective at building brands. News Corp is a global publishing conglomerate. 37 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prosperity Growing demand in some of our market segments Material issue Growing demand for packaging Our response Europe and speciality papers We launched two new speciality products, Algro Algro Sol, our speciality silicone base-papers atelier, a multi-ply folding boxboard broadens In 2012, the global market for paper packaging Thermo and atelier and extended our Fusion range continued to gain acceptance in global Sappi’s offering in terms of both width and depth stood at US$254.8 billion. range. Our speciality Algro Sol silicone basemarkets. An important advantage for converters of coated virgin fibre cartonboards for the papers continued to gain acceptance in global using silicone base-paper is the low silicone packaging market. atelier combines a brightSince 2013, global market for paper packaging markets. consumption achieved with Algro Sol paper white finish with the rigidity and strength required has been growing at a compounded annual grade in the siliconisation process. for functionality with any type of cartonboard growth rate of 4.4%. Algro Thermo, a premium-quality base-paper printing, converting, finishing or post-production for specialist thermal coating offers the option Typical carrier papers currently available on the handling. We successfully launched this product The value of the global paper packaging market to preprint text and images on both sides of the market consume silicone at a rate of 1-1.3g/m². into the South African market. is expected to reach US$344.4 billion by 2019. substrate with high levels of consistency. Algro Sol consumes less than 1g/m² — a 25% Developed for the niche market of on-demand saving. Despite the low silicone consumption, Fusion, which targets the fast food and tickets and available in weights from an extremely homogeneous silicone surface is microflute packaging is now also available in Consumers are becoming increasingly 100-193g/m², Algro Thermo is well suited for a achieved. This ensures excellent removal of the 90g/m2. Fusion is designed specifically for use environmentally aware; more than 75% of wide range of applications, including point-ofself-adhesive films from the siliconised carrier with and on corrugated board and is fully ISEGAconsumers say that environmentally sound sale systems and vouchers and as labels for paper. certified for direct contact with food. packaging has an influence on the beverage shipping and product identification. brand they buy. Our response Global We are targeting earnings from our paper packaging division to be 25% of EBITDA by 2020, up from 18% today. Our coatings expertise gives us a competitive advantage in this market and means that we can easily fulfil requirements for complicated prints, finishes, colours and barrier coatings. Well suited for a wide range of on-demand applications. A speciality silicone base-papers range. Marketing promotion for atelier. 38 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prosperity Growing demand in some of our market segments continued The Paper Lab is equipped with the latest technological capabilities. Sappi Europe, Alfeld Mill has become a Sappi Centre of Excellence for speciality papers. Our response Quality assurance Our response North America Our response South Africa Following the completion of the US$69 million We established a focused packaging division We continued to experience good demand for We also launched Ultratest, a recycled linerboard upgrade of PM2 at Alfeld Mill in 2013, the mill supported by a dedicated sales team. Ultraflute, our new lightweight semi-chemical with superior strength properties. has become a Sappi Centre of Excellence for fluting made with 75% virgin fibre, launched in speciality papers. Building on the success of LusterPrint®, a 2014. The product is used mainly in the industrial We successfully launched atelier, produced by grease-resistant paper used primarily in pet and agricultural sectors. Sappi Europe, into the South African market. In 2015, we expanded the Competence Centre food packaging, we launched LusterCote™ for for Speciality Papers at the mill with a new paper labels and other related end-use applications. laboratory. The Paper Lab will be used to conduct field quality testing with the latest technological capabilities. The laboratory replaces the previously used test line in the climate lab. Its state-of-the-art technology and the broader weight measuring range (18-400g/m2) are worldclass in the quality testing of speciality papers and cartonboards. In operation around the clock, every production Ultraflute batch is subjected to precise measurement to ensure the quality of the batch, thereby guaranteeing our customers a unique level of continuity in our papers and boards. by Ultraflute is used mainly in the industrial and agricultural sectors. 39 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prosperity Growing demand in some of our market segments continued We are working with customers to support common growth. Textiles are the primary market for our DWP. Material issue Our response Global textile-market pressures are affecting pricing of commodity-grade dissolving wood pulp (DWP) Market drivers Sustainability Strategic focus Textiles are the primary market for our DWP The DWP used in our manufacturing operations Our strategic focus in this market segment which is sold globally for use in viscose staple not only gives us a competitive advantage but includes: Commodity-grade prices for DWP are currently fibre (rayon) and solvent spun fibres (lyocell). most importantly, is produced from sustainably • Working with key customers to support low but are showing signs of improving. managed wood sources: common growth We anticipate continued improvement in the • South Africa Applies the chain-of-custody, • Investigating adjacent and profitable endThe recent decline in the price of oil, a feedstock underlying demand drivers. Although demand (CoC) FSC®-certification system, and uses, and for synthetic fabrics, and the current high cotton will always be subject to relative inter-fibre • North America Uses the CoC FSC ®-, • Managing our capacity — our Cloquet Mill reserve stocks in China may continue to pricing dynamics, cellulosic-based fabrics have PEFC™or SFI®-systems. can switch between DWP and paper pulp. negatively impact the price of DWP-based the advantage that they breathe, are comfortable textiles and in turn our DWP. to wear and when incorporated into fabricCertification by these internationally-recognised blends with the wash-and-wear characteristics accreditation organisations provides assurance of petroleum-based fibres, produce clothing that the woodfibre used in our DWP originates with excellent overall properties. in sustainably-managed forests and plantations. Based on global GDP and population growth expectations and increasing affluence, particularly in Asia, we remain confident in this market segment and its continued growth. We continue to supply smaller quantities into the other DWP market segments. 40 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our pulping processes — extracting value from a renewable resource Wood yard Kraft pulping process yields pulp for paper production. Wood chips are cooked under pressure in a sodium hydroxide (NaOH) cooking liquor Digester Rejects can be used as a biofuel. Debarking to create soda pulp or a mixture of NaOH SO42and sodium sulphide (Na2S) cooking liquor to create sulphate pulp. Screening Regular wood pulp is used to make paper. Sulphite pulping process (used at Saiccor Mill) yields dissolving wood pulp. Wood chips are cooked under pressure Digester in a magnesium bisulphite (MgHSO4 ) or calcium bisulphite (CaHSO4 ) cooking liquor. SO32Bisulphites of ammonium or sodium can also be used. Rejects can be used as a biofuel. Chipping Screening Prehydrolysis Kraft (PHK) pulping (used at Ngodwana and Cloquet Mills) yields dissolving wood pulp. Prehydrolysis Bleaching Pulp drying DWP sheets and reels Digester By steaming wood chips in water and raising the SO42temperature, raw materials, not used in the manufacture of DWP, can be extracted. Spent liquor is used as a biofuel. See FAQ: Biofuels energy 41 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prosperity Adjacent business opportunities — extracting additional value from wood Our patented, low-cost nanocellulose production process, uses a unique chemistry that allows chemical recovery. Material issue Nanocellulose Our response Nanocellulose The market for nanocellulose continues to grow, In 2015, we announced our development of a CNF applications Our initial focus driven by the trend towards sustainable, patented, low-cost nanocellulose production Our CNF is derived from a sustainable resource, The pilot plant will be used for market lightweight, biobased products, and possibilities process in conjunction with Edinburgh Napier woodfibre, making it very desirable as a new development and up-scaling. Our initial focus proffered by the material’s exceptional physical University. This process uses a unique chemistry material for various industrial and transport is on: and chemical properties. which easily breaks down wood pulp fibres into applications. • Thickening water-based products such as nanocellulose without producing the large paints, foods and concrete The raw material for nanocellulose, woodfibre, volumes of effluent associated with existing Products produced using Sappi’s CNF will be • Making composites which could replace is abundant. In addition to being lightweight, energy-intensive processes. optimally suitable for: glass fibres in, for example, the next nanocellulose: • Conversion into lighter and stronger fibregeneration of lighter, fuel-efficient vehicles • Has very high tensile strength — eight times As an added advantage, the chemicals used in reinforced composites and plastics and aeroplanes that of steel on a weight-for-weight basis our process can be recycled and reused without • Food and pharmaceutical applications • Producing replacements for plastic films in • Is transparent in its crystalline form generating significant volumes of effluent. • Rheology modifiers, and packaging, and • Gas impermeable, and • Barrier and other paper and coating • Investigating applications including: • Is highly absorbent when used as a base The energy-saving process will be further applications. • Films in lithium batteries for aerogels or foams. developed in a pilot-scale plant at Brightlands • Touch screen displays, and Chemelot Campus in The Netherlands which • Biomedical applications such as wound will test the manufacturing of dry redispersible dressings and regenerative medicine. Cellulose NanoFibrils (CNF). 42 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prosperity Adjacent business opportunities — extracting additional value from wood continued We are well-positioned to extract and beneficiate plantationand forest-derived biocompounds. We are investigating the extraction of biorenewable biochemicals from our pulping streams. Material issue Sugars and lignins Our response Sugars Our response Lignins Material issue Bio-energy The key components of woodfibre include Aligned with our move towards near and We continued to investigate the extraction and Bio-energy, another targeted adjacent business cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin and other adjacent markets, the extraction of sugars from utilisation of lignin from Sappi’s various liquor stream, is discussed in the ‘Planet’-section as extractives. pulping streams to produce biorenewable and waste streams. Working with external part of a discussion about energy. chemicals is currently under investigation. experts, we have embarked on a programme Both cellulose and hemicellulose are to characterise the different lignin sources in polysaccharides containing many different sugar Should it prove commercially viable, we will Sappi and to identify new market opportunities. monomers which can be extracted from pulping develop a pilot-scale plant. streams. South Africa In 2015, we announced a US$8.5 million investment to increase the lignin production capacity at LignoTech South Africa, our joint venture with Borregaard, by 20,000tpa. The added volume will be marketed to the joint venture company’s existing applications and geographical markets. The project is expected to be completed in 2017. South Africa Tugela Mill has been selling lignosulphonate into the dust suppression, concrete additive, ceramic and brick-making markets since 2012. We are now looking into products suitable for biobitumen, adhesives and sealant applications. The mill recently installed drying equipment to reduce transport costs. 43 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prosperity Plantationand forest-derived products are emerging as a global game changer Material issue Innovation As the world increasingly recognises the value of products based on woodfibre, opportunities are opening up to supply products, processes and services based on this renewable, biodegradable natural resource. The world increasingly recognises the value of products based on woodfibre. Hand-sheet of paper, magnified 800 times. Our response R&D Our response Product development R&D Our response Forestry R&D Our research and development (R&D) initiatives In compiling the Exciter II portfolio, the team During FY2015, product development R&D R&D focused on our forestry assets continued focus on: uses an in-house developed risk-assessment focused on: the development of DNA markers for improving • Consolidating and growing our position in to assist with portfolio selection and to rate • Nanocellulose marker-aided selection of wood properties in our targeted markets segments projects on their risk profiles versus potential • Paper-for-plastics — developing paper hardwoods with the establishment of the • Driving cost competitiveness and cost return. The risk assessment rates in-house products that can replace plastic-based required tree breeding populations. reduction, and competencies such as technical knowledge, products • Optimising our equipment and forestry assets, sales, marketing and commercial • Microbial paper coatings that help packaged The introduction of exciting new genetic assets. expertise to take a project from concept to fruit and vegetables last longer, and techniques to link genes and important wood market or to a functioning new business. • Higher-strength packaging. properties, such as cellulose content and lignin We invested US$28 million in R&D in FY2015 type, both of which influence processing which included approximately US$8 million on (pulping) time, allows us to select superior trees our Exciter programme which focuses on core Our response Production focused R&D at a young age, to accelerate our conventional business (Exciter I) and new and adjacent tree breeding initiatives. business (Exciter II). Production focused R&D concentrated on 28million supporting the DWP projects at Ngodwana and We also made progress in establishing useful During FY2015, we redesigned the process for US$ Cloquet Mills — optimising processing conditions genetic markers for disease resistance in our selecting and managing Exciter I and II projects for wood-mixes to enhance cost efficiency. commercial softwoods. to allow for greater involvement of Sappi’s nonFY2015 R&D technical managers, including the managers of investment Sappi’s R&D centres in consultation with the regional manufacturing directors, strategic business development managers, marketing departments and mills in each region. 44 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References People Safety: Ethical imperative and business issue Material issue Safety Ensuring the safety of our people is not only an ethical imperative. It is also a business issue which impacts productivity, costs and reputation. Safety is discussed in detail in the ‘People’section of this report. Management is expected to demonstrate leadership in safety. Sappi Europe, Alfeld Mill, fire drill. Our response Fatalities Our response Responsibility Our response Management We deeply regret the three contractor fatalities Although we expect all our employees and The OHSAS 18001 Safety Management System in South Africa during the year under review. contractors to take responsibility for their own continues to be the foundation and structure We view these fatalities in a very serious light and their colleagues’ safety, management for all operations, with a core element being the and are committed to reducing the impact of remains accountable for safety and is expected process of hazard identification and risk injuries on our workforce through continuous to demonstrate leadership. assessment. concentrated focus on driving down the severity of accidents and a concerted effort on eliminating This is essentially a tool for identifying taskall accidents. Despite the fatalities, the LTIFR specific hazards and risks, quantifying the of all regions continued the positive downward exposures and establishing risk-reduction trend. activities. The incident investigation method has provided Group fatalities Lost time injury frequency rate Number of people Own employees and contractors the root-cause analysis output that drives all LTIFR II prevention activities. Our investigations continue 0.8 60 4 to focus on root causes as opposed to finding 0.7 50 blame. 0.6 3 40 0.5 0.4 30 2 0.3 20 0.2 1 10 0.1 0 0.0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Contractors Own employees Contractors Own employees Contractors II Own employees II 45 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References People Sound relations Material issue Labour relations Our response Global Our response Europe Our response North America Sound labour relations create a harmonious The Sappi employment landscape includes Approximately 77% of our employees belong Approximately 65% of our employees are working environment, enhance productivity and interaction with trade unions at all our to a union and are represented through Works members of a union; there are 11 collective help maintain a healthy turnover rate. manufacturing sites across the group. This Councils. bargaining agreements with hourly employees interaction is based on transparent in place. communication and mutual respect. European Works Council meetings take place twice a year at which Sappi is represented by During FY2015, we settled labour agreements Globally, approximately 63% of our workforce the Chief Executive Officer and the Human with the majority of our hourly production is unionised, with 69% belonging to a bargaining Resources Director. The main purpose of the workers through negotiations with the United unit. meeting is to inform and consult on business Steelworkers Union at Westbrook, Cloquet and 63% of our workforce is Overall, the year under review was characterised by amicable, but tough negotiations and results/market developments and pan-European organisational topics. Somerset Mills on economic terms consistent with the industry. unionised relatively good relationships with organised There were no material issues in FY2015. labour across the geographies. Our response South Africa Amendments to several labour laws did not The other recognised trade unions, which are Sale of Cape Kraft and Enstra Mills 69 have a material impact on Sappi. party to the Bargaining Council for the Wood Formal consultation was concluded with all % and Paper Sector, are also covered by this recognised trade unions regarding the sale of Approximately 51% of our total workforce is agreement and enjoy certain organisational Cape Kraft and Enstra Mills, and the relocation of our workforce unionised. rights in Sappi Southern Africa where they have of the Will cutter machine from Enstra Mill to belongs to a membership. Stanger Mill. Consultations were conducted in bargaining unit In FY2015, a new recognition and threshold accordance with sections 189 and 197 of the agreement was concluded with the majority We also developed and adopted a new Labour Relations Act. union, the Chemical, Energy, Paper, Printing, engagement and dialogue framework which Wood and Allied Workers Union. This agreement clearly defines the terms of reference for these Consulting parties have reached consensus to regulates the relationship with the union and engagement structures, both at national and use a combination of voluntary severance most importantly, sets the criteria for any new business unit level. packages and redeployment to other Sappi trade union wishing to claim organisational rights Southern Africa business units as mitigating at any of the region’s operations or business During FY2015, wage negotiations without factors to avoid or minimise forced retrenchments. units. industrial action were successfully concluded in all sectors – forestry, pulp and paper as well as sawmilling. 46 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References People Mutual benefit Material issue Corporate Social Responsibility Our response Global perspective Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) investment In each region where we operate, we invest in can enhance a company’s social licence to three key stakeholder groups: customers, operate, help establish customer loyalty and communities and employees. While each region attract talent. has its own programme, these conform to common themes aligned with our business Community investment is particularly important needs and priorities, including education, local in South Africa, given that it is a developing community support, the environment and health country and that our plantations and operations and welfare. In addition, support for activities are situated in rural areas where economic and associated with access to Sappi land and social development lags behind more urbanised conservation efforts, such as biodiversity and sectors. species mapping, mountain biking and recreational birding continues to grow. Representative examples of our CSR initiatives are showcased here. Our CSR initiatives in each region are described in more detail in our regional Sustainability Reports. Ideas That Matter supports designers who use design as a positive force in society. US$ 2.8million Case study Eco-effectiveness campaign Case study Ideas That Matter global corporate social responsibility Europe As part of the recently launched regional North America Our Ideas That Matter (ITM) investment in our Eco-effectiveness campaign, at the Labelexpo programme continues to recognise and support stakeholders Europe trade show in September 2015, we designers who use design as a positive force CSR spend per region encouraged customers to help support the in society. US$ million forestry rehabilitation charity, WeForest. Since 1999, the ITM programme has disbursed 2.5 In Khasi Hills (India), a subtropical forest area close to US$5 million to support approximately designated as one of the most biodiverse and 220 charitable causes in the USA. 2.0 unique habitats of the Indian subcontinent 1.5 bioregion, social and economic forces are driving fast deforestation and forest degradation. 1.0 WeForest’s tree planting project promotes 0.5 women’s entrepreneurship and empowers 0 indigenous communities to build a climateEurope North America South Africa resilient landscape. The contribution by Sappi 2015 2016 and our customers will enable WeForest to plant 4,000 trees. 47 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References People Mutual benefit continued Case study Early Childhood Development South Africa We entered the second year of our new Early Childhood Development (ECD) project in KwaZulu-Natal (across 25 sites through the Training and Resources in Early Education (TREE) organisation) and in Mpumalanga (the development of an ECD Centre of Excellence at the Elandshoek community through Penreach). We have extended the ECD programme into Gauteng, with 50 practitioners in 50 ECD centres undergoing training through Jabulani Training and Development. Our support helped prepare more than 20,000 secondary and tertiary level students prepare for technological careers, some with Sappi. One of these is Hlengiwe Ndlovu, shown here graduating (left) and working in the field in the field (right) as an Environmental Manager for Sappi Forests, KwaZulu-Natal. Case study PROTEC South Africa In 2015, we celebrated a 20-year and successful integration into the working PROTEC results at grade 12 (matriculation) association with PROTEC — a non-profit environment, contributing over US$2.3 million level: 2014 organisation focused on maths, technology and towards PROTEC. % science education for students, from the 100 country’s previously disadvantaged communities, From 2013 onwards, we have contributed 80 in their final three years of high school. We US$836 (ZAR10,000) for each ‘A’ pass in maths sponsor branches close to our operations in and science achieved by PROTEC learners, 60 KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga. towards their tertiary education. 40 In the 2014 National Curriculum Statement We try to recruit from the communities close to 20 examinations, PROTEC students once again our operations, particularly through the PROTEC outperformed the average results achieved by pipeline, for example, Hlengiwe Ndlovu, National and Provincial Education Departments, Environmental Manager at Sappi Forests. KwaZulu-Natal PROTEC Mpumalanga PROTEC achieving a 97% average grade 12 pass and Shown above, monitoring water quality in the National 71% average bachelor pass against the national Lions River, on our Shafton Plantation in averages of 76% and 28% respectively. KwaZulu-Natal. PROTEC deploys learner excellence and teacher development programmes through a permanent branch Over the last twenty years, we have helped network spanning eight provinces. prepare more than 20,000 secondary and tertiary level students for technological careers 48 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Planet Sustainable woodfibre supply Material issue Woodfibre The global demand for woodfibre is expected to increase for the foreseeable future, driven partly by the trend to use renewable resources like woodfibre, rather than finite fossil fuels, for energy generation. Given that woodfibre is a key input to our manufacturing operations, maintaining continuity of supply is integral to our sustainability as a business. 5.7 million tons FY2015 total fibre The global woodfibre demand is expected to increase for the foreseeable future. consumption Sappi Southern Africa is involved in 44 land reform/restitution projects, totalling 18,803ha, generating valuable economic opportunities in rural areas. Our response Climate change Our response Europe Climate change, discussed on pages 53 and In October 2014 the European Union (EU) The American Forest and Paper Association 112 to 113 is affecting our fibre supply. Council of Ministers adopted a 27% renewable (AF&PA) reports that wood pellet exports, mainly energy by 2030 target. Unlike the 2020 mandate from the southern states, to the EU amounted (20% renewable energy), the 2030 goal is an to 2.8 million tons in 2013. The US Industrial 79 Our response Europe and North America % EU-wide target, not a country-specific target. Pellet Association report exports to have grown to 3.6 million tons in 2014. In Europe, we mitigate fibre supply risk through The focus on renewable energy is impacting the of our global fibre use shareholdings in wood sourcing cooperatives wood supply to our mills because using wood is FSC®-, PEFC™or and in this region and in North America, through as an energy source is incentivised through SFI®-certified a combination of approaches which include subsidies. Wood pellet consumption rose by both shortand long-term wood supply 14% to 20 million tons in 2014 ­— more than agreements. double the consumption five years ago. 49 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Planet Sustainable woodfibre supply continued Our response South Africa Opportunity — pest and disease tolerance Challenge — Drought We are faced with both opportunities and Eucalyptus grandis has historically been the By September 2015, Sappi was involved in 44 The severe drought in KwaZulu-Natal has posed challenges in terms of our fibre supply base. South African forestry industry’s most important land reform/restitution projects (including those a challenge. hardwood species. It has good specialised on existing community land or on those Opportunity — improved yield cellulose and kraft pulping characteristics, but purchased by the current owner, totalling In this province, the supply of one of Stanger Owning, managing and leasing 492,000 is prone to pests and diseases like the gall18,803ha. These projects range from 28ha to Mill’s key inputs, bagasse, has been affected, hectares of plantations gives us a competitive forming wasp, Leptocybe invasa. the biggest project of 6,876ha planted near with yields decreasing from 80 tons of sugarcane advantage. Our aim is to produce low-cost Lothair in Mpumalanga. A large number of these per hectare in 2009 to 30 tons per hectare in wood with the required pulping characteristics In light of this, we are evaluating Eucalyptus properties previously belonged to commercial 2015. and increase yield per hectare. We actively dunnii as an additional hardwood timber source farmers who had supply agreements with Sappi. pursue this aim, particularly through genetic for the production of pre-hydrolysis kraft Accordingly, we are looking into the possibility improvement of planting stock. Accordingly, we specialised cellulose pulp at Ngodwana Mill. To ensure sustainable production from these of using sawdust, sourced from sawmills in the continue to investigate and classify timber This species has pulping properties similar to properties, we have entered into supply vicinity of the mill, as an alternative fibre source. species according to their respective pulping Eucalyptus grandis, but has a higher tolerance agreements with the land-reform beneficiaries characteristics and end-pulp quality. to the current range of pests and diseases. and have also provided assistance. Assistance As bagasse cooks more quickly than wood, we depends on the requirements of the project, have been investigating ways to optimally An example of this approach is our evaluation We are also identifying timber species for but ranges from a pure supply agreement to a process sawdust which has proved to be of a Pinus elliottii x Pinus caribaea variety Saiccor Mill which will improve production comprehensive Forestry Enterprise Development successful on a laboratory scale. Using sawdust hondurensis (PECH) hybrid which was efficiency. Agreement (FEDA). The latter is a supply would be an interim solution and would close recommended for use in the production of high agreement that incorporates development an immediate fibre gap rather than be a Kappa unbleached softwood. A successful mill Challenge — continuity-of-supply objectives — Sappi provides technical and permanent solution. trial was subsequently run with good results Maintaining continuity-of-supply from plantations business training as well as administrative and an estimated timber saving of approximately owned by land-reform beneficiaries is a support. Opportunity/challenge — GMO tree crops US$1 million a year. This hybrid has replaced challenge. Many land reform projects in South We have taken the decision to understand the Pinus elliottii, previously targeted for Sappi’s Africa have failed, despite the best intentions. Given the long time period between planting challenges and risks of GMO tree crops as our warmer, low-elevation sites and provides an As the World Bank has put it “After 20 years of and harvesting, funding of these projects still competitors in the woodfibre space have started estimated improved yield of 65% over the pure land reform there are some islands of success, remains one of the biggest challenges. With the utilising the technology. species. especially in horticulture, but these exist in a assistance of the Eastern Cape Rural sea of partial or complete failure, and the number Development Agency, we have managed to While we envisage possible environmental, of beneficiaries and the land area transferred is secure jobs funding for three land-claim projects social and reputational risks with GMOs, we disappointingly low.” in this region. A further three projects are being also see their potential to adapt our plantations funded through the Department of Rural to a potentially rapidly changing climate and as 65 % Poor post-settlement support is one of the key Development and Land Reform’s RECAP a renewable source of chemicals, energy and reasons cited by experts. programme. fibre. improved yield Against this backdrop we have been approached PECH hybrid compared to by a large number of land reform beneficiaries Pinus elliottii to assist with the management of the timber on their properties, post settlement. 50 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Planet Carbon constraints Material issue Our response Global Emissions regulations and carbon tax The success of our industry depends, in part, Against the backdrop of the pulp and paper on fair, consistent and predictable environmental industry’s high levels of energy intensity, regulations that take account of the high level regulators are formulating policy aimed at of renewable energy used by our operations. curbing emissions and introducing carbon tax In 2015, our global generation of renewable without due recognition of the industry’s high energy (derived from black liquor, sludges and use of renewable energy or of the important biomass) stood at 52.4% — an increase of 6.1% role that sustainably managed natural forests over five years. In addition, over five years we and plantations play in mitigating global warming. have achieved a reduction in absolute emissions intensity (Scope 1 and 2) of 16.9%. 52.4 % of energy generated was 6.1increase in % from renewable resources renewable energy use — past five years Sustainably managed natural forests and plantations play a roll in mitigating global warming. Our response Europe Emissions regulations Carbon taxes Total GHG emissions intensity t CO2/adt (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) In October 2014, the European Council In July 2015, the European Council proposed A regionwide carbon tax was proposed by the recognised that measures to protect energy new terms for the EU ETS. European Commission in 2010, but has not 1.0 intensive industry from carbon leakage (defined been agreed upon by the 27 member states. as the increase in CO2 emissions outside the We share the view of the Confederation of However, both Finland and The Netherlands 0.8 countries taking domestic mitigation action European Paper Industries as well as the Alliance where we have operations, have instituted 0.6 divided by the reduction in the emissions of of Energy Intensive Industries that the proposal carbon taxes. these countries) should be maintained when falls short, most notably in its protection of 0.4 revising the European Emission Trading System energy intensive industries. Tax incentives for a reduction in carbon emissions (EU ETS). The Council concluded that the most have been tabled in Europe for all industries. 0.2 efficient installations in sectors such as the pulp Together with these industry bodies, we also Sappi Europe is engaging with the relevant 0.0 and paper industry should not face undue believe that sufficient carbon leakage protection commissions in this regard. carbon costs that would impact their global is essential, especially for sectors that want to 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 competitiveness. invest in low carbon technologies in Europe. 51 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Planet Carbon constraints continued Our response North America Our response South Africa Emissions regulations Carbon taxes Emissions regulations Carbon tax In the USA, both the US Environmental There is no nationwide carbon tax levelled in In September 2015, South Africa submitted its Linked to the above is the South African Protection Agency (EPA) and the federal the USA. INDC to the UNFCC. The mitigation component Government’s determination to introduce carbon legislature submit numerous bills and or of the country’s INDC moves away from a tax. proposed regulations concerning emissions, The USA has submitted its Intended Nationally ‘deviation from business-as-usual’ form of many of which are never adopted or never Determined Contribution (INDC) to the United commitment and takes on the form of a ‘peak, Shortly after year-end, the government published become law. We routinely monitor pending Nations Framework on Climate Change plateau and decline’ (PPD) greenhouse gas the Draft Carbon Tax Bill with the aim of legislation and proposed regulations to ensure (UNFCC). This envisages an economy-wide (GHG) emissions trajectory range. The trajectory implementing carbon taxation by 01 January we are in a position to understand the target of reducing GHG emissions by 26–28% range is consistent for 2025 with 42% deviation 2017. In addition, the Department of ramifications if and when the proposed legislation below the 2005 level in 2025. below the business-as-usual emissions growth Environmental Affairs (DEA) and National or regulation goes into effect. trajectory. Treasury have embarked on a process to ensure The nature, scope and timing of regulations to that the carbon tax is aligned with a proposed The EPA has finalised or proposed several rules implement such a target are highly uncertain carbon budget system — a move we welcome. relating to emissions reporting and emissions and, currently, we do not know the potential reductions, including rules finalised in January impact of potential regulations on our operations The proposed carbon tax formula includes the 2013 known as ‘Boiler MACT’. These establish in North America. ability to sequestrate which gives us a zero new standards for emissions of hazardous air liability based on our current calculations. If we pollutants from commercial and industrial boilers could not use our plantations as a carbon sink, including particulate matter, hydrogen chloride, the direct tax payable would be approximately mercury and carbon monoxide. Under the rules, US$5.8 million (US$6.4 million if landfill sites companies have three years to comply, but were included) based on current Scope 1 carbon individual states have the authority to allow an emissions. additional year for compliance. Going forward, we will work closely with the The states where Sappi North America’s mills DEA on determining the 'local conversion factor' are located have authorised an additional year. for our plantations in respect of carbon sequestration. This is critical to ensure that we Our boilers currently meet most limits under the are not liable for any carbon tax. rules due to past capital investments and optimisation of fuel mix. We will also continue to develop and implement renewable and cogeneration energy projects Equipment needed for further emissions control to reduce indirect carbon tax and dependence at each of the three mills in North America is on Eskom (the national electricity generator) included in our capital expenditure plans as part and reduce waste to landfill to reduce our of annual maintenance spending. potential tax liability in this area. 52 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Planet Climate change Material issue Climate change Our response Global perspective Our response Europe Our response South Africa The World Economic Forum 2015 Global Risks Climate change risk and opportunity factors Given our general risk mitigation strategy of We are conducting forest research into species Survey identifies failure of climate adaptation such as regulatory, reputational, weather related sourcing pulp and woodfibre from a variety of improvement in order to maximise yield under as one of the top four high-impact, high(fire and pests), forest management, operational sources and regions, we do not anticipate any different climate change scenarios and match likelihood risks, alongside water crises, under/ resource management (water and energy), material impact to our raw material supply from species more closely to sites. unemployment and interstate conflict. licence to operate and customer behavioural climate change in the shortto medium-term. change are assessed together with other nonDrier conditions increase the likelihood of fire climate change related risks and are plotted on our plantations in South Africa. biannually on a risk matrix according to the Our response North America probable severity of the monetary impact and To mitigate this risk we have established an the likelihood of occurrence, to determine Our operations do not currently face material improved Fire Risk Management System (FRMS) possible risk exposure. risks associated with climate change. We source which categorises our risks and assigns a risk from northern hardwood and softwood wood rating. We also calculate an estimated maximum The risk matrix is updated biannually. baskets that have not suffered under any loss (EML) per area. drought conditions or from fire. We work According to the US National Oceanic and diligently to minimise the carbon footprint of our Fire management plans are drawn up with Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the average operations by sourcing only from sustainably mitigation measures to minimise these risks and global temperature during the period from managed forests, using fossil fuels wisely with reduce EMLs as much as possible. These plans December 2014 to February 2015 was the large reliance on carbon neutral biomass fuel, are monitored throughout the fire season using highest on record. NOAA points out that warmerand minimising waste throughout our processes. our FRMS system. than average temperatures were widespread across Central America, northern and central South America, Australia, most of Africa, and much of Eurasia, including most of Russia. However, there were also colder-than-average temperatures in February across the central and eastern United States — similar to the conditions experienced in the region at the same time in 2013/14. In all three regions where we operate, climate change could alter the frequency and intensity of forest disturbances such as insect outbreaks, invasive species, wildfires, and storms. These disturbances could reduce forest productivity and change the distribution of tree species. 53 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Planet Water Material issue Water Our response Global Our response South Africa NASA observed 37 of the world’s largest aquifers Our production processes depend on water, as Of all the regions where Sappi has operations, over a ten-year period from 2003 to 2013 in a does woodfibre, our primary input. South Africa, a water-stressed country, presents satellite project called GRACE (Gravity Recovery the most significant water risk to our business. 93 % and Climate Experiment). Water abstraction and use The country is currently experiencing its worst Globally, we return 93% of the water we extract drought in many years. Of the 37 aquifers studied, 21 are being depleted back into the environment after it has been at an unsustainable rate — more water was treated and cleaned. Of the 7% balance, Saiccor Mill of the water we extract is returned to the environment removed than replaced during the decade-long approximately 4% exits the mill as in-product To mitigate the impact of low flows on the after it has been treated study period. moisture; the remaining 3% is released to the uMkomazi River, the prime source of water to and cleaned environment as water vapour. Saiccor Mill, we are proceeding with a project to raise the Comrie Dam wall, upstream of Globally, over five years Please note: Saiccor Mill has been excluded from Saiccor Mill. This dam was originally constructed these calculations as it is the only mill in the group in 1978 to augment supply from the uMkomazi to use the sulphite pulping process in the River. Raising the dam wall by four metres will production of DWP. (Both Ngodwana and Cloquet more than triple the amount of water stored in Mills use the Prehydrolysis Kraft pulping process the dam, which will help ensure security of water 4 to produce dissolving wood pulp.) Over five years, supply — avoiding possible downtime as a % Saiccor Mill has reduced TSS and COD effluent result of low river-flows. concentrations by 30% and 20% respectively. of the water we extract exits the mill as Water returned to the environment in-product moisture Globally, over five years, we have improved effluent quality by reducing chemical oxygen demand by 21.8% and total suspended solids by 7.1%. Globally, over five years Globally, over five years 3% of the water we extract is 21% reduction in effluent 7.1% reduction in effluent released to the environment COD TSS as water vapour 54 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Planet Energy Material issue Energy Our response — Global Our response — Europe Our response — North America Energy is a key input for our industry. Aggressively We are overcoming energy price increases, by In Europe, we opened a new biomass power In North America, over 70% of the energy used managing energy usage leads to a reduction in reducing our specific energy consumption. Over plant at Kirkniemi Mill in Finland, six months by our mills comes from renewable resources, carbon emissions and enhanced cost five years, we have reduced: • specific energy ahead of schedule. The new US$64.4 million and as a result we have the lowest reported efficiencies. In South Africa, where national consumption by 19.9% • energy intensity by power plant — inaugurated in September 2015, greenhouse gas emissions amongst the major energy demand outstrips supply at times, energy 12.5%. We have increased energy self-sufficiency six months ahead of schedule — will flexibly domestic coated freesheet suppliers. security is also an issue. by 9.1%. use solid fuels such as bark from the mill’s debarking process, and other wood-based Globally we have five hydro, two gas and 31 fuels, as well as and coal. The boiler plant has Purchased energy costs: Cost of sales steam turbines which generate around 800MW a circulating fluidised bed system and a capacity CoS % of renewable power on 14 sites across seven for 96MW of thermal energy. 15 countries. Our response — South Africa 12 ­Globally, over five years Biomass electricity generation Biogas 9 South Africa The government’s Renewable South Africa In many of our European mills, we Energy Independent Power Producer Programme generate biogas, a renewable energy source. In 19.9 (REIPPP) is aimed at addressing the national line with our strategic focus to derive value from 6 % need to increase electricity generating capacity energy opportunities and in the light of increasing 3 and reduce carbon emissions. energy prices, we are looking at expanding our 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 reduction in specific use of anaerobic digestion technology. energy consumption Sappi submitted the Ngodwana Mill Energy Europe North America Southern Africa Global Biomass Project to REIPPP and was selected We are examining the use of anaerobic digestion as preferred bidder. The project involves the as one of the technologies to treat Saiccor Mill’s supply of biomass from local plantations to waste condensate. Rich in organic matter, it Ngodwana Mill. This is then used as boiler fuel could be treated with a process which uses Reduction in energy consumption Energy self-sufficiency GJ/adt % to produce steam which in turn will generate organic acids to produce biogas in the form of 25MW of electrical energy which will be fed into methane. This in turn could be used to produce 25 80 the national grid. The energy generated will be energy, either for internal use or sold to the 70 sold into the national grid from 2018. Significant national grid. This has significant implications 20 60 ongoing value is being created due to the nature for the mill’s energy costs — evaluations show 15 50 of biomass projects and the monetary and job that the condensate has the potential to generate 40 creation spend across the project value chain; enough energy to replace 30 tons of coal per 10 30 from collecting biomass in the plantations, day. We are also evaluating the extraction of 20 through plant and equipment contracts, to chemicals from the condensate stream. 5 10 community impact through Community Trusts 0 and the economic development and socioFollowing bench-scale test work, we have Europe North America South Africa Global economic development spend as well as assessed three potential technology suppliers 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 shareholder returns. and will be establishing a pilot-scale plant in 2016. 55 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References megatrend technology Prosperity The time it takes to go from breakthrough technology to mass-market application is collapsing and this is re-shaping the global economy. 56 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our investment case Paper Glob We are well positioned for current al ra nkin and future growth markets. The g 6 #2 paper business is highly cashgenerative, providing the funds for Gra % nts heet 25ales contine #1 future growth into cellulose-based Coated paper frees phic solutions, speciality packaging of s % 13 s an papers and complementary products. 26sales dp ffices 4 sales o Coat ed Co ap ack ls er of mil Dissolving wood pulp (DWP) ate agin dp Underlying-demand trends positive: 3 ills g • Share of the textiles market, our of % m 49 Leadin primary market, is expected to sa g s P les sity produc DW ie grow further, and iver er Glo a lit Significant assets ic d ci ing • Market offers diversification 7 ph lea bal e ka g Sp m Our global presence allows us to take ills ra de c opportunities. g ts Mark r pa eo a s se advantage of opportunities where r G e pe 25 t t le lly Pa markets are strong: i can ad loba g G tron 59 % Speciality paper • Europe: well-invested assets at n if s er % This business continues to improve the heart of the European market Si er ic pap sales volumes and realised prices. • North America: exposure to most g Graph t and attractive end-market segment Speciality paper market rren • South Africa: favourable currency Our Cu Global market volume is projected Carbon sequestration positioned trend. to reach 34.9 million tons by 2020; 40% 492,000ha forests 17% Well Forestry R&D Fibrebase DWP growing at a compound annual investment future growth m Extensive fibre-base growth rate of 6.6% from 2015. In South Africa: arke • Low-cost, fast-growing woodfibre Paper packaging case base from state-of-the-art Speciali 10 % 7 % ties Demand for virgin packaging is ts sustainably managed plantations strong in South Africa. • Forestry R&D programmes target Pac kagi 25 % suitability of species for changing ng climate conditions and end-use Paper packaging market on En Global market value is estimated to in terms of growth and fibre erg sts t re va y/n ear properties, and co d u no /ad reach US$344.4 billion by 2019. • Carbon sequestration by our ng ct t In ose Hi jac ent plantations offers a potential fin i Deb llul bu s Nanocellulose Nanocellulose opens ce 10 % anc buffer against carbon taxes. i no up growth opportunities. We have low Na es er entr developed and patented a low-cost, Refinanc yc FY Debt reduction re ing log 2 energy-efficient, production process serv — no 01 We have a demonstrable track record ch 205 that uses a unique chemistry to break es Cas te firsts 20 of debt reduction. Refinancing and h Fi ve stry sa Visio down wood pulp fibres into du les debt reduction has lead to lower f in n nanocellulose. The chemicals used yo b financing costs. There is the possibility ry in our process can be recycled and Sappi Europe or go sales of utilising some of our cash reserves st ion ate reused without generating significant tc to repay and refinance a portion of Sappi North America uc ory volumes of effluent. A pilot-scale od teg our debt, moving closer to our target Sappi Southern Africa pr ca nanocellulose plant is being built at by ct of two times net debt to EBITDA. du the Brightlands Chemelot Campus Sappi Trading ro yp in The Netherlands. 57 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Sustainability in context Although Prosperity, People and Planet are all Saleable production FY2015 financial performance interlinked, our current and future viability as a Million adt/a business and our performance in the People 8 and Planet areas are contingent on successfully KS AGREED: MOVE PRODUCTION TO 24% 7 generating Prosperity on behalf of all our PROSPERITY SECTION 6 stakeholders. We acknowledge that we have an environmental profit 5 footprint, and commit, through our Sustainability increase 4 Our ability to deliver value creation for our Charter, to managing and mitigating the shareholders by focusing on Prosperity through environmental, climate and biodiversity impacts 3 improved profit, strategic positioning and debt of our 2 operations. reduction, lies at the heart of our commitment Our far-reaching environmental management 1 to sustainability. systems 0 enable the realisation of these A detailed analysis of our FY2015 financial Europe commitments. 2011 North America South Africa 2012 2013 2014 Global 2015 50% earnings per share increase (excluding special performance, which is beyond the scope of Our industry stands items) this Group Sustainability Report, can be found Global saleable production decreased slightly on the cusp of renewal in our Annual Integrated Report 2015, available as a result of declining demand for graphic as plantationand forestat www.sappi.com. paper and the disposal and sale of certain mills. derived bioproducts At the request of some environmental, social Europe Production decreased due to the: • Sale emerge as a global game and governance (ESG) ratings agencies, we of Nijmegen Mill — part of the mill’s production US$ 0.34 changer in a have included our saleable production in airwas moved to Lanaken Mill • PM11 rebuild at FY2015 earnings per share dry-tons per annum (adt/a) over five years, which Gratkorn Mill which resulted in some curtailment. carbon-constrained FY2014:US$0.22 correlates with our reporting on environmental future. metrics. North America Production decreased slightly due to: • Somerset Mill had a cold outage and lower paper machine efficiency which led to Our strategy to reduced production volumes • Cloquet Mill intentionally evolve the switched between DWP and kraft pulp US$ 175 ZAR 450 million business has positioned production which resulted in less saleable pulp. year-on-year net debt SSA2002 bond decrease repaid April 2015 us to capitalise on the South Africa Production increased due to: opportunities presented • Higher saleable volumes attributed to the by a carbon-constrained addition of DWP capacity at Ngodwana Mill • Project Buyisa, an energy project at Saiccor Mill future, providing enhanced rewards to all aimed at increasing the use of renewable energy 2018 and 2019 sources and generating savings • Increased bonds refinanced at a materially lower interest rate our stakeholders. Ultraflute production at Tugela Mill. 58 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References On the cusp of renewal Our industry stands on the cusp of renewal as standalone operations; giving us a head start needs as One Sappi, maximising the value of Our strategy to intentionally evolve the business plantationand forest-derived bioproducts in growing adjacent businesses that add our global brand. will avoid the need for radical change. We are emerge as a global game changer in a carbon additional value to the wood we use in our pulp able to respond to and accommodate in the constrained future. and paper businesses. Our aim is to remain a global business with most appropriate way, any changes in our macro proud roots as a South African multinational environment, which may emerge from those Our integrated pulp and paper mills are ideal To capitalise on the opportunities presented by company. We will maintain and develop megatrends we have identified as the most likely platforms from which to meet future market a changing world, we have evolved our strategy, production operations across the globe to influence our evolution. These megatrends demand for carbon neutral bio-energy, embedding our medium-term targets in our supported by strong research and development are introduced in the lead-in of each section of biochemicals, biomaterials, nanomaterials, 2020Vision. centres and operate through a worldwide sales this report. neutraceuticals and pharmaceuticals. Integrating network. the extraction and beneficiation of plantationOur 2020Vision capitalises on the potential to and forest-derived biocompounds with our mill increasingly connect our businesses and processes is significantly more efficient than operations with each other and our customers’ Graphic paper 25 % of EBITDA Packaging 2020Vision and specialities 25 % of EBITDA Group EBITDA Sappi will be a diversified woodfibre substantial group targeting a substantial Specialised increase increase in EBITDA through an cellulose by 2020 expanded product portfolio with 40 % of EBITDA increased margins, providing enhanced rewards to all New business its stakeholders. opportunities 10 % of EBITDA 59 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our group strategy Through intentional evolution we will continue to grow Sappi into a profitable and cash generative diversified woodfibre group — ­ focused on dissolving wood pulp, paper and products in adjacent fields. 60 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Realising our strategy Rationalise declining businesses, grow through moderate investments and accelerate growth in adjacent businesses from a strong base. Our strategy, supported by the medium-term targets detailed in our 2020Vision, sets out to rationalise declining businesses; grow through moderate investments and accelerate growth in adjacent businesses from a strong base. We are achieving this by focusing more intensively on specialised packaging; providing high-end graphic papers for our customers who still see the value of printed communications; expanding our dissolving wood pulp (DWP) business and moving into adjacent markets, as described in the ‘Key material issues’-section of this report which also showcases some of our new products. 61 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Realising our strategy — Rationalising declining businesses — Europe Following the upgrade of PM11 at Gratkorn To cope with declining paper demand, some Our eCommerce platform provides direct In addition, we create and nurture partnerships Mill in November 2014 and increasing the merchants in Europe have reduced their access to mill cutter reels and production with customers; working with them to offer weight-range capability of this paper machine, working capital by holding less stock and cycles. solutions and products, ensuring that we are we completed a general rebuild of critical increasing indent orders. We’ve therefore had the ‘go-to’ publication paper supplier. By parts of the liquor boiler and recovery plant to keep larger stocks which led to increased Recognising that dealing directly is not the developing service concepts like Dynamic in 2015. The rebuild decreases noise and NOx logistics and stock-keeping costs. In response, solution for every printer and every market, Replenishment where we automatically top and SO2 pollution, and assures continued pulp we developed a new framework Sappi & You our sales teams have been working with our up printers’ stock, based on the volume of production in the long term. — a new way of doing business — to put our preferred merchant partners to implement their previous print run, we are doing our own and our merchants’ businesses on a more mutually beneficial supply solutions. utmost to improve mutual business We commissioned a new energy plant at sustainable footing to jointly serve the market performance. This is helping our customers Kirkniemi Mill in Finland, six months ahead of at the lowest possible cost. As we were achieve higher revenues, with the potential to schedule. holding the stock anyway, it made sense for reduce costs. the biggest printers to order directly from us. 62 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Realising our strategy — Rationalising declining businesses — North America We further consolidated the focused packaging division established in 2014. The packaging market in this region has been disrupted by recent closures, sales and mega-mergers. Responding to the market gap created by these developments and building on the success of LusterPrint, a greaseresistant paper used primarily in pet food packaging, we launched LusterCote for labels and other related end-use applications. The wide range of speciality packaging grades produced at Sappi Alfeld Mill in Germany — Algro Finess, Parade, Prima and Fusion — is now available in North America, meeting the evolving expectations of the North American packaging market. 63 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Realising our strategy — Rationalising declining businesses — South Africa Aligned with the Sappi group’s 2020Vision, We invested in capital upgrades to secure During H1 FY16, we will invest a further we are now focusing on packaging, energy Stanger Mill as a worldclass office and tissue US$5.9 million in Stanger Mill’s sheeting generation and dissolving wood pulp in South paper producer. The first phase of this project and finishing operations focusing on Africa. has been successfully completed through an speed, increasing the throughput of our investment of approximately US$2.5 million finished A4 products and improving the Demand for our new Ultraflute — a lightweight in upgrading various aspects of the paper packaging quality of our products to semi-chemical fluting made with 75% virgin machine to ensure paper quality meets the further benefit customers. fibre — launched in 2014 remained firm and high standard required in today’s demanding we launched Ultratest, a recycled linerboard markets. Tugela Mill recently installed a spray with superior strength properties. dryer that turns lignosulphonate liquid into powder, making it easier to transport to customers around the world. 64 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Realising our strategy continued Generating cash to strengthen our balance sheet We have made good progress in cleaning and We achieved this through the sales of Enstra The refinancing has reduced Sappi’s annual Annual profit was up 24% to US$167 million strengthening our balance sheet to accelerate and Cape Kraft Mills in South Africa (finalised interest charge by US$27 million, lowering our from US$135 million last year. This, together our growth in adjacent businesses. in October and November 2015, respectively) total interest bill in 2015 from US$162 million with our improved debt position has positioned and by issuing a new EUR450m seven-year a year to US$135 million. This from a peak of us better for growth. bond at a record low interest rate of 3.375%. US$250 million in 2011. We ended the year We then used the proceeds to pay off bonds at 2.8 times net debt to EBITDA, and we that had average interest rates of 7.5%. The expect that to come down significantly further last bond issue was five times over-subscribed. towards our over-time target of two times net debt to EBITDA in 2016. 65 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Realising our strategy continued Achieving cost advantages To achieve cost advantages, aligned to our The global procurement strategy is based on: Our global procurement strategy is supported One Sappi strategy, we initiated a global • Exercising global leverage where possible by the appointment of a global management procurement strategy to enhance the value • Sharing best procurement practices for consulting firm to conduct a global spend of purchased third-party goods and services regional based purchases analysis to achieve a detailed breakdown of and create a sustainable competitive • Working with key stakeholders to reduce current procurement spend across regions. advantage. purchased commodity costs, considering This will enable us to identify additional alternate sources and/or substitute opportunities for cost savings beyond the materials initiatives already undertaken across all • Benchmarking commodity spend within regions. Sappi, as well as within and outside our industry, and The analysis also involves identifying • Prioritising and delivering game-changing groupwide changes that can be made to cost reductions. current tools and practices to improve overall effectiveness. 66 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Underpinning our strategy with research and development Adjacent markets Nanocellulose Our decision to build a pilot nanocellulose plant aligns with our strategic move into adjacent markets. The pilot plant at Brightlands Chemelot Campus in The Netherlands offers state-of-the-art R&D Technology is Sappi Technology Centre, Pretoria: • Fibre processing • Paper science • Chemical sciences • Environmental sciences. and manufacturing infrastructures, on-campus a cornerstone of our education and science-oriented business support, venture capital, and business business and is supported development services. by technology centres in each region, covering every Nov 2007 Project to spin fibres from nanocellulose initiated at Napier section of the value chain. University. Mar 2010 Comprehensive market survey. Jan 2011 Full time Sappi employees appointed to the project. Nov 2012 Project realigned towards the lowcost production of nanocellulose. 2013-2014 Business case, patents and We invested US$28 million laboratory trials. Sappi Maastricht Centre of Excellence: Papermaking Sappi Westbrook Centre of Excellence: on R&D in FY2015. processes. Coated fine paper and speciality casting release paper development. 2014-2015 Announcement of a patented nanocellulose process that uses a unique, low-cost chemical process whereby chemicals can easily be recycled without generating large amounts of effluent. 2016 Commission plant. We promote an internal culture of innovation through the annual TIA awards. Sappi Specialised Cellulose Centre of Excellence, Umkomaas: Sappi Forestry Research Centre, Tweedie: • Applications testing • Fundamental cellulose properties. • Tree breeding • Propagation techniques • Silviculture. 67 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Responding to growing demand Specialities Expanding our range in Europe Specialised packaging A strong presence in Packaging Expanding the Ultraflute range the food packaging market globally We launched Algro Thermo, a new premiumSouth Africa Lightweighting is a worldwide quality base-paper for the direct, specialist Our coatings expertise enables us to meet trend which has benefits in terms of cost and thermal printing market. requirements for complicated prints, finishes in the reduction of carbon footprint. and colours. Paper-based packaging is Available in weights from 100-193g/m², Algro increasingly seen by consumers, manufacturers To meet demand, in South Africa, we launched Thermo offers a superior optical appearance and retailers as an environmentally friendlier Ultraflute lightweight semi-chemical fluting in for tickets, and other thermal printing applications alternative to fossil fuel-based packaging. 2014. Ultraflute offers improved yield without including point of sale systems and vouchers compromising the structural integrity of the box. as well as labels for shipping and product Food is projected to account for almost threeThe product’s high humidity performance makes identification. quarters of global consumer flexible packaging it particularly ideal for fruit and vegetable consumption in 2015. Meat, fish, and poultry packaging that need to withstand changing Algro Thermo is aimed at converters who add are the largest users of flexible packaging in the cyclic humidity conditions, as well as frozen a thermal coating layer to its surface. The paper food sector. Confectionery and baked goods fish, meat and other agricultural produce sent offers the option to preprint text and images on follow. Flexible food packaging has been growing to market via the cold chain. Ultraflute typically In response to the both sides of the substrate with high levels of at an average annual rate of 4.0% in volume retains more than 70% of its initial strength growing demand for consistency, ensuring high quality levels, with terms over the period 2010–2015. under these conditions and maintains this sharper text and a smoother surface. strength for longer periods. This is an quality packaging we Among the many food packaging papers we improvement on Sappi’s previous semi-chemical have expanded our offer are: range. Specialities Excellence in North America global packaging Europe Algro Guard M and Leine Guard M with In 2015, there was outstanding demand for the portfolio, Designed for excellence in offset and flexographic integrated oil barrier and hot sealing properties. product on the back of booming agricultural transforming it into printing, LusterCote is a coated one side (C1S) These innovative and unique grades developed exports and we added a 150g/m2 variant to the one of our core product with superior print performance. in partnership with BASF and Eurofins are weight range. recommended to prevent migration of business segments With a unique backside coating, LusterCote contaminants into foods and other sensitive going forward. performs with both hot melt and wet adhesives products and are ideal for use in sugar, chocolate, in a wide variety of converting applications. confectionery, coffee, tea, crisps, snacks, nuts, and dried and dehydrated foods packaging. Designed with the cut and stack label market in mind, additional applications for C1S products North America LusterPrint, a grease resistant include: base sheet for metalising, PS label face paper with an outstanding print surface, is FDA sheet, litho laminating, posters and book dustcompliant for direct food contact and engineered jackets. with high strength characteristics. LusterPrint has become the market leader in multi-wall bags used for pet food. 68 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence in Europe FachPack 2015 — Nuremberg At FachPack 2015 — a packaging trade fair atelier, a unique multi-ply board produced on Algro Nature, a certified home compostable that hosted 1,500 exhibitors and 43,000 industry a single-wire board machine, delivering high flexible packaging substrate derived from visitors — we joined forces with Danish flexo levels of brightness, purity and gloss with a silky renewable raw materials. It is the first and only technology provider, TRESU, and Swedish touch and feel and unrivalled bulk. food-grade packaging paper with vegetableconverter FrontPac to showcase our Fusion® based coating ingredients (instead of mineraltopliner corrugated board designed specifically Algro Design, an award-winning bright white oil-based binders) that can be composted. It for bag-in-box and gift-box wrapping. It features cartonboard. can be laminated with flexible packaging films an extremely bright white and very flat surface from NatureFlex (produced by Innovia Films). after lamination. Fusion is fully ISEGA-certified Algro Guard M and Leine Guard M barrier for direct contact with food. paper grades equipped with hot seal properties, developed in partnership with BASF and We also showcased: atelier, Algro Design, Eurofins. The former is ideal for outer packaging Algro Nature, and Algro Guard M and Leine that requires high quality print; the latter is Guard M barrier paper grades. suitable for internal packaging and pouches for Developing and packaging: sugar, chocolate and confectionery, maintaining a strong coffee, tea, crisps, snacks, nuts and dried etc. brand identity and presence in our targeted market segments is an important aspect of our drive to generate Prosperity. Marketing promotion: label paper. Marketing promotion: casting release paper. Marketing promotion: rigid packaging paper. 69 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence in Europe continued Labelexpo — Brussels Customer engagement Save Food initiative We exhibited for the first time at the world’s Our sixth annual Sappi Football Cup, challenged One-third of global food production — with a largest label and package printing industry our customers to show off their skills in table 3.3 giga ton carbon footprint — is wasted or event, Labelexpo Europe. We featured the football. Participating countries included: lost en route to end-use customers, enough to following products: Algro Sol, our line of silicone base-papers Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Serbia, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey and the meet the world’s demand for food. Sappi became a member of the Save Food 3.3Gt CO e global food waste 2 features low silicone consumption, 25% lower United Kingdom. Qualifying matches follow the initiative (set up to combat food waste), signalling carbon footprint than other standard carrier papers currently rules issued by the International Table Soccer a firm commitment to better protection of available on the market. This ensures excellent Federation. foodstuffs the world over. removal of the self-adhesive films from the siliconised carrier paper and results in significant Save Food is a joint initiative of the Food and cost savings. Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Environment Parade® Prima A, G and HP, our label paper Programme (UNEP), Messe Düsseldorf and portfolio dedicated to wet-glue labelling, is a Interpack, the world’s leading trade fair for food one-side-coated paper with impressive processing and packaging. Through projects, brightness and gloss designed for superior print trade fairs and conferences, Save Food aims results and excellent optical appearance. to increase awareness among decision makers from the worlds of politics, business and industry of the critical need to fight food waste. Our commitment to the Save Food initiative is aligned with our strategic focus on innovative and sustainable paper-based packaging solutions. We aim to actively help reduce the use of fossil-fuel-derived packing materials in favour of renewable, natural raw materials and environmentally-friendly packaging alternatives, simultaneously reducing food waste. Marketing promotion: label paper. Marketing promotion: flexible packaging paper. 70 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence in North America Pack Expo 2015 — Las Vegas McCoy Opus Product guides We showcased our full range of speciality and We introduced a new promotion on McCoy that We relaunched our Opus brand with a We introduced new product guides for McCoy, packaging grades at the 2015 Pack Expo features special effects for digital paper. With comprehensive swatch book, product guide Opus, Somerset and Flo with updated product exhibition in Las Vegas, 28–30 September 2015. covers printed in multiple colours, standout and promotion. The new swatch book addresses positioning and details about the unique graphics, photography and special printing the breadth of the Opus line including all types characteristic of what differentiates each brand In addition to LusterPrint and LusterCote, we techniques, we have designed this new of printing formats — sheets, web and digital in the market. The guides also feature product also displayed Algro Guard M, Leine Guard M, promotion to inspire as well as inform printers — as well as all finishes and weights. The Opus specifications and information about Sappi Algro Sol and Algro Nature, as well as Algro about the superior performance of Sappi digital product family includes a solution optimised for products, research and development, Design and atelier, which have enjoyed significant papers. direct mail with superior glueability, foldability sustainability and best-in-class service. success in Europe, are now available to the and calliper guarantees ensuring predictable North American market and were on display at postage costs. Within the digital offering, Opus Pack Expo. has been optimised to perform using either dry or liquid toner on digital presses. Flexible with the perfect balance of shade and brightness, as well as the tightest tolerance of standards for any premium paper in its category — Opus delivers minimal variability across runs. 71 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence in North America continued We add value to our customers’ businesses by providing technical resources. The Standard, Volume 6, showcases the many binding techniques designers and publishers can use to present printed works. Haptic Brain, Haptic Brand The Standard Print excellence and innovation Ideas That Matter We ran a 2015 promotion entitled Haptic Brain, We continued to educate our customers, We recognised print excellence and innovation We continued with the annual Ideas That Matter Haptic Brand: A Communicator’s Guide to the publishing volume 6 – which focused on binding across 10 categories for work produced on grant programme which recognises and Neuroscience of Touch which included a printed techniques – in ‘The Standard’-series of Sappi papers in terms of the Sappi Printer of supports designers who use their skills and book, six video shorts, a microsite and live publications. the Year awards. Since 1999, the Sappi Printer expertise to solve communications problems customer events in major US cities featuring Dr of the Year Awards programme has been for a wide range of charitable activities. David Eagleman, a leading neuroscientist and eQ Insight regarded as the world’s most respected specialist in haptics. The campaign won the accolade of excellence in the printing industry. For the first time, we offered a chance for the Positively Print award which is given to the We continued to promote the eQ Insight series design community to participate directly in the individual, company or organisation that on topical sustainability issues in the paper To see the 2015 winners, please click here: grant programme by voting for their favourite develops a programme or advertising campaign industry and featured these on the ‘Sappi etc®’projects. The grant that received the most which best illustrates the strengths, sustainability section of our website. Facebook ‘Likes’ by 30 September will receive and value of print as a marketing medium. a US$5,000 bonus to escalate the reach, impact Sappi etc and influence of their project. Among the studies this book cites is a new finding from Eagleman Lab, which demonstrated Free and fully searchable, the Sappi etc site that consumers who read about a fictitious covers everything from paper basics and company on heavy, high-quality coated paper sustainability resources to advanced print and had more positive feelings about the company design techniques, including colour and understood and remembered the content management, printer technical tips, special significantly better than those who read the effects, varnishes, folding and designing for exact same content on either lighter, lowerdirect mail. quality uncoated paper or on a computer screen. 72 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence in South Africa atelier Typek — a nationally recognised brand We introduced Sappi Europe’s new folding Starting at the end of August 2015, as part of Typek supports education Typek sponsorships boxboard (FBB), atelier, in South Africa. a promotion, Typek — our popular brand of A4 We maintained our support of the Pick n Pay We make annual donations of Typek paper to office papers — wrappers featured the South School Club, which provides educational schools and support the annual pantomime at Labelled a hybrid FBB, atelier is produced at African flag prominently. material for learners across South Africa. The the Johannesburg Theatre. Maastricht Mill in the 220–350g/m2 weight range advertising agency which created this campaign and combines a bright-white finish with the The Typek brand is well-known and recognised received a gold Assagai award. rigidity and strength required in a FBB to deliver by its distinctive colours — sporting the South impressive functionality with any type of African flag on the wrappers bolstered this cartonboard printing, converting, finishing or product’s proudly made in South Africa post-production handling. credentials. The promotion coincided with the Rugby World Cup, adding support for the national rugby team during their September/October campaign. 73 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Developing and maintaining a strong brand presence in South Africa continued Innibos — in the bush World Forestry Congress Mountain biking Sappi has been a corporate sponsor of the In September 2015, a number of Sappi Engaging with the mountain biking community, We have taken up naming rights of several Innibos National Arts Festival, the biggest representatives attended the World Forestry across a broad range of people and organisations, events: Sappi Karkloof MTB, including the community event in Mpumalanga since the Congress held in Durban. They used the allows Sappi to create awareness around the Classic, Trailblazer and Recreational events • festival started in 2004. opportunity to engage at a high level and to value our plantations bring to people’s lives, Sappi Mankele Mountain Bike Challenge • Sappi showcase Sappi’s technical expertise by sharing aside from fibre products. Howick MTB Classic. We showcased our green credentials once again their expertise and best practice with peers at in 2015 at this annual event. an international level. Our involvement with the mountain biking We have also provided land access/sponsorship fraternity creates the opportunity to showcase to the following races: • Isuzu 3 Towers Stage our business, products, the contribution we Race • MTN Barberton Classic • SANI2C • make to our communities and our focus on Joburg2C • DCSR Misty Valley Challenge. responsible environmental management, thereby enhancing our reputation. The impact of the Sappi Karkloof MTB Festival on the local economy has been assessed at We have increased our mountain biking US$0.7-1 million. sponsorship to extend our reach in demonstrating our sustainable management of our extensive In 2015, we participated in a number of mountain natural areas and commercial plantations. biking fairs, including the Africa Cycle Fair. 74 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our value add Our products add value to people’s lives Indirect economic benefits At a glance 5 % to governments as taxation Our economic value added in FY2015 Dissolving wood pulp The indirect economic benefits of our operations 12% Viscose fabrics and textiles, and used in foodstuffs, cosmetics and pharmaceutical impact on sectors including technical, construction and engineering services which to lenders of capital as interest products. are outsourced to a wide variety of contractors. The chemicals industry, in particular, is one of US$ 5.39 million Graphic papers our major suppliers. value of goods Commercial printing including magazines, produced brochures, catalogues, direct mail, corporate In addition, the provision of services including reports and calendars. the collection of waste paper for the industry and the outsourcing of non-core activities such 26 % 3 5.6million Packaging papers as maintenance, medical services, transportation, Convenience food, fast food and to protect and cleaning and security creates opportunities for number of continents tons per annum transport fresh produce. small-, mediumand micro-enterprises. where we paper manufacture reinvested to grow the business Speciality, security and casting release papers Added value to regional prosperity Consumer goods, labels and a variety of other applications. Employment Globally, we employed 12,753 employees and 791 contractors in 2015. In addition, 2.5million tons per annum 1.3million tons per annum Our contribution to society approximately 12,000 people were employed paper pulp dissolving wood pulp capacity by contractors working for Sappi Forests in We contribute to society through payments of Southern Africa. governments, suppliers and employees, as well as returns to shareholders. Manufactured goods Globally, we produced goods worth US$5,390 We facilitate social and economic wellbeing by using labour drawn from local communities, million: Europe US$2,660 million 12,753 employees and the services of smalland mediumNorth America US$1,377 million enterprises situated in the areas around South Africa US$1,353 million plantations and production facilities. Contributing to domestic growth 57 % We also have a best practice training programme We contribute to domestic growth and the and, through our corporate social responsibility programme together with our enterprise balance of payments in each region where we operate by exporting products to over 100 12,000 contractor employees 791 contractors to employees as salaries, development programme in South Africa, invest countries around the world. (Sappi Forests) wages and other benefits in the socio-economic development of the communities in which our workers live. 75 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our industry’s value add Our industry stands on the cusp of renewal as plantationand forest-derived bioproducts emerge as a global game changer in a carbon-constrained future. Paper industry Adds value Pulp and paper industry Europe Forest products industry North America Forest sector South Africa With its traditional and new products, the paper The pulp and paper industry provides 180,000 The forest products industry employs 900,000 The forest sector employs about 166,000 people industry plays an important role in society, jobs in Europe directly, and 1.5 million in the workers and is among the top 10 manufacturing (directly and indirectly); providing a livelihood offering efficiently manufactured, fully recyclable value chain. It has a turnover of EUR175 billion sector employers in 47 states. For every 100 for about 652,000 breadwinners and their products, made from renewable raw materials. and adds EUR15 billion to Europe’s GDP. jobs in the industry, the paper and allied products dependants — mostly among the country’s rural industry supports 325 jobs in supplier industries population. Forestry industry A strategic economic sector and local communities. The wood-products industry supports an additional 225 jobs outside The pulp and paper industry provides about The forestry industry is one of the strategic the industry. 13,000 direct and 11,000 indirect employment economic sectors in the regions where we opportunities. operate, and makes a significant contribution Forest products workers earn a combined total to economic growth and job creation — of approximately US$50 billion annually. The The forest sector (forestry and forest products) particularly in rural areas, where employment industry is a significant taxpayer, paying contributes about 1% to national GDP. Regional and income-generation opportunities are more approximately US$7 billion annually in federal, GDP contributions summarises as follows: limited than in cities. state, and local taxes. KwaZulu-Natal 4.0% Mpumalanga 3.7% Eastern Cape 0.6% Limpopo 0.6% 76 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Paper adds value More effective in tandem Despite the migration of traditionally paperWhile these measurements and metrics don’t based content to electronic media, neuroscience rise to the level of universal scientific standards, research shows that paper-based content and they seem to fit with other research in the paper advertisements offer specific advantages in vs digital debate. connecting with our brains. Rather than an all-digital world carrying the day, it appears that a multi-channel approach — one that leverages the unique benefits of paper with the convenience and accessibility of digital — will perform best. Children’s language development and literacy skills are facilitated by book sharing. The most recent work supporting paper-based An important role in language development Pen and paper trump electronics marketing is a study sponsored by Canada Post and performed by Canadian neuromarketing firm TrueImpact. The study compared the effects Illiteracy is a global concern. Research suggests A Princeton University Psychology Department of paper marketing (direct mail pieces) with that 175 million young people, largely from poor study revealed that the increasingly common 21% digital media (eMail and display adverts). countries and regions, lack basic literacy skills. practice of using laptops to take notes, as A World Literacy Foundation study estimated opposed to using long-hand may be impairing The study used eye-tracking, high-resolution that illiteracy costs the global economy more students’ ability to learn. EEG brain wave measurements and conventional less cognitive effort required than US$1 trillion through lost job opportunities. questionnaires to evaluate three key metrics: to process paper-based The study follows in the wake of earlier studies • Cognitive load — ease of understanding direct mail than Recently, South African Deputy President, Cyril which primarily looked into students’ abilities digital media • Motivation — persuasiveness, and Ramaphosa, said that fewer than 5% of parents to multitask and how that affects studying. This • Attention-span — how long subjects looked in South Africa read to their children. latest study shows that even when used at the content. exclusively for note taking, laptops may still be Research suggests that the way to equip impairing learning, because the information Direct mail requires 21% less cognitive effort to children for a life of literacy from infancy is to processing process is shallower than it would process than digital media, suggesting it is both share picture books with them. A compelling be using long-hand. easier to understand and more memorable. body of evidence from high income countries, 70 % Post-exposure memory tests validated what shows that children’s language development Laptop note-takers tend to transcribe lectures the cognitive-load test revealed about direct and literacy skills are facilitated by book sharing verbatim, as opposed to long-hand note takers mail’s memory encoding capabilities. When with a caregiver, beginning in infancy. There who process lectures and reframe the information asked to cite the brand (company name) of an greater brand recall when seems to be something special about the in their own words. Laptop note-takers perform exposed to printas opposed advertisement they had just seen, recall was process of book sharing. Providing training in worse than long-hand note-takers when to digital-advertising 70% higher among participants who were sensitive early book-sharing could play a major answering conceptual questions about lecture exposed to a direct mail piece (75%) than a role in boosting the educational prospects of content. digital advert (44%). children living in poverty. 77 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References megatrend urbanisation People Globally, 1.5 million people are moving to cities every week. 78 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Prioritising our people They made it possible… The quality of our people, their dedication, prepare ourselves for an exciting future in Equally, throughout history it has been the resourcefulness and drive has made it possible adjacent businesses as we unlock and quality and the commitment of the people to overcome the transformative challenges commercialise the potential of plantationand involved which has been the key element of that have come with the realignment of our forest-derived bioproducts. success. businesses. The globalisation of ideas, knowledge and Our people need to understand the world of Because of their tenacious optimism and values is driving global-scale transformations tomorrow and how to position Sappi within pragmatic approach to achieving productivity in unforeseeable ways with dramatic impact. that world to grow and prosper. gains and strategic change, we are in a stronger position today, than when we Our experience reminds us that we need to It is therefore critical that we attract and retain embarked on our realignment strategy to make continuously adapt and prepare for the the right people and that we correctly train, Sappi a profitable and growing company in transformative change these megatrends will equip and empower them. this ever-changing world. bring. Providing the right employee experience is From this position of strength we now have Throughout history, connectedness has driven critical to differentiating us from other the opportunity to continue on a path of every social, political and economic aspect employers in a competitive market and enables intentional evolutionary change — grow our of our lives — creating opportunity and adding us to attract and retain talent. existing pulp and paper businesses and value. 79 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References One Sappi — a hyperconnected diversity equipped to evolve † e and 9% Whit African d:1 -Sou th le non ‡ people, 16% kil s 940 Un 12% s Eu Semi-skil ee ro loy pe p : led te m 5,372 people, 4 9 ‡ 5,25 frica: chn ‡ 1% 2% e, 4 ical A opl In 2015, we employed † uth pe % : 43 of 12,753 * 32 o glo people of global emplo l: %† S a ba dvantaged: 4,704 ‡ pe and ic yee sa 791** Contractors and n i s d le ch usly ople temporary employees evio te , 84 To execute our strategy of intentional evolution, r we need a diverse, engaged workforce who d P % lil e understand the world of tomorrow to position ourselves to take advantage of future trends k % — to grow and prosper. merica: 2,122 pe ‡ 22 o rth A al employe ple, S No 7% of glob es Continuing to invest in our people enables us 1 % 16 to both create and seize opportunities. The cornerstone of this approach is making resources available that enable our people to people, 97% e: 1,988 grow intellectually and bring new ideas to 6% Whit † 3% fruition. le, op pe We aim to create an environment where everyone 72 can live up to our values of doing business with es : riti integrity and courage, making smart decisions no Mi which we execute with speed. † of previously disadvantaged employees. ‡ Headcount as at 30 September 2015. * Full-time equivalents (FTEs). ** Excludes approximately 12,000 people who work for Sappi Forests (South Africa) contractors. Women as a percentage of own employees. 80 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Creating an environment for living up to our values Compensating fairly Recognising achievement Managing performance Our compensation programmes are designed Recognition plays a role in motivating employees Regionally, we present the following awards: While we invest in formal training and to achieve our goals of attracting, motivating and establishing a high level of connection to • Europe development programmes, we realise that and retaining employees who can drive the the business. The annual Coryphaena award which potential is not only developed through training achievement of our 2020Vision. recognises truly exceptional achievements. courses which develop competencies and skills. At a global level we present two annual awards: • North America The primary components of pay include base • Technical Innovation Award, and The quarterly Risk Taking and Ingenuity We provide our employees with opportunities salary, benefits eg medical and retirement, • Group Chief Executive’s Award awards to gain new experiences and through personal annual incentive awards and long-term Recognises outstanding leadership • South Africa development plans which are based on creating incentives. behaviour and contributions to our business. The Excellence in Achievement Awards. the right conditions and circumstances which allow people to develop their careers. Compensation levels are set to reflect competitive market practices and internal equity as well as We also conduct regular talent reviews in order company and individual performance. to ensure that we have the right people for the right job. Eligible employees who have completed a performance review, or who were in the process of doing so at financial year-end Uncompleted Completed Sappi Europe Sappi North America Sappi Southern Africa Sappi Trading 90% of employees are eligible 34% of employees are eligible 85% of employees are eligible 100% of employees are eligible Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male 94% 92% 78% 77% 58% 60% 99% 97% 81 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Retention initiatives ge Re ima lia d ble an Gre an d an at d br ent co fi ed m urag Talent managem pa d att d ny un Gre ra ure so n Enco Interesting rot ct ly as lleng ial ati at ive Me o co ing nc Tru ed na Job k Liv m tw ste or pa ues Cha d, Val On ec ny -th Pr k a eoj ts gt m jo en nc w m em or nd co ure Te Gr b a Se rm Pe lt ea rning ility Ac rfo cu lea co Gr ob unt ab ea tJ Grow t ch ing th Coa Conduci ve Learning environme Mentoring Enabling our people to grow and develop nt Our goal of being at the forefront of technological innovation is underpinned Retention Defined style Creative/n by the recognition that we need to develop our people in order to hone cialon-finan Leade deve rship lopm their personal and career development as well as our own competitive s G ent p advantage. We create opportunities and make resources available to erio r ward rea tl Eng age rogr ams Sup rmance ves e ititi Co enable our people to grow intellectually and bring new ideas to fruition. per fo lin G rs a cia rea de ch ea De tr ve Sc Sp lop Com Training and development programmes are reviewed on an ongoing basis es e Ot m arc Ins kil he itm rk pire rs to ensure they remain relevant to the changing needs of our people, the e Valu orm ls n wo nsf tt Ke e Motivatio o ys Addres s o Tra business environment and Sappi. Our approach to training is decentralised. r et e G c cog re o kil a m Each mill, function, business unit and region takes responsibility for training. ac nict t ls l co m p s Poor m Poor behaviou at nal incenti Five-year regional training targets allow us to monitor our progress. Re pa re pu ion ny ta tyle tion ent Gr as nm Developing leaders ea a ves iro t co g nv de r m pa ny an Having a strong leadership pipeline is critical to achieving our 2020Vision ity un and also underpins our sustainability as an organisation. We are developing plans to accelerate leadership development and will report on this in 2016. 82 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Training and development Average training spend per emplyoyee Training spend by region Average training hours per employee by gender Spend ratio US$ US$ million Hours Skills development: Compliance training % Sappi Trading Europe Compliance training 1,000 150 0.122 2.992 11 800 120 600 90 400 60 200 30 South Africa North America Skills development 0 0 Europe North South Sappi Group 4.004 0.533 Europe North America South Africa Trading 89 America Africa Trading Women Men Target Average training spend per employee Average training hours per employee Per capita regional training spend in local We monitor training by gender to ensure that currencies is reported in our Annual Integrated female employees are being provided with the Report. same development opportunities as their male colleagues. Average training hours per employee by employment category North America South Africa Sappi Trading We track spend per category ensure that training Average training hours per employee Average training hours per employee Average training hours per employee is directed where most appropriate and where Hours Hours Hours skills gaps have been identified. 60 120 60 50 100 50 Europe Disclosure per category is legally prohibited. 40 80 40 30 60 30 20 40 20 10 20 10 Top management Senior management Professional and Skilled technical and Semi-skilled Others middle management academically qualified Note: All Sappi Southern Africa training and development numbers exclude Lomati Sawmill, as the mill’s SAP reporting system does not align with the group’s systems. 83 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Training and development continued Europe North America South Africa Increasing interactivity to enhance training Acclimating our employees Global Leadership Academy A key component of our Employability Strategy The EDGE (Enhancing Development and Growth Thirteen employees participated in the Sappi is to ensure that both managers and staff take through Engagement) programme is targeted Leadership Academy, a global programme run joint responsibility to nurture employability at leveraging the engagement of young on a regional basis, which targets highthrough personal and professional development. employees in order to retain them. performance individuals and is designed to This leads to increased engagement in learning develop leadership behaviours. and training opportunities, mobility across jobs, The programme took place over two and a half and functional mobility. Fostering a culture of days during which the group focused on The programme comprises three one-week life-long learning supports our strategy. personal branding, project management, peer residential blocks as well as project work spread coaching and power and systems, which over the year. Against this backdrop, we recently launched explored human and organisational dynamics. Universe, a digital learning platform aimed at The Academy is a key aspect of our efforts to providing support before, during and after any All of this was done to help our young employees develop a leadership pipeline. form of development and learning such as acclimate to working with different generations, training. By increasing the interactivity between improve everyday job skills and build camaraderie South Africa our employees and internal trainers, as well as with their peers. The facilitators were open to Enabling young talent between participants, the impact of the training feedback and evolved their techniques to make can be effectively prolonged. sure participants were getting the most out of We support 50 bursary students of whom 32 each session. After the sessions, the group was are historically disadvantaged South Africans. invited to participate in monthly peer coaching sessions. Of the total group, 15 are studying forestry; seven are registered for MSc or PhD studies in line with our research and continuous development strategies. The other 28 bursars are studying engineering. Our training and development opportunities in South Africa are discussed in more detail in the regional Sustainability Report. The quality of our people, their dedication, resourcefulness and drive has made it possible to overcome the transformative challenges that have come with the realignment of our businesses. 84 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Measuring engagement A strong correlation… Survey 2015: Goals and focus Survey 2015: Highlights Language diversity Clear evidence continues to link employee In September 2015 we conducted a Global The global response rate was 73%. Areas Although English is the primary language used engagement to an organisation’s bottom line. Employee Engagement Survey, the objectives covered (in alphabetical order) were: throughout the group, key communication of which were as follows: • Development and empowerment materials, for example, the Global Employee According to Gallup, on average, employees • Measure changes in employee opinions and • Ethics and values Engagement Survey or the communications who are engaged and thriving have an perceptions of Sappi as a place to work • Image and customer focus campaign to promote the revised Mission, absenteeism rate almost three time lower than since conducting the 2013 baseline survey • Leadership and direction Strategy, 2020Vision and Values, are adapted those who are actively disengaged and suffering. • Measure the evolution of sustainable • Operational efficiency for each region and disseminated in the engagement at Sappi, and • Safety and wellbeing appropriate languages of each region. • Understand what drives sustainable • Supervision Companies with both highly aligned cultures engagement among our employees. • Sustainable engagement Simplified Chinese and highly aligned innovation strategies have • Talent and recognition, and 17% higher profit growth than companies with Given the strong correlation between company • Teamwork and communication. Dutch low degrees of alignment. performance and sustainable engagement, we focused on the latter objective which measures We are in the process of developing English Southern Africa We recognise that ascertaining levels of employee commitment and motivation, as well comprehensive plans to address gaps and will employee engagement is important in achieving as enablement and wellbeing. report on our progress towards these in 2016. English United Kingdom our goal of building a workforce that is engaged, Preliminary results show that: enabled and energised. Accordingly, we Our overarching aim is to build a culture of high English United States of America continue to measure levels of employee employee engagement that unlocks the potential Significant improvements engagement every alternate year. of all our people and connects them deeply to Compared to the 2013 Global Employee our mission, strategy, 2020Vision and values. Engagement Survey, there were significant Finnish Employee engagement is one of our 2020 global improvements in leadership and direction, as goals. well as operational efficiency. German Traditional engagement Sesotho En Moving Towards Sustainable Engagement There is strong traditional engagement — 85% of respondents said they were willing to go the Siswati ple extra mile; they exhibited strong emotional eo ged Engaged attachment and rational buy-in to the group. ga IsiZulu P Employee Enabled One Tools and resources Sappi Engagement Most respondents say they have the tools and Ene d resources they need; but, only 44% say they le a b Energised are not confronted with obstacles. rg is E n ed Employee Engagement Survey 01–25 September Personal accomplishment There was a downward trend regarding a sense of personal accomplishment. 85 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Business success through diversity Our success is based on the diversity of our people. The rationale Case study North America Celebrate our differences in human capital I Can at Shaw Research Centre Planning for pending retirement Members of an organisation who think alike or This diversity brings with it different skills sets We have embarked on a disability joint project We ensure that employees receive training to are trained in similar disciplines with similar and backgrounds, as well as unique ways of with an organisation called I Can in terms of increases their skills and proficiency for their bases of knowledge run the risk of becoming doing things and different ways of thinking which we are sponsored by the fibre processing current position and for future opportunities. insular in their ideas. innovatively. All of which enhance our ability to and manufacturing (FP&M) Sector Education service diverse, rapidly evolving global markets. and Training Authority (SETA) to support ten As we are facing turnover due to a large number Instead of exploring alternatives, a confirmation disabled learners from previously disadvantaged of pending retirements and are hiring new bias takes over and members tend to reinforce We celebrate our differences in human capital backgrounds for a 12-month National employees at a relatively high rate, delivering one another’s predisposition. In other words, and strive to create a workplace free from Qualifications Framework (NQF) SETAongoing training that effectively grows the skills collaboration becomes stronger when different discrimination and harassment; acknowledging accredited learnership at our Sappi Shaw of our employees is essential. people from different cultures and skills sets are and accepting differences among our people Research Centre in KwaZulu-Natal. involved. with respect to age, class, ethnicity, gender, physical ability, race, sexual orientation and Against this backdrop, our success is based spiritual practice. on the diversity of our people. We view diversity as a key driver that enhances our competitiveness and sustainability. 86 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Gender diversity We celebrate our differences in human capital and strive to create a workplace free from discrimination and harassment; acknowledging and accepting differences among our people. Women in our workforce Men Women Women tend to be under-represented in our workforce due to the nature of our operations being a predominantly 12% 16% 22% 42% 71% manufacturing environment that requires shift work. We are nevertheless making progress towards gender equality as reflected in our new hires. Line management are mandated to facilitate the employment of women by Europe North America South Africa Sappi Limited Sappi Trading ensuring that those working on shifts are safe and that bathroom facilities are available to them. Gender diversity Sappi boards Sappi Limited board Sappi Limited Sappi Europe Sappi North America Sappi Southern Africa Executive Committee subsidiary board subsidiary board subsidiary board 18.4% of our global workforce 12 2 9 7 1 8 13 is women Note: Employee numbers are reported on a full time equivalent (FTE) basis; employment equity numbers are reported as headcount on 30 September 2015. 87 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Ethnic and age diversity Europe and Sappi Trading Age diversity Sappi boards Ethnic diversity Sappi Limited board Sappi Limited Sappi Europe Sappi North America Sappi Southern Africa Executive Committee subsidiary board subsidiary board subsidiary board The definitions of ‘diversity’ differ in each country where we operate in Europe, as they do in the 50 yrs 1 2 2 5 3 Age diversity countries that fall under Sappi Trading. 51-60 yrs 6 6 6 2 9 Consequently, diversity indicators for these regions are not included in this report. 61 yrs 7 0 0 1 1 South Africa Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Ethnic diversity Sappi boards Caucasian Other North America Ethnic diversity Minorities In South Africa, where employment equity falls 3.5% under Broad-based Black Economic 29% 11% 13% 0% 15% Empowerment (BBBEE) legislation, our employee diversity profile is monitored quarterly by the South African lead team and discussed monthly at every business unit’s Equity Forum. Sappi Limited board Sappi Limited Sappi Europe Sappi North America Sappi Southern Africa Executive Committee subsidiary board subsidiary board subsidiary board Each human resources manager and hiring manager is required to recruit in accordance with the employment equity plan in place at their site. We report in more detail on BBBEE in our regional Sappi Southern Africa Calculated DE as a % of total cadre Sustainability Report 2015. South Africa Historically disadvantaged South Africans as a percentage of cohort Previously disadvantaged 17% 23% 51% 74% 98% 99% 83% Top management Senior management Professional Skilled technical and Semi-skilled and discretionary Unskilled and defined South Africa academically qualified decision making decision making Note: Employee numbers are reported on a full time equivalent (FTE) basis; employment equity numbers are reported as headcount on 30 September 2015. 88 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Monitoring absenteeism, turnover and new hires A certain turnover rate is needed to bring new Employee turnover by region Employee absenteeism people with new skills into the business to drive innovation and a fresh approach while % % maintaining a certain level of continuity. 20 5 Our turnover rate of 12% in 2015 is in line with the total global turnover rate for the manufacturing 15 4 and distribution industry which in 2014 stood at 13.7%. 10 3 2 Turnover includes retrenchments, retirements 5 and non-renewal of contracts. 1 0 Actual resignations were 3% in 2015. Europe North America South Africa Sappi Limited Sappi Trading Group Europe North South Sappi America Africa Trading Involuntary turnover* Voluntary turnover (resignations) Monitoring turnover by gender and age group is strategically important. A disproportionately * Non-renewal of contracts, voluntary retrenchments, An employee absent from work because of incapacity of high number of women leavers could indicate retirements and exits for operational requirements. any kind, not just as the result of work-related injury or discrimination. Similarly, an extremely high disease. number of younger people leaving could indicate that they are not being given sufficient career opportunities. New hires by gender Men Women 12 % global turnover 18% 16% 31% 24% Europe North America South Africa Sappi Limited Diversity enhances our ability to service diverse, rapidly evolving global markets. 89 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Engaging constructively with trade unions We proactively seek to keep our employees healthy, thereby enhancing productivity, reducing stress and enabling creativity and innovation. Globally, approximately 63% of our workforce Ensuring disciplined behaviour Freedom of association Forced or compulsory labour is unionised, with 69% belonging to a bargaining unit. Disciplined behaviour is essential not only for We have identified no operations or significant We have identified no operations or significant individual wellbeing, but also to ensure our group suppliers where the right to exercise freedom suppliers where the right to exercise freedom Overall, the year under review was characterised goals and objectives. In each region, disciplinary of association and collective bargaining has of association and collective bargaining has by amicable, but tough negotiations and codes ensure disciplinary procedures, while been violated or is at significant risk. been violated or is at significant risk. relatively good relationships with organised grievance policies entrench the rights of labour across the geographies. employees, including the right to raise a Similarly, we have identified no operations and grievance without fear of victimisation, the right Child labour significant suppliers as having significant risk to seek guidance and assistance from a member for incidents of forced or compulsory labour. of the Human Resources department, or their We have identified no operations and significant representative, at any time and the right to suppliers as having significant risk for incidents appeal to a higher body, without prejudice. of child labour. Percentage of employees belonging to collective bargaining units Belonging to a bargaining unit 89% 64% 53% 15% 11% 69% Europe North America South Africa Sappi Limited Sappi Trading Group 90 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Communicating operational changes We create opportunities and make resources available, enabling our people to grow intellectually and bring new ideas to fruition. Operational changes are of key concern to all Termination employees, particularly those represented by trade unions and/or bargaining units. To the extent that there are employee lay-offs, South Africa we provide severance pay to all employees and, In South Africa (including Sappi Limited) , the Forestry conditions of employment are Overall, we aim to communicate any changes in some instances, outplacement assistance. implementation of significant operational implemented on 01 April every year and are to our people timeously and transparently. changes is governed in terms of section 197 regulated by ministerial sectoral determination. Europe and section 189 of the Labour Relations Act, The normal notice period applies. In Europe, information about significant 66 of 1995. The Act does not prescribe a Career endings operational changes needs to be provided at a specific notice period in this regard. However Sappi Trading time when planned changes are concrete the standard practice is a minimum of 30 days, Sappi Trading does not employ a large staff Access to retirement planning services is enough to enable proper consultation. and a maximum of 60 days’ notice for complement: Hong Kong (43 employees), Sappi provided on a regional basis and in some consultation in case of a large-scale restructuring Southern Africa: Sappi Exports Services (17 instances this is supported by financial wellbeing Finland is the only country in which we operate process. The recognition agreement concluded employees), Mexico (13 employees) and the programmes. where the process is followed-through according with the majority union (CEPPAWU) recognises others have less than 10 employees each. to a set timeline. the provision of the Act in this regard. Most of the companies within Sappi Trading are North America SSA is party to the Bargaining Council for the not covered in collective agreements except for In North America, the notice period in terms of Wood and Paper Sector as well as Forestry Austria, Brazil and South Africa. Federal Law is 60 days. within South Africa. In the case of Sawmilling and Pulp and Paper, collective bargaining is Details regarding operational changes are not conducted at industry level under the auspices specified in collective bargaining agreements. of the bargaining council. The constitution specifies when parties should submit issues of bargaining for the particular year and when the negotiations should commence. 91 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Promoting wellbeing, health and safety Proactively seeking to keep our employees Wellbeing programmes North America Aids Action Committee healthy enhances productivity, reduces stress and enables creativity and innovation. Employee wellbeing programmes are Occupational health We support the AIDS Action Committee (AAC) decentralised and each mill, together with the Our practice is governed through standards of Massachusetts by participating in the annual Promoting wellbeing also has a direct impact mill lead teams, decides on their priorities for and best operating practices aimed at preventing AIDS Silent Auction. To date, we have raised on the bottom line. A 2014 Harvard Business the year. harm to employees at work. US$257,000 and shortly after year end, made Review study of 20 companies found an average over US$40,000 in goods and services available annual health care cost of 1-2% for companies Programmes vary across the mills and include The major risks we are challenged with due to for bidding. with wellness programmes, compared to the preventative medical health care check-ups; flu our work environment are noise, vapours, fumes 7% national average. vaccinations and immunisations as well as and ergonomic risks. To mitigate the noise risk, support of employee sports and social activities, we conduct repeated hearing loss measurements Health and safety committees amongst other things. and have focused on reducing or eliminating noise levels in the work environment. Health and safety committees are in place at Europe all our operations. Through these committees, Employee wellbeing programmes are Employee wellbeing our people are consulted about the development/ decentralised and each mill, together with the Employee wellbeing programmes focus on review of policies and procedures and changes mill lead teams, decides on their priorities for educating, empowering and providing that affect workplace safety or health. the year. Programmes vary across the mills and employees with the skills to take ownership of include preventative medical health care checktheir wellbeing. The programmes include support Europe ups; flu vaccinations and immunisations as well against: • Obesity • Substance abuse (alcohol Formal committees are in place at different levels as support of employee sports and social and drugs) • Basic counselling for referrals to of the business in line with statutory requirements activities, amongst other things. external providers • Financial wellness • Trauma 100% of all Sappi Europe employees are counselling • Work stress issues • Other health represented by the safety committees. North America issues, and • Relationship issues. We encourage all salaried and hourly employees North America (and their spouses) who participate in one of All unions have the opportunity to participate Sappi‘s medical plans to complete a Health Primary health care HIV/AIDS mortality rate — Sappi Southern Africa in joint management worker safety committees. Risk Assessment (HRA) questionnaire. We continue to focus on HIV/AIDS and % 64.5% of the employee population is unionised. tuberculosis as primary health care issues. We continue to have wellness events, such as 2.1 National average 2% South Africa — including Sappi Limited healthy cooking demonstrations and Wellness At some of our mills we have partnered with 1.8 Health and safety representatives are elected Webinars, at our sites. the provincial health services to provide chronic 1.5 from non-supervisory staff. In line with legislation, medication and HIV/AIDS retroviral drugs to the 1.2 there is one representative for every 50 workers. South Africa clinics at our mills. The complexity of the South African workforce 0.9 Sappi Trading and employment legislation has resulted in a The mortality rate from HIV/AIDS within Sappi 0.6 No formal joint management/worker health and more structured employee wellbeing function. Southern Africa has been reducing steadily over 0.3 safety committees exist due to the small number We categorise our health and wellbeing time. of people in each office, but there are appointed programmes based on occupational health, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 safety officers. primary health care and employee wellbeing. 92 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Unlocking safety Our management approach to safety Safety leadership Unlocking safety during Sustainability Week The pulp and paper making process presents The Group Head: Technology, who reports In 2015, we extended our traditional Global several safety risks including the use of certain directly to the Chief Executive Officer, is Safety Awareness Day — the tenth of its kind substances/products, operation and responsible for safety throughout the group. — to a Sustainability Week. This allowed senior maintenance of machines, exposure to high management in every region to visit more of the temperatures and the transport and handling Management is accountable for safety and will units in their respective areas to demonstrate of different kinds of loads. Globally, forestry is demonstrate leadership through personal their commitment to safety. also recognised as a dangerous occupation. example. Building on the 2014 theme of ‘Walk the talk’, Recognising the safety risks inherent in our We also expect and encourage every employee the theme in 2015 was ‘You are the key that industry, we strive to establish a culture of zero to take responsibility for their own health and unlocks safety’. This theme emphasised that incidents based on a healthy workforce working safety and give our employees the necessary a safe working environment is only possible under safe conditions, with the necessary skills skills, tools and training to do so. when everyone at all levels of the organisation and comprehensive training. is committed to safety and encouraged each Sappi employee to take a leadership role in The OHSAS 18001 Safety Management System safety. underpins the group’s safety strategy. The reporting of ‘near miss’ incidents is an integral Our 2016 theme, ‘I see, I say’ will encourage part of our Incident Reporting Standard. Safety every employee to display courage and act experts in the group analyse the near miss decisively as stated in our values. reports in order to establish trends which enable the safety platforms to develop corrective action. Our investigations focus on root causes rather than apportioning blame. Practical support is supplied in the form of workshops, training sessions, a safety bulletin and monthly sharing of good practices and of learning from mistakes. Our culture and goal of zero incidents and accidents is underpinned by our team oriented, behaviour-based safety (BBS) approach. To achieve this, safety risk managers meet on a quarterly basis in a regional safety platform. Common problems and solutions, as well as lessons learnt from inside and outside the group, are discussed and assimilated. The key components of the regional platforms are the analysis of trends and the development of corrective action. We strive for zero safety incidents. 93 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Group safety performance Sappi Europe, Alfeld Mill, fire drill. Improvements in lost time injuries (LTIs) were The fatalities involved: the overturning of a loader Lost time injury frequency rate Group fatalities Own employees and contractors Number of people evident throughout the group with new on a steep slope, a chainsaw accident during LTIFR II benchmarks being achieved in every region. harvesting and an accident involving a skidder. 0.8 60 4 Noticeable improvement was reported in work0.7 50 related incidents, the result of a concerted focus The Sappi management team takes the 0.6 3 on reducing the impact of injuries in our unacceptable trend in the number of fatalities 0.5 40 workforce by continued and concentrated focus in 2015 very seriously and has instituted the 0.4 30 2 on driving down the severity of accidents and following mitigation actions in response to the 0.3 of near misses. accidents described: 20 0.2 1 • In terms of loader overturning, we have 10 0.1 Tragically, there were three fatal contractor implemented far more rigorous training of 0 0.0 0 injuries during the year in Southern Africa. We the drivers and increased supervision 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 deeply regret these fatalities and view them in • We conducted refresher training for all Contractors Own employees Contractors Own employees Contractors II Own employees II a very serious light. chainsaw operators and appointed an independent assessor to verify chainsaw Group lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) Group fatalities We remain committed to achieving the goals of operator felling practices, and our formal safety campaign, Project Zero, and • We have reviewed and improved on the From a safety perspective, the LTIFR of all In November 2014, a Bell loader operator was are as concerned about the safety of our procedure for timber bundle extraction. regions continued the positive downward trend. killed when his vehicle overturned on a steep contractors as we are about that of our own slope. employees. Tragically, in South Africa there were three fatal injuries during the year. The severity of these In February 2015, a chainsaw operator was Our aim is that safety should be an entrenched accidents is reflected in the increased Injury killed during harvesting operations in KwaZuluvalue and a 24/7 ‘way of life’ for all our employees Index (II) for contractors. Natal. and contractors worldwide. Learn more about our safety terminology and In September 2015, a chocker man was killed LTIFR. in an accident involving a skidder in KwaZuluNatal. 94 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Regional safety performance – Sappi Europe If they can, so can we… With a nod to Abbey Road, London, made famous by The Beatles in 1969, management at Sappi Alfeld Mill promotes safety with an ‘If they can, so can we…’ emulation of one of the most famous and copied images, of the era. Key safety statistics Significant accomplishments Focus going forward Contractor incidents are now treated as own employee incidents. There is no difference in • LTIFR: 0.76 (FY2014: 1.04) Kirkniemi Mill • FY2016 target LTIFR ≤ 0,70 for own analysis, discussion and prevention of accidents. • 34 LTIs (FY2014: 44) The most significant improvement for own employees and an ongoing LTIFR The contractor lost time injuries increased from employees with 3 LTIs (FY2014: 10). improvement for contractors. 16 in FY2014 to 20 in FY2015, but there were Improvement was also noted in the more • Implement the agreed safety strategy for three major projects with many contractors on complete collection of working hours. Alfeld Mill Sappi Europe based on leadership behaviour, site, consequently the LTIFR decreased from LTIFR of 0.18 – only one LTI recorded. engagement of all, focus on pre-work risk 3.42 to 3.19 in FY2015. In September 2015 Sappi Europe found that assessments and not ‘Looking away’ — ‘I approximately 650,000 manhours were not Alfeld Mill and Sappi Europe R&D see it, I say it’. There is room for improvement at Lanaken Mill, accounted for which will be corrected in FY2016. Awarded the internal Golden Safety Award in • Continue to apply the Sappi Performance where LTIs increased from 5 to 8. May 2015. Engine and PDCA (Plan Do Check Act). • Further intensify cooperation and Europe — Lost time injury frequency rate Gratkorn Mill communication between the mills on safety Own employees and contractors Improving trend with 12 LTIs (FY2014: 15). performance and initiatives facilitated by the LTIFR II 5 1,400 EU Safety Platform. • Implement and follow-up existing and new 1,200 4 safety best-practices, continue with inter1,000 regional exchange of learnings and 3 800 application of useful tools and statistics 2 600 (safety toolbox). 400 • Complete, as far as possible, automated 1 collection of working man-hours. 200 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Contractors Own employees Contractors II Own employees II 95 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Regional safety performance – Sappi North America Our safety performance benchmarks in the upper 20% compared to the North American paper industry according to the AF&PA. Key safety statistics Significant accomplishments Focus going forward Because our use of contractors is well managed, single incidents have a significant impact on the • LTIFR: 0.48 (FY2014: 0.56) — below the Allentown Sheeting Facility • Increase personal ownership for own safety safety statistics of the region. Our contractors FY2015 budget and the second best LTIFR Zero Lost Time OSHA recordable injuries. and workmate safety. experienced one significant lost time incident achieved in this region’s history. • Engage with labour unions, focusing on task in FY2015 which occurred during the cold • 12 lost time/restricted incidents (FY2014: 14). Cloquet Mill teams. outage at Somerset Mill. • Best ever OSHA Incidence Rate (OIR): 1.01. One million hours worked without a lost-time • Streamline pre-job hazard assessment and • 25 recordable incidents (FY2014: 44). incident as of 07 October 2015. improve preventative actions on high-risk In terms of safety performance, SNA benchmarks • LTISR: 19.6 (FY2014: 17.5) — the second tasks. in the upper 20% compared to the North best rate ever. Somerset Mill • Improve new employee orientation/training America paper industry according to the AF&PA. • Lost and restricted workdays increased 160 days without an OSHA recordable — and groom front line supervisors. slightly by 10%, driving a slight decline in previous record 82 days. • Communicate best practices and corrective performance compared to FY2014. actions across the mills. North America— Lost time injury frequency rate Technology Centre Own employees and contractors LTIFR II One million hours without an LTI. 3.5 100 3.0 80 2.5 60 2.0 1.5 40 1.0 20 0.5 0.0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Contractors Own employees Contractors II Own employees II 96 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Regional safety performance – Sappi Southern Africa The unacceptable trend in the number of Key safety statistics Significant accomplishments Focus going forward fatalities in 2015 has received enormous focus by the Sappi management team with a number • LTIFR for own employees: 0.46 — the best • Stanger Mill Achieve: of new initiatives, including forestry contractor ever. LTIFR of zero in December 2014 and 650 • Zero fatal accidents training and operator certifications. • LTIFR for contractors: 0.28 against the days without an LTI by year-end. • An LTIFR of better than 0.40 for own regional target of 0.53. • Cape Kraft Mill employees and contractors • II own employees: 37.21; contractors: 37.49 Achieved zero LTIFR and one year without • An II of less than 7.00 for all categories of against the target of 7.60 — the result of a LTI in December 2014. employees by: three fatal accidents and three amputations • Ngodwana and Saiccor Mills • Continuing to engage with employees and which occurred during the year. Recorded a steady downward trend for contractors in safety drives by means of • Ten out of eighteen operating units achieved LTIFR, with Ngodwana Mill FY2014 on 0.22 mini safety conferences and coaching to zero own LTIs for 12 months or more, and and Saiccor Mill on 0.36. bring the ‘hearts and minds’ of all six units achieved zero contractor LTIs for • Ngodwana Mill employees back to safety 12 months or more. Achieved one million manhours without an • Maintaining momentum the BBS LTI in February 2015. programme • Saiccor Mill • Managing the psychological aspects of Achieved one million manhours without an change to maintain focus during disruptive Own-LTI on 11 November 2014 and again periods, and on 24 March 2015. • Improving communication lines with • Tugela Mill contractors. Achieved one year without an Own-LTI in July 2015. South Africa — Lost time injury frequency rate Own employees and contractors LTIFR II 0.8 60 0.7 50 0.6 40 0.5 0.4 30 0.3 20 0.2 10 0.1 0.0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Contractors Own employees Contractors II Own employees II 97 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Driving meaningful change in communities Whether it’s our plantations in South Africa, the Case study Case study natural forests from which we source woodfibre Nepal earthquake Ideas That Matter — North America in Europe and North America, or the towns and cities in which our mills are located; we actively Globally, we supported the appeal by relief The Ideas That Matter programme aims to engage with and are part of the communities organisations for assistance for the people of recognise and support designers who use their where we are located. Helping address the Nepal, following the devastating earthquake skills and expertise to solve communications needs and concerns of our communities which struck the country on 25 April 2015. problems for a wide range of charitable activities. enhances our licence to operate, entrenches our reputation and aligns with our goal of being We matched donations by our staff in all regions, Since 1999 approximately US$5 million has a responsible corporate citizen. collectively raising the equivalent of US$28,000 been disbursed to around 220 campaigns in for the Red Cross. This donation was used for the USA. The key themes of our corporate social the humanitarian and rebuilding efforts in Nepal. responsibility (CSR) initiatives include community In 2015 we initiated the People’s Voice Award welfare, infrastructure, education, environmental and offered the design community the chance conservation, with particular reference to Case study to participate directly in the grant programme greening and tree planting projects. Save Food initiative by voting for their favourite projects. The grant that received the most Facebook ‘Likes’ For Sappi, sustainable CSR projects are those In June 2015, Sappi became a member of the benefitted from a US$5,000 bonus to escalate which enable communities to progress further Save Food initiative, signalling a firm commitment the reach, impact and influence of their project. than they would have on their own — projects to better protection of all foodstuffs the world that allow people to leverage their energies and over. The 2015 winner of this award was a project talents to sustain themselves, creating entitled Visual Nourishment: Cultivating Greater meaningful change. Save Food is a joint initiative of the Food and Engagement in Worcester’s Environmental Agriculture Organization of the United Nations Community. This project seeks to inform, Mills in each region support local community (FAO), the United Nations Environment engage, and spread the spirit of environmental projects ranging from youth clubs, community Programme (UNEP), Messe Düsseldorf and and food justice to the Worcester community. centres, vulnerable groups, sports clubs, Interpack, the world’s leading trade fair for This was achieved through the design of a visual environmental education and paper donations. processes and packaging. identity and campaign comprising vegetable twist ties, posters for farmers’ market stands, The bulk of our spend is allocated to the and an online plant guide. Southern African region, where the developmental needs are greater than in the other regions where we operate. Our initiatives in South Africa are described in detail in our Sappi Southern Africa Sustainability Report 2015. Further details of our management approach to societal support, together with the amount spent in 2015 and case studies, are outlined in the We are a member of the Save Food initiative, firmly ‘Key material issues’-section of this report. commitment to better foodstuffs protection. 98 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References megatrend Planet climate change Action on climate change requires shifting investment flows to unlock low-carbon business opportunities. 99 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Treading more lightly… by doing more with less 1.6 planets required to regenerate According to the Global Footprint Network, we are in global ecological overshoot, 2.0 planets required to regenerate the resources the world’s the resources the world’s depleting the very resources on which population currently use population will use in human life and biodiversity depend. in a year. a year by 2030. Our business depends on natural resources. We recognise that conducting our business in an environmentally sustainable manner is an integral obligation to our licence to operate. It also makes sound business sense, and is in our best interest to use these resources as responsibly as possible. As the world increasingly recognises the value of woodfibre-derived products, opportunities, based on this renewable and biodegradable natural resource, are opening up. 100 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Treading more lightly on the Planet is contingent upon… People Climate change Pla rity ne spe t o Pr Effluent/ Stre water returned redi amflo n rec w tio tio n ac W str water Plan qu ate Ab ocess tat ali r Pr ion ty rity s/f or Pla Water spe es Pro net ts ody certificatio rty f-cust n -pa — ird • Fossil Th in-o fuel FSC ® Cha s Treading • Woodfibr P EF Cabon seque Energ y more lightly Forests nge isions e ate cha Emm C™ strat Ecology People Clim ion People : so il he •S ls fue a le l Although Prosperity, People and Planet ab t Pla ha FI ® w nta are all interlinked, our current and future ne ti s bi nd Re o viability as a business and our performance Waste on dive r in the People and Planet areas are y Lan dfil Re use sit l contingent on successfully generating Beneficiation Prosperity on behalf of all our stakeholders. erity Plan sp e Our ability to deliver value creation for our Pr t o shareholders by focusing on Prosperity through improved profit, strategic positioning and debt reduction, lies at the Climate change rity heart of our commitment to sustainability Plan spe et Pro and treading more lightly on the Planet. People 101 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our global planet performance at a glance — a five-year view Energy Energy — a five-year view Emissions — a five-year view Water — a five-year view Woodfibre and plantations 57 9 % 17.2 % 35.1 m3/adt PJ/ annum 492,000ha generated increase in energy reduction in Scope 1 water drawn owned, managed or leased on site self-sufficiency (direct) GHG emissions plantations in South Africa FSC®-certified Approximately 52 % of the energy we 8 % reduction in specific 16.0 reduction in Scope 2 % 2.1 % reduction in specific 30 % of our landholdings are use is renewable energy consumption (indirect) GHG emissions process water managed for biodiversity extracted On average 43% energy 6% increased use of 16.9% reduction in total GHG 91.8% of water drawn is returned 79% of our global fibre use is self sufficient renewable energy emissions intensity after being treated FSC®-, PEFC™or SFI®-certified 102 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Environmental management systems enable us… We follow a lifecycle approach to environmental We maintain systems that monitor environmental We have environmental targets in each region. management including minimising the performance and legal compliance at each Targets are reported on quarterly to the environmental impact of our operations’ raw mill, including energy dashboards, integrated management teams in each region, on a regular materials and energy sources; developing new water management, air emissions, waste and basis to the Global Sustainable Development production methods and products and finding effluent plans. Council and biannually to the Social, Ethics, innovative ways of beneficiating waste. Transformation and Sustainability (SETS) Committee. We are committed to managing and mitigating We identify opportunities to save water and We take appropriate, pre-emptive action to We use internationally recognised, independently our environmental footprint, energy at every step in our production processes, improve or mitigate identified environmental verified certification systems including: the climate and biodiversity starting in our plantations, where we apply bestrisks. FSC® Forest Stewardship Council® impacts of our operations. practice management techniques to produce PEFC™ Programme for the woodfibre with properties that require less Endorsement of Forest We achieve this energy and water during pulping. Certification™ by working towards SFI® Sustainable Forestry Initiative® the Planet commitments (woodfibre) embodied in our ISO 9001 Quality management system Sustainability Charter. ISO 14001 Environmental management system OHSAS 18001 Safety management system To realise our commitments, We invest in research and development. We keep up with environmental best practice EMAS Eco Management and Audit we have a far-reaching through a number of internal environmental System in Europe, and Environmental Management 'clusters' comprised of experts in various fields. ISO 50001 Energy management system. System which includes the systems described here that enable us to Our certificates of compliance are published mitigate our environmental online and summarised in ‘Our certifications’ footprint. FAQ. 103 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Ensuring sustainable fibre supply responsibly 5.7 million tons FY2015 total fibre consumption We do not procure woodfibre from endangered forests anywhere in the world. Sappi Southern Africa, Eucalyptus plantation. Fibre sources and species used Woodfibre, energy Europe North America Southern Africa and water, are our We do not own plantations or land in this region. As in Europe, we do not own plantation forests We do not use any indigenous wood. We source most important or land in this region. woodfibre from softwood and hardwood Woodfibre is mainly sourced from certified and plantation forests. Owning, managing and leasing production process controlled forests in the regions where our mills Wood is sourced from certified and controlled 492,000ha of plantations give us a competitive inputs. Ensuring a are located. forests landowners and commercial loggers in advantage. Our aim is to produce low-cost wood sustainable woodfibre the temperate forests of Maine, New Hampshire, with the requisite pulping characteristics and Softwood and hardwood pulp are both sourced Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin and from increased yield. We actively pursue this aim, supply is therefore a from certified market-pulp suppliers in Europe the Canadian provinces of Alberta, New particularly through genetic improvement of key priority. and the Americas. Brunswick, Quebec and Ontario. planting stock through plant breeding. We therefore continue to investigate and classify Wood species used include: spruce (used for Tree species used include: maple, poplar, aspen, timber species according to their respective Groupwide, we benefit mechanical pulp and softwood chemical pulp) beech and birch (hardwoods) and spruce, pine pulping characteristics and end-pulp quality. from a high level of and beech (used for hardwood pulp). and fir (softwoods). economic pulp Approximately two-thirds of our owned and Lanaken Mill can also process significant leased plantations are planted to commercial integration, which amounts of poplar. tree species, the remaining third is covered by reduces the impact of natural vegetation and managed for conservation. pulp-price fluctuations The hardwood:softwood market-pulp ratio has increased significantly in recent years. The main The softwoods we use are all pines including: on our consolidated market-pulp hardwood we use are eucalypt Pinus patula, P elliottii, P taeda and some group results. species. Poplar, birch and mixed hardwood hybrids. The hardwoods we use are mostly account for a small portion of total hardwood eucalypts: Eucalyptus grandis, E dunnii, E consumption. The softwood species we use nitens, E smithii and a range of hybrids. We also include spruce and pine. use wattle, Acacia mearnsii. 104 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Ensuring sustainable fibre supply responsibly continued Mitigating fibre-supply risk Developing tree farmers Europe South Africa We mitigate fibre-supply risk through Encouraging entry into the industry and helping shareholdings in wood sourcing co-operatives to develop tree farmers in South Africa 79 % of our global fibre use and a combination of approaches which include both shortand long-term wood supply agreements. consolidates the industry and aligns with the South African government’s focus on rural development. is FSC®-, PEFC™or SFI®-certified North America Our Project Grow enterprise development We mitigate fibre-supply risk through a initiative — a tree-farming scheme focused on combination of approaches which include both supporting subsistence farmers, community shortand long-term wood supply agreements. forestry projects and forestry projects handed to land-reform beneficiaries — contributes to South Africa securing of our woodfibre supply. 2015 was a The severe drought in KwaZulu-Natal, during record year for Project Grow. The scheme, which this past year, has posed a challenge. enhances the security of our woodfibre base, supplied more than 360,000 tons of fibre into In this province, the supply of bagasse, one of our mills, thereby injecting several hundred Stanger Mill’s key inputs, has been affected with million rands into the local economy. Our Group yields decreasing from 80 tons of sugar cane Sustainability Charter per hectare in 2009 to 30t/ha in 2015. Project Grow farmers entering into a supply agreement with Sappi are guaranteed a future reinforces our Accordingly, we are investigating the possibility market — Sappi, being a global concern with commitment of using sawdust, sourced from sawmills in the an ongoing, growing need for woodfibre gives to promoting vicinity of the mill, as an alternative fibre source. them certainty that they will not be left with As bagasse cooks more quickly than wood, we stands of trees because Sappi is no longer in sustainable forestry have been investigating optimum ways to the market for timber. through process sawdust on a laboratory scale which internationally proved to be successful. Using sawdust would be an interim solution, closing an immediate accredited More than fibre gap rather than a permanent solution. independent 3,800 small growers environmental We are using some burnt timber at Tugela Mill and for unbleached packaging products, which management 42 community projects reduces losses from fires and maximises and available fibre use. farm more than forest certification 21,860ha systems. eucalypt plantations. Eucalyptus nitens wood structure, 221x magnification. Growers supplied more than 360,000 tons of fibre in 2015. 105 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Striving to increase the certified fibre we use… Forest and Chain-of-Custody certification Non-certified fibre Forest products certifications Forest and Chain-of-Custody certification Wood and pulp is sourced from known and and contracts which align with our purchasing We have achieved certification by the three assures our customers that the forest products trusted suppliers close to our mills and are policy. most internationally recognised forest products they buy from us are made from legally harvested visited regularly by Sappi’s buyers. certification programmes: and sustainably managed forests and Environmentaland forestry-related information, • FSC® Forest Stewardship Council® plantations. We strive to increase the amount FSC -controlled wood and PEFC™ Due ® including wood sources, is obtained from every • SFI® Sustainable Forestry Initiative®, and of certified fibre we procure and work with Diligence Systems (DDS) requirements are pulp supplier on a regular basis and this data • PEFC™ Programme for the Endorsement of certifying bodies, and landowners to achieve incorporated into our purchasing specifications is then evaluated by a team of experts. Forest Certification™. this. no f -Cu s t od y ( C oC ) c er t i f i cat i o Ch a i n ti fi ca te cer e nt em ag an t m res o aper production F Pul p /p at e ic t if Co er nv tc n s en tio er ng te c ur ta rs sti l an n em w rve dp O pro Ha an Fibre st s Fore Third-p Con art i e outgro s, s ume we r r s 106 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Striving to increase the certified fibre we use…continued Fibre certification — Europe Fibre certification — North America Fibre certification — South Africa PEFC™ FSC® SFI® CoC Forest and 78% 58% 83% Chain-of-Custody certification assures our customers that of fibre used is of fibre used is of fibre used is the forest products certified certified certified they buy from us are made from legally harvested and sustainably managed forests and plantations. 58% of fibre supplied to our North American mills is FSC®-, PEFC™or SFI®-certified. We include fibre sourced from Certified Logging 83% of the fibre supplied to our Professional and the Maine Master South African mills is FSC ®78% of fibre supplied to our Logger programme toward our certified. All our own, leased and European mills is FSC or ® regional goal of achieving 60% of managed plantations, are FSC®PEFC™-certified. our fibre from certified sources. certified. 107 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Striving to increase the certified fibre we use…continued Forest certification Promoting third-party certification GreenBlue® Forest Products Working Group Helping to enhance plantation sustainability The World Wildlife Fund defines forest North America North America South Africa certification as a: “Mechanism for forest Sappi was the first pulp and paper company in As a founding member of GreenBlue®’s Forest Sappi Forests is a founding member of the Tree monitoring, tracing and labelling timber, wood North America to be granted a group forest Products Working Group, Sappi North America Protection Co-operative Programme (TPCP) and pulp products and non-timber forest management certificate by the FSC®. is heavily involved in an Industry Leadership based in the Forestry and Bio-technical Institute products, where the quality of forest management Committee working on forest certification issues. (FABI) at the University of Pretoria. is judged against a series of agreed standards. Through this certificate, small landowners, who agree to become a member of Sappi’s forest GreenBlue® is a non-profit organisation whose Through the TPCP we are also members of the Credible forest certification covers much more management group, have their land certified in goal is to empower business leadership to build international collaborative programme BiCEP than just logging practices — it also accounts accordance to the FSC® standard. Our ongoing a thriving, resilient material economy. (Biological Control of Eucalyptus Pests) at the for the social and economic wellbeing of workers forest management services and supplier Australian Centre for Industrial and Agricultural and local communities, transparency and outreach programme help to increase certified Utilising a unique Value Innovation Process, the Research (ACIAR). inclusiveness in decision making.” lands in the areas that supply fibre to our mills. group is exploring the key elements of certification that provide value to various We belong to the Eucalyptus Genome Network Our Sustainable Forestry Programme assists stakeholders. We are exploring efficient and (EUCAGEN) based at the University of Pretoria. woodlot owners in the state of Maine to develop cost-effective models (including but not limited Promoting transparency plans for managing and harvesting woodlands. to certification) that would enable small private landowners in the United States to provide Promoting sustainable forest management Global South Africa brand owners the level of assurance they need We provide information about our environmental We have established a group scheme for smallthat they are sourcing fibre from responsiblyEurope performance to a wide range of stakeholders. and medium-scale growers. There are currently managed forest land. CEPI, the Confederation of European Paper more than 205 members in the scheme with Industries, of which Sappi is a member, We participate in both the Carbon Disclosure plantations ranging from a few hundred hectares participates in actions supporting and promoting and Forest Footprint Disclosure Projects, to well over 103,000ha. Working with landowners and certified loggers the development of sustainable forestry publish a series of technical brochures on our management tools — including forest certification website and provide our customers with FSC ®-certification is not yet available to North America — all over the world, particularly in less information about the environmental aspects of microgrowers, largely because of financial We strive to increase supply relationships with developed countries. our fibre sourcing and production processes. constraints. Through the auspices of Forestry certified loggers, and our foresters work with South Africa, we are researching ways of landowners in Minnesota and Maine to improve overcoming these barriers, but this will take forest management and harvesting practices. another two years to be established. Currently timber from microgrowers is recognised as 'controlled wood' and can thus be used to produce FSC®-certified products labelled as 'Mixed Sources'. 108 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Energy — identifying opportunities and mitigating risk Energy, woodfibre and water, are our most important production process inputs. Energy represents both a risk and an opportunity: • Risk We are heavily dependent on energy and the cost of energy is a critical cost factor, and • Opportunity Reducing energy usage reduces costs and aligns with our strategy to develop adjacent businesses. Aggressively managing energy-use and increasing energy-use efficiency, positively Sappi North America, Somerset Mill, Turbine. impacts profitability and environmental A smaller carbon footprint Renewable energy Renewable energy — leading the charge performance. Our specific energy costs, relative to our cost of sales, are trending downwards due to actions we have taken. By using less energy we are reducing our carbon Globally, we’ve increased our use of renewable North America footprint, highlighted by the combined 16% energy, mostly black liquor, by 6% over the past Our use of renewable energy, currently more Steam generation accounts for a significant reduction of our specific Scope 1 (direct) and five years. In FY2015, 52% of the energy we than 70%, is a significant cost benefit and a portion of energy consumed. Steam is used to Scope 2 (indirect) greenhouse gas emissions used was derived from renewable resources; competitive advantage, enabling customers to energise digesters (pulp production), as a heatover the past five years. 73% of which was own black liquor. This is an choose papers with a smaller environmental source for drying pulp and paper and to generate important marketing advantage — consumers footprint. The industry benchmark in this region power. We generate 98.6% of our own steam are increasingly aware of the environmental is 62%. and purchase the balance. FY2015 energy metrics footprint of the products they use — and a strategic advantage in light of possible carbon Graphs on this page and overleaf refer: taxes, carbon budgets and/or carbon levies Global Renewable energy-use decreased slightly; energywhich may be imposed on us in the future. self-sufficiency (graph overleaf) increased slightly. Energy consumption Renewable energy generated Global renewable energy sources Million GJ/a Europe Gratkorn Mill’s energy self-sufficiency decreased % % 100 due to the rebuild of the recovery line. A damaged biomass 100 Own biomass Other boiler at Kirkniemi Mill in Q4 contributed to the decrease. 11% 1% 80 North America Fuel switching and purchased power 80 strategies at Somerset Mill reduced renewable energy Purchased 60 biomass production. Westbrook Mill burned more coal due to 60 13% 40 biomass supply constraints. South Africa Ngodwana Mill’s energy self-sufficiency 40 20 increased due to more steam being produced from 20 renewable fuel — the result of improved black liquor firing 0 Purchased Purchased Own Power Steam and increased bark consumption. Saiccor Mill increased Own black liquor fossil fuels renewable renewable consumption consumption 0 Europe North America South Africa Global 75% fuels fuels black liquor recovery which resulted in more own power 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 generation. Boiler efficiencies improved at Stanger Mill. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 109 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Energy — identifying opportunities and mitigating risk continued Energy self-sufficiency Being significantly energy self-sufficient — 43% in FY2015 — helps to cushion against supply constraints, particularly important in South Africa, where inconsistent energy supply has been affecting industry. Globally we have five hydro, two gas and 31 steam turbines on 14 sites across seven Our aim is to enhance energy self-sufficiency, improve energy efficiency and decrease our reliance on fossil fuels. countries which generate 57.4PJ per annum or 15.9TWh Sappi North America, Somerset Mill, recovery boiler, generating bank replacement. External benchmarks Looking to the future Profit Improvement Plans Energy self-sufficiency % In addition to internal standards, Sappi uses Our aim is to enhance energy self-sufficiency, Profit Improvement Plans (PIPs) are managed external benchmarks to monitor environmental improve energy efficiency and decrease our at mill-level by each section. These smaller scale 80 performance and ensure compliance with best reliance on fossil fuels. improvements/projects require little or no capital 70 practice. spend and can be implemented in a short period 60 We are achieving this by: of time. 50 In terms of energy, we use best practice energy • Making process changes 40 consumptions indicated by: • Installing Best Available Technology (BAT) In the last couple of years, the focus in all regions 30 TAPPI Technical Association of Pulp and which is more energy efficient, and has been on energy efficiency, energy self20 Paper Industries, United States of • Reducing purchased energy (electricity and sufficiency and water savings. We have 10 America fossil fuel) by increasing our use of renewable established energy platforms in each region 0 PAPTAC Pulp and Paper Technical energy — an approach that ultimately results whose task it is to continue to share knowledge Europe North America South Africa Global Association, Canada, and in a reduction in CO2 emissions. on how to improve efficiency and drive the 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CEPI Confederation of European Paper energy strategy in each region. Industries. FY2015 energy metrics Global Renewable energy-use decreased slightly; energybiomass supply constraints. self-sufficiency (graph overleaf) increased slightly. South Africa Ngodwana Mill’s energy self-sufficiency Europe Gratkorn Mill’s energy self-sufficiency decreased increased due to more steam being produced from due to the rebuild of the recovery line. A damaged biomass renewable fuel — the result of improved black liquor firing boiler at Kirkniemi Mill in Q4 contributed to the decrease. and increased bark consumption. Saiccor Mill increased North America Fuel switching and purchased power black liquor recovery which resulted in more own power strategies at Somerset Mill reduced renewable energy generation. Boiler efficiencies improved at Stanger Mill. production. Westbrook Mill burned more coal due to 110 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Energy developments Energy developments — Europe Energy developments — North America Energy developments — South Africa Globally, over five years The energy plant at Kirkniemi Mill was completed At Cloquet Mill we conducted a millwide energy We are proceeding with a biomass-derived six months ahead of schedule — the most Pinch study which has enabled the mill to energy project at Ngodwana Mill. significant development in the group during develop a plan to achieve the region’s five-year FY2015. goal for energy reduction. Pinch analysis is used At Tugela and Saiccor Mills we are investigating to identify energy cost and heat exchanger a cogeneration project and a green power At Lanaken Mill, we have signed an agreement network capital cost targets for a process and project which could generate 10MW and 4MW 6 % for a new gas turbine in October 2014. recognizing the pinch point. The prime objective of electricity respectively. of pinch analysis is to achieve financial savings by better process heat integration (maximising process-to-process heat recovery and reducing Case study increase in the use of Saiccor Mill cogeneration/condensing renewable energy the external utility loads). Somerset Mill has also identified additional Saiccor Mill currently runs five turbines; three opportunities for energy savings including a are small, less efficient and primarily driven by paper machine heat recovery project. steam generated in coal-fired boilers; the other two are combined heat and power (CHP) units Case study driven by steam generated from renewable Somerset Mill PM2 and PM3 heat recovery resources. Heat from both paper machines’ dryer hoods The mill batch-cooks wood in digesters. Steam 9% used to be vented. Equipment has been installed demand is therefore intermittent, resulting in to recover that thermal energy, which is now excess steam being vented into the atmosphere being used to generate approximately 4.6 million when not required by the digesters. litres of hot water per day which is used in the increase in energy self-sufficiency machines. To redress this, we are investigating replacing the three small turbines with a cogeneration The recovered thermal energy will reduce steam and condensing system. When not supplying demand by approximately 474GJ/day, resulting steam to the digesters, the new system will take in reduced fossil fuel use and enable the mill to up process-demand swings. generate additional electrical power. Avoiding steam venting will make the mill The project is expected to avoid generating considerably more energy efficient. 2,210 tons of CO2 every year. While allowing steam to be drawn by the The PM2 heat recovery project was digesters when needed, the cogeneration and commissioned in November 2015, and the PM2 condensing system will generate up to 25MW project was commissioned in December 2015. of power which could be fed into the national grid. 111 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Managing and mitigating climate change Emissions avoidance value The emissions avoidance value was calculated by taking each regional power utility’s emissions factor and comparing it with Sappi’s internal power generation emissions factor. The difference between the two factors indicates that Sappi’s internal power generation is less carbon intensive in certain regions and therefore Consumer concerns about climate change results in carbon emission avoidance.The global economy is becoming increasingly carbon give us the opportunity to develop and market our ‘green’ products. constrained, manifesting in: North America, Cloquet Mill, can swing between producing paper pulp and dissolving wood pulp. • Rising energy prices Emissions intensity reduced Case study Reducing third-party emissions Nanocellulose • Carbon budgets and taxes • Costs associated with emission rights, and • Consumer concerns about global warming During the past five years, we have reduced Scope 2 emissions are emissions that can be A key component of our strategy focuses on our total Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas avoided by a third party. extracting previously untapped value from Climate change could potentially impact water emissions intensity by 16.9%. woodfibre. Aligned with our strategic move into and fibre supply — two of our key inputs. Most of our mills generate power on site from adjacent markets, we have invested in a fossil fuels or renewable resources for own nannocellulose pilot plant which offers the These risks influence our business strategy consumption. In some instances — Westbrook opportunity to build on our established presence which favours climate change remediation. In Mill (Sappi North America), Gratkorn and in lightweight packaging and other materials each region, we aim at maximising the use of Maastricht Mills (Sappi Europe) and Ngodwana — which is important, given the need to reduce renewable energy, thereby reducing the use of fossil fuels — one of the major causes of climate change. 16.9 reduction in % Mill (Sappi Southern Africa) — excess energy generated is sold back into the power grid. carbon emissions. Scope 1 and 2 At some mills, excess heat energy is used for Opportunity GHG emissions district heating projects in the vicinity of Sappi’s intensity mills, thereby displacing fossil fuels. Consumer concerns about climate change give us the opportunity to develop and market ‘green’ Roughly 103,000 tons CO2e emissions have products. thus been avoided during the past five years. Ultimately responsible The individual within Sappi with the highest responsibility for climate change is the Group Head Technology who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. 112 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Managing and mitigating climate change continued An important asset Our plantation assets are an important growth pillar and forest research is conducted into species improvement to maximise yield under different climate change scenarios. Trees use water and sunlight to convert CO2 into carbohydrates, through the process of photosynthesis to provide energy and the Approximately 30% of Europe’s forests are dominated by conifers. building blocks for growth. Carbon removed from the atmosphere is effectively stored in plant Sappi Europe: Both softand hardwood species are used. material and wood — trees act as carbon sinks. Planting more trees in Europe Forests exposed in South Africa Sustaining healthy forests Sappi Europe’s employee-led tree planting Given our ownership of plantations in South • Maintaining wide genetic variability in our initiative started in Spring 2010 in association Africa, our exposure to climate change in this planting material, including drought resistant “Sustaining healthy forests and mitigating and with the Agentschap voor Natuur en Bos (ANB), region is particularly high, especially as the species and hybrids adapting to climate change are two sides of the the equivalent of a national department of country’s water resources are, in a global • Measuring permanent eucalypt sample plots same coin. Forests are the largest storehouses forestry. This organisation is responsible for context, severely limited. annually and pine sample plots biannually of carbon after oceans. The carbon they store planting approximately 30,000 trees every year to determine the effect of drought for use in their biomass, soils and products is equivalent in the Forêt de Soignes as part of the National The country is currently experiencing a severe in long-term planning, and to about 10% of carbon emissions projected Forest Management Plan (Belgium). drought. • Implementing an extensive fire protection for the first half of this century. At the same time, strategy, as climate change exacerbates deforestation and land-use changes account In February 2015, employees from Sappi We moderate the risk climate change poses to the potential for fires. for 17% of human-generated carbon dioxide Europe’s headquarters in Brussels once again our plantations by: emissions.” headed out to the Forêt de Soignes with a batch • Deploying a diverse range of commercial Ban-ki Moon of 1,400 saplings, ready to be planted. A further species and hybrids across a wide range United Nations Secretary General 2,600 will be planted by ANB on behalf of Sappi. of climatic conditions International Day of Forests 2015 This will bring to over 12,000 the number of • Continually monitoring and reviewing forest trees planted by the group since the initiative best practices in the light of changing started five years ago. environmental factors, thus helping to mitigate any increased threat from water Sappi Europe has also provided funds to a shortages or drought tree-planting project in India. 113 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our greenhouse gas emissions Globally, over five years Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) Indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) Total GHG emissions intensity t CO2/adt t CO2/adt t CO2/adt (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) 2.0 0.8 1.0 0.7 0.8 17.2 % 1.5 0.6 0.5 0.6 1.0 0.4 0.4 reduction in Scope 1 0.3 (direct) GHG emissions 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Global No significant change. Global Year-on-year, there was a slight reduction in Global The total global GHG reduction is attributed, in Scope 2 emissions. the main, to process improvements and changes in South Europe The reduced Scope 1 emissions trend continued. Africa and Europe — refer to the detailed discussions 16.0 Reduced specific emissions at Alfeld Mill, compared to Europe Scope 2 emissions decreased slightly, mainly described alongside. % the previous year is attributed to the upgrade of PM2. Stockstadt Mill decreased specific emissions due to due to Gratkorn Mill switching purchased power to 100% renewable sources (mainly hydro power). increased production and more efficient liquor evaporation reduction in Scope 2 in the pulp plant. North America The decrease in Scope 2 emissions is (indirect) GHG emissions attributed to the public utility from which Somerset Mill North America Scope 1 emissions increased. Somerset draws power, reporting a lower CO2/MWh emission factor. Mill burned more natural gas and purchased more electrical Cloquet Mill reduced purchased power. power instead of burning biomass and generating own power as a result of energy price changes in the last year. South Africa Scope 2 emissions decreased. Cape Kraft At Westbrook Mill, more coal was burned because of Mill’s machine efficiencies improved which in turn had a biomass supply constraints. positive effect on the specific purchased power value. Enstra Mill reduced the use of purchased power following South Africa Scope 1 emissions decreased. Enstra Mill the shut of PM3. Saiccor Mill is generating more of its own 16.9 % optimised boiler efficiencies, decreasing the use of fossil power following the completion of Project Buyisa. The mill fuels and PM6 achieved better operating efficiencies on now requires less purchased power and emissions are brown runs. Ngodwana Mill decreased fossil fuel use and reduced. Stanger Mill required less purchased power reduction in total GHG increased own renewable fuels consumption through as the mill suffered water shortages and forced millemissions intensity higher total dissolved solids fired in recovery boilers. The downtime resulting from municipal power failures. implementation of Project Buyisa at Saiccor Mill resulted in enhanced black liquor recovery and thus an overall reduced reliance on fossil fuels. Stanger Mill decreased purchased fossil fuel use and increased own renewable fuels as a result of improved boiler efficiencies. 114 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Our greenhouse gas emissions continued Specific NOx air emissions Specific SOx air emissions Specific particulate matter air emissions kg/adt kg/adt kg/adt 5 8 3.0 7 2.5 4 6 2.0 3 5 4 1.5 2 3 1.0 2 1 0.5 1 0 0 0.0 Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Global No significant change. Global The global increase is mainly attributable to our Global No significant change. South African operations. Europe Emissions were slightly lower because less pulp Europe No significant change. was produced due to the rebuild of Gratkorn Mill’s liquor Europe No significant change. boiler. North America The slight decrease is attributed to North America No significant change. improvements in the No1 hog-fuel boiler precipitator at North America No significant change. Somerset Mill. South Africa Enstra Mill’s SOx emissions increased due South Africa The slight decrease is attributable to to a slight reduction in coal quality. Ngodwana Mill SOx South Africa No significant change. Ngodwana Mill’s improved coal quality and stable operation emissions increased due to improved incineration of nonof the Pulverised Fuel (PF) boiler. condensable gases in the lime-kiln following installation of a multi-fuel burner. Note Europe’s specific NOx emissions are lower than South Africa’s and North America’s due to the degree of integration of these mills. Gas boilers, predominantly used in our European operations tend to have lower NOx emissions than optimised recovery boilers. 115 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Reducing water use and improving water discharge quality Water use in our processes As with other pulp and paper manufacturers, our papermaking processes use large quantities of water to hold, transport and distribute the fibre that becomes the sheet of paper. Water is also an integral part of the steam systems used to generate and circulate energy. Water is circulated several times in the pulp and Intensively managing our water usage presents an economic opportunity. paper production process; only a small portion of the water leaves the process as effluent which Sappi Europe, Lanaken Mill, effluent treatment plant. has to be replaced with fresh water. Water-related energy savings Total water withdrawal by source Specific water returned to extracted Million m /a3 m /adt 3 We return a significant portion of the water we 250 40 1.00 extract back into the environment. Pulp and paper mills use energy to produce hot 35 0.95 200 0.90 water and steam for cooking wood chips, pulp 30 Due to the nature of our processes, it is very 0.85 washing, transporting pulp, drying paper and 25 0.80 difficult to improve on this metric. 150 other applications. 20 0.75 15 0.70 100 Water management is included in our operational 10 0.65 If effluent is allowed to simply discharge (after environmental management plans, which are 5 0.60 appropriate treatment), a huge amount of heat50 0.55 reviewed and updated annually. 0 0.50 energy is lost. Therefore, one of the most 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 0 effective ways of retaining heat-energy within Surface water Groundwater Municipal Municipal Bleaching (river, dam) (boreholes) (potable) (industrial Process water extracted (m3/adt) an operation, is to maximise water recirculation waste water) Effluent discharged (m3/adt) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Ratio of effluent to extracted water and minimise effluent discharge. Avoiding heatEurope All our integrated pulp is totally chlorineenergy losses reduces energy requirements and free (TCF). Market-pulp is either elemental Water withdrawn and returned as a result less fossil-fuel derived GHG emissions chlorine-free (ECF) or TCF. are generated. Global Extraction from surfaceand groundwater South Africa Surface water abstraction decreased as a North America Our mills use the elemental decreased; consumption of potable municipal water result of Saiccor Mill’s drive to reduce water-use. The mill Intensively managing our water usage therefore chlorine-free bleaching process. increased. also implemented small water-saving projects. Potable presents an economic opportunity. municipal water consumption increased due to additional South Africa Our mills use elemental chlorineEurope Consumption of surface water decreased due to water required at Enstra Mill as a result of water imbalances. free or oxygen bleaching sequences. the rebuild of Gratkorn Mill’s recovery boiler and pulp mill Due to dirt contamination on PM2, the machine ran on which resulted in downtime. Some minor measures in potable water only, on a few occasions. water reduction in the region also contributed to the decreased annual consumption. North America Municipal water use increased slightly. 116 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Reducing water use and improving water discharge quality continued Effluent quality Specific COD Specific TSS kg/adt kg/adt Quality of effluent is an important environmental 15 2.0 indicator. We have been steadily improving the quality of effluent we discharge over time. We 12 use temperature, oxygen-level controls and 1.5 other metrics to ensure we comply with all 9 environmental regulations 1.0 6 Over five years effluent chemical oxygen demand 0.5 3 (COD) has declined by 21.8%; total suspended solids (TSS) have decreased by 7.1%. 0 0.0 Europe North America South Africa Global Europe North America South Africa Global 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Global The COD decrease is attributed mainly to improved Global Despite the slight TSS increase in FY2015, the performance by South Africa and Europe. five-year trend remains downwards. Europe COD reduction attributed to: • The rebuild of Europe TSS remains very low despite increasing slightly Gratkorn Mill’s recovery boiler and the reduction of due to reduced filtration performance at Alfeld Mill. own-pulp integration • Increased paper production at Stockstad Mill. North America The TSS reduction is attributed to Cloquet Mill’s increased efficiency of POTW (Public Owned North America No significant change. Treatment Works). There was no change at Somerset Mill. Westbrook Mill improved its WWTP (Waste Water Treatment South Africa COD reduction attributed to the additional Plant) performance. Fine Bubble Diffuser installation at Stanger Mill. See our Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2014, Innovative effluent South Africa The TSS increase is attributed to: Cape Kraft treatment at Stanger Mill, for a more detailed discussion. Mill experiencing sludge centrifuge equipment problems. Enstra Mill experienced increased fibre losses in the transition to brown grades. Tugela Mill increased production without increasing its COD load, resulting in a reduced specific COD. 21.8% decline in effluent COD over five years Sappi Europe, Maastricht Mill, water treatment plant. 117 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Water-use in our plantations — South Africa As South Africa is a water-stressed country, water usage is a significant focus. Our plantations have both positive and negative impacts on the environment. One of the negative impacts is that, generally, they use more water than the grasslands they typically replace. There is considerable variation from place to place and season to season. On a national scale the water used by plantations is relatively small — about 3% of available resources. Viewed in context: irrigated agriculture uses approximately 60% of South Africa’s available water resources. Restrictions on expansion Serious restrictions on expansion have been put in place by the South African government. We believe this misguided, based on the following: • As the only designated streamflow reduction activity, plantation forestry is not irrigated, but pays for the water it uses in what is essentially a 'rain' tax • Our trees are planted away from riparian zones, thereby decreasing the amount of water used • The quality of water emanating from afforested catchments is generally good and much better than most other forms of agriculture, and Plantation forestry Trees are planted away Water emanating from Value added to the • Though difficult to calculate, the value added is not irrigated. from riparian zones, afforested catchments water our plantations to the water our plantations use compares — thereby decreasing the is generally of a better use compares very very favourably with other forms of land use — especially because forestry uses land We pay what is amount of water used. quality than most other favourably with other that has few alternative economic uses. essentially a 'rain' tax. forms of agriculture. forms of land use. 118 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Reducing solid waste and adding value Minimising end-of-life waste Sending waste to landfill adds costs; adding value to waste brings in revenue. We focus on minimising end-of-life waste through waste beneficiation which mitigates environmental impacts, reduces waste-management costs and can generate additional revenue. The least desirable method of solid waste disposal from an environmental perspective is to discharge to a landfill site, because: • Organic waste emits methane (CH4), a greenhouse gas with approximately 25 times the global warming potential of CO2, and • Inorganic waste can leach, resulting in surface and/or groundwater pollution. Globally, most of the solid waste we generate is wood waste — mostly bark. In all regions, this is used as a fuel for on-site energy generation. In South Africa, wood waste is also Wood waste, mostly bark, is used as a fuel for on-site energy generation. used for composting and landfill stabilisation. Sappi North America, Westbrook Mill, biomass feedstock. Global There has been an increase in waste sent to landfill. Global breakdown of solid waste types Specific landfilled waste Disposal methods of solid waste Europe there was a small increase in ash generated due % t/adt % to the rebuild and repair works at Gratkorn Mill. Secondary sludge 2% Process rejects 2% North America The slight decrease in waste sent to landfill 0.30 Sappi Trading Landfill (on site) Soil beneficiation 2% Plastics etc 2% 1.93% 27.67% is attributed to: • Reduced boiler ash being generated at Lime mud 2% Building rubble 1% Somerset Mill because of increased natural gas firing and 0.25 Sappi Trading Wood waste 3% 27.61% lower biomass use • Cloquet Mill increased lime kiln 0.20 capacity, reducing waste sent to landfill. South Africa Waste to landfill increased. Enstra Mill Other 0.15 7% experienced increased fibre losses from paper machines. 0.10 Composting Less waste could be reused at Saiccor Mill and had to be Landfill 2.03% Own bark (off site) sent to an off-site landfill. Tugela Mill operated the 0.05 8.77% 32% Copeland reactor for longer periods than the previous Reuse Other (sold, 0.00 year, which resulted in more waste being sent to landfill. Europe North America South Africa Global 15.95% third-party waste etc) 16.04% Construction waste generated by the spray-dryer project Primary sludge Boiler ashes 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 21% 27% at Tugela Mill further contributed to waste sent to landfill. Bark ash included under boiler ashes and combusted sludges. 119 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Reducing solid waste and adding value continued Used oil Tall oil Lignosulphonates Hazardous waste Used oil is dewatered, chemically treated, At some mills, tall oil, a by-product of the kraft Lignosulphonates, a by-product of the pulping We generate very little hazardous waste — only refined and filtered for re-use in various grades pulping process, is sold to convertors as a process, are recovered from spent pulping 1.34% of our total waste generated is classified of base oils. renewable chemical raw material and used to liquors, and sold to customers for use in other as hazardous. make detergents, lubricants and paint additives. products. Hazardous waste is closely controlled and In Europe and South Africa, lignosulphonates carefully managed, both at our operations and Pigments and dyes Lime are sold to the cement and fertiliser industries the receiving facilities. and for other speciality chemical applications. At Alfeld and Ehingen Mills in Europe, coarse In North America, lime is given to farmers as a In South Africa, lignosulphonates are sold to pigments from repulping internal broke are soil enhancer through a partnership with the customers for use in a dust suppressant product recovered from paper machine effluent and University of Minnesota Extension Service, used in the mining sector. reprocessed to substitute virgin material. In Carlton County By-Products Programme. another process, coating colour is recovered A US$8.5 million investment at LignoTech South from effluent and reprocessed. These partly In South Africa, lime is sold. Africa, our joint venture with Borregaard, will Sappi-patented processes help to increase increase lignosulphonate production capacity material-use efficiency. by 20,000tpa. Solid waste Boiler ash Bagasse pith Sludges, bark and wood are combusted for In North America, inorganic grit removed from energy production in all regions. the chemical recovery process is used for Bagasse supplied to Stanger Mill in South Africa roadbed underlay. is depithed, and the pith given to farmers as a In Europe, dried sludge is used for animal soil enhancer. bedding by farmers. 120 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Soil Soils are increasingly coming under the Our approach South Africa international spotlight amidst findings that ten million hectares of arable land is being eroded Soil quality is a particularly important issue in or degraded annually and that unsustainable South Africa, given that we own, manage and farming methods are stripping the topsoil of lease 492,000 hectares of plantations. The nutrients at 10-40 times the rate that it can be commercial tree species we grow can take up naturally replenished. The loss of topsoil has nutrients from relatively acidic soil and are significant productivity consequences. therefore able to grow on degraded soils not suitable for agriculture. To highlight the importance of soil, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation The trees we grow in our plantations are deep declared 2015 as the International Year of Soils. rooted and long-lived with little or no mechanical cultivation required. As a result, soil structure Soils are the foundation for vegetation which is is maintained or improved. Topsoil nutrients cultivated or managed for food, fibre, fuel and accumulate as nutrients and minerals are taken medicinal products. In addition, soil: up deep within the soil profile. Organic matter Sappi North America, Cloquet Mill, soil reclamation. • Supports biodiversity that accumulates on the plantation floor is a Biomass power generation FSC -certification requirements ® • Stores and filters water, improving the earth’s key source of available nutrients for subsequent resilience to floods and droughts, and tree crops and is managed appropriately during In 2015, we announced the establishment of a To achieve FSC®-certification, forest owners • Helps the earth combat and adapt to climate harvesting and site preparation. 25MW biomass-to-power project which will be need to protect endangered plants and animals change by playing a key carbon storage role. erected at Ngodwana Mill, in Mpumalanga. The and their habitats, ensure they do not damage The greatest concentration of plant nutrient project qualifies Sappi as a preferred bidder soil and water quality, and identify and protect elements are found in those parts of the tree under the South African government’s areas of high value for conservation. Our approach Global where essential life processes are taking place: Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer foliage, vascular tissue, inner bark and root tips. Procurement Programme (REIPPPP). Maintaining and enhancing forest and plantation Stemwood is less rich in nutrients. In our SFI® bio-energy feedstock related objectives soil function is a crucial component of sustainable plantations, most of the nutrient-rich biomass Biomass will be supplied from the mill and from forest management, because soil is the (leaves, twigs, branches and bark) remains our own plantations. The latter should not Through stabilisation of soil, forests minimise foundation of the forest/plantation ecosystem. behind when we harvest and remove the compromise soil quality in any way, as we will erosion and hence reduce the impairment of Accordingly, soil quality and conservation is stemwood in the form of tree trunks. be utilising mostly woody biomass currently left water quality due to sedimentation. Forest and covered by the principles of the forest certification in-field after harvesting — large branches, stem forest plant roots prevent run-off from heavy systems — which we subscribe to — that assure Removing tree trunks can result in a loss of tops, non-utilisable wood (broken trees and rains and with it soil erosion. end-users that our woodfibre comes from minerals and nutrients, but generally in Sappi’s non-commercial species) — from sites that have sustainably-managed forests and plantations. plantations, with crop rotation of many years a low risk of nutrient depletion (sites with deep ­ (8–18 years for pulpwood), deposition of soils on relatively flat areas). PEFC™ forest productivity objectives nutrients, the buffering capacity of the soils and the rate of resupply through the weathering of Nutrient removal will be minimised by leaving To ensure long-term forest productivity, carbon parent material (the mineral material from which most of the nutrient-rich leaves, needles and storage, and conservation of forest resources soil forms) exceeds the rate of removal and thus small branches behind. through prompt reforestation, soil conservation, our soil management is sustainable. afforestation and other measures. 121 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Managing for biodiversity Convention on Biological Diversity Biodiversity in our plantations Assessing bird diversity Assessing mammal data According to the Convention on Biological In South Africa, landscapes dominated by timber Over ten years, we’ve held annual bird-counting We have deployed four 'camera-traps' at a Diversity: “At least 40% of the world’s economy plantations, are perceived, by some people, as weekends, engaging the public, on at least 20 variety of sites on a wide range of plantation and 80% of the needs of the poor are derived being significantly less biodiverse than natural different plantation estates each year. Most of estates over a two-year period. A total of 30 from biological resources. In addition, the richer forests. Past biodiversity studies have our estates have hosted bird-counting mammal species have been recorded — 20 the diversity of life, the greater the opportunity concentrated on plantation stands rather than weekends. Bird counters have recorded 455 were commonly found on multiple estates, at for medical discoveries, economic development, viewing estates or landscapes holistically. On bird species — 47% of all the species that occur more than one site on any given estate — a and adaptive responses to such new challenges average, approximately two-thirds of our owned in Southern Africa. The number of bird species good indication of residency. as climate change.” and leased plantation estates are planted with recorded cumulatively from year to year was commercial tree species, the remaining third is trended to establish whether we had recorded Mammal species on our plantation estates covered by natural vegetation and managed for the full range of species on our estates. We did associated with various habitats Why biodiversity matters to us conservation. not do the same for the mammal data, because Forest sites were varied and only four could be Generalists 3 10 Biodiversity boosts ecosystem productivity Bird and mammal surveys conducted on our monitored at a time. Forest and woodland where each species, no matter how small, has plantation estates, show a significant variety 3 an important role to play. Greater species and number of bird and mammal species from The fact that 125 bird species (27% of all the diversity in turn ensures natural sustainability a wide range of habitats are found on these birds spotted) were recorded every year and for all life forms, contributing to healthy plantation estates. A diverse population of birds that 286 species (63% of all the birds spotted) Woodland 3 ecosystems that can better withstand and and mammals make a significant contribution were recorded during more than half of the Wetland and recover from a variety of disasters and stressors to the conservation of biodiversity, and are good bird-spotting weekends indicates that our water Grassland and like pests and disease. indicators that the mixed-use landscapes of plantation estates provide suitable habitats and 1 woodland Grassland and wetland Grassland 5 our plantation estates are healthy ecosystems that these birds can be considered resident. 3 1 Biodiversity is key to the healthy functioning of in a state of equilibrium. Most of our plantation Only 74 species (16% of all the birds spotted) Grassland and wetland ecosystems like forests or mixed-used plantation estates have been in existence for at least 30 were recorded on only one occasion — these estates like ours. Neither our plantations nor years. can be considered rare on our plantation estates. Biodiversity in European forests these natural forests would be productive without biotic processes taking place in healthy Timber plantations generally replace grassland Cumulative and number of new bird species ecosystems. and, as one would expect, species that favour Around 70% of the forests in Europe are forest and woodlands have become very 500 dominated by two or more tree species. The 8 2 2 It is therefore in our own best interests to ensure common. Although some grassland and wetland 18 11 16 3 remaining 30% are dominated by one tree 35 that the forests (Europe and North America) and species have been negatively affected, many 400 52 species alone, mainly conifers. plantations (South Africa), from which we source of these species are nevertheless still found on 300 0 woodfibre are actively managed to promote our plantation estates. Read more about our 308 308 360 395 413 424 440 443 451 453 Maintaining US forests biodiversity and the health of these ecosystems. efforts to protect wetlands. 200 The amount of US forestland has remained 100 We are currently in the process of formalising In summary: well-managed plantation estates, essentially the same for the last 100 years at a groupwide Biodiversity Policy. with ample areas not planted with commercial about 750 million acres, even though the US 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 tree species, harbour rich bird and mammal population tripled during the same period. diversity. Cumulative New 122 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References megatrend UNGC global responsibility The newly released Sustainable Development Goals will be used as the blueprint for national policy for all UN member states for the next 15 years. 123 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References UNGC signatory since 2008 Our way of living, and ultimately Sappi’s future, is being impacted by a number of megatrends shaping our world — we are embracing these with a focused strategy and some very clear objectives. To reshape Sappi’s future, our 2020Vision draws on the power of One Sappi as we move beyond pulp and paper to unlock and commercialise the potential of woodfibre derived bioproducts. Our strategic evolution is underpinned by a commitment to collaborating and partnering with our stakeholders, and aims to position Sappi as a trusted and sustainable organisation with an exciting future in woodfibre. 124 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Human rights Principle 1 Principle 2 As stipulated in our Group Human Rights Policy As set out in our Group Human Rights Policy, We have identified no operations or significant and Group Human Resources Policy, we we: suppliers where the right to exercise freedom endorse the principles entrenched in the • Require our suppliers to respect human of association and collective bargaining has Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the rights and act in full accordance with our been violated or is at significant risk. International Labour Organisation (ILO). policies and guidelines concerning social responsibility, labour standards and human We have identified no operations and significant We also conform to, and in many cases exceed, rights; and suppliers as having significant risk for incidents prescriptions set out in the labour legislation in • We commit to openly and transparently of child labour. the countries in which we operate. reporting on human rights violations within our value chain, should these occur. Similarly, we have identified no operations and Our labour standards ensure that our significant suppliers as having significant risk remuneration practices are fair, with This policy further commits us to working with for incidents of forced or compulsory labour. compensation levels set to reflect competitive communities in order to address indigenous Principle 1 Business should support market practices and internal equity as well as people’s interests and to resolving land claims and respect the protection of company and individual performance. in South Africa with wide participation and in internationally proclaimed human the best interests of individuals and communities. rights. Our Group Human Resources Policy recognises the right of all people to be treated with dignity, In terms of our Group Supplier Policy, we and prohibits harassment in the workplace. encourage our suppliers to uphold the principles Principle 2 Business should make sure of human rights as set out in the United Nations their own corporations are not complicit Hotlines in all regions allow employees and Universal Declaration on Human Rights. in human rights abuses. suppliers to report human rights abuses in full confidentiality. 125 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Labour Principle 3 Principle 4 We promote freedom of association and sound Disciplined behaviour is essential not only for The Maplecroft Forced or Involuntary Labour labour practices by engaging extensively with individual well-being, but also to achieve our Index 2014 assesses the USA and Europe as representative trade unions. Protecting the right group goals and objectives. medium risk and South Africa as high risk. to freedom of association and collective bargaining is fundamental to the manner in In each region, disciplinary codes ensure In all three regions, labour is sourced on the which we do business. In 2015, globally 63% disciplinary procedures are applied consistently, open market. In rural areas, forest products of our workforce was unionised, with 69% while grievance policies entrenches the rights companies like Sappi are often the only, or major, belonging to a bargaining unit. of employees, including the right to raise a employers in the region which makes the local grievance without fear of victimisation, the right population very dependent on the company We focus on maintaining constructive to seek guidance and assistance from a member and which could in turn lead to exploitative relationships with trade unions, believing that of the human resources department or their behaviour. This is a particular issue in South this is essential to long-term sustainable representative at any time and the right to appeal Africa, which has one of the highest inequality development. Discussions range from to a higher authority, without prejudice. rates in the world. While there has been some Principle 3 Businesses should uphold remuneration issues, to training and progress in reducing poverty in urban areas, freedom of association and the effective development, health and safety and many South Africans in rural areas still endure recognition of the right to collective organisational changes. high levels of poverty underpinned by social bargaining. deprivation and under-development. According We recognise the complexity of the labour to Statistics SA, levels of poverty in rural areas Principle 4 The elimination of all forms situation in South Africa and have established in South Africa are twice as high as in urban of forced and compulsory labour. a number of structures to enhance engagement areas and the majority (58.3%) of poor people as set out in the table below. in the country live in rural areas. Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. In South Africa as in the other regions where we operate, Sappi pays market-related wages Social, Ethics, Transformation Committee Principle 6 The elimination of of the board of Sappi Limited in accordance with local legislation. Furthermore, discrimination in respect of employment in this region, our plantations are 100% FSC®and occupation. certified or controlled; and this forest certification system stipulates the protection of indigenous Transformation Steering Committee/Executive Committee These structures of Sappi Southern Africa peoples’ rights. have been set up to ensure proper governance and We work actively with the authorities and engagement with communities on land-reform projects. In 2013, National Employment Equity and Learning Forums all stakeholders. we made it a contractual obligation for our forestry contractors to pay their workers in accordance with the minimum wage stipulated by government Business Unit/Corporate Employment Equity for the agricultural sector. Further details are and Learning Forum provided in our Sappi Southern Africa Sustainability Report 2013. 126 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Labour continued Principle 5 Principle 6 Our Group Human Rights Policy explicitly forbids We recognise that the creation of an equitable Where an unfair or discriminatory practice has the use of child, compulsory and forced labour. working environment, in which the dignity of all occurred, employees are able to make use of individuals is respected and the diversity of all the grievance procedure to lodge their grievance. Our Group Supplier Policy states that we employees is valued, represents an essential Employees also have access to a hotline encourage our suppliers to adhere to national foundation for sustainable growth and telephone number where they can report labour law and to internationally proclaimed competitive advantage. incidents of this nature. human rights, particularly those relating to child labour and forced labour (including prison and We are committed to promoting diversity and In South Africa we have employment equity slave labour). inclusion so that all employees can develop targets to promote economic and social their full potential, irrespective of their gender, transformation of the previously disadvantaged. ethnicity, disability, age, religion, belief or sexual orientation. We administer our People policies, Women tend to be under-represented in our programmes and practices in a non-discriminatory workforce due to the nature of our operations Principle 3 Businesses should uphold manner in all aspects of our relationship with our — a manufacturing environment which involves freedom of association and the effective employees, including recruitment, hiring, shift work. recognition of the right to collective assessments, work assignments, promotions, bargaining. transfers, terminations, wage and salary Line management are mandated to facilitate administration and selection for training and the employment of women by ensuring that Principle 4 The elimination of all forms development. women working on shifts are safe and ensuring of forced and compulsory labour. that female bathroom facilities are available. The Group Human Resources Policy and the Principle 5 The effective abolition of Group Human Rights Policy state that Sappi We are making progress — indicated by the child labour. prohibits “discrimination based on race, gender, fact that 24% of new hires are women, with colour, ethnicity, age, religion, political and women accounting for 18.4% of the workforce. Principle 6 The elimination of sexual orientation, union membership, physical discrimination in respect of employment disability or HIV/AIDS status.” and occupation. 127 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Environment Principle 7 As stated in our Group Sustainability Charter • Using internationally accepted, independently Our Group Climate Change Policy and Group Environmental Policy, we verified forest certification systems including Our Group Climate Change Policy states: “As acknowledge that we do have an environmental the Programme for the Endorsement of reducing deforestation of the world’s endangered footprint, but are committed to managing and Forest Certification®, the Forest Stewardship and tropical forests can help to reduce global mitigating the environmental, climate and Council® and the Sustainable Forestry warming, we commit to: biodiversity impacts of our operations. Initiative®. Globally, 79% of the fibre supplied • Utilising wood fibre from 100% sustainably to our mills is certified, the rest is procured managed forests and plantations in The precautionary approach places the onus from known and controlled sources, and accordance with our Group Wood and Fibre on Sappi to anticipate harm before it occurs • Working with landowners in North America Procurement Policy — healthy productive and to take active steps to prevent any harm and South Africa to enable conformance forests absorb carbon dioxide, thereby from occurring. We achieve this by: with forest certification systems. helping to mitigate global warming • Conducting ongoing research into the • Collaborating in research and development impact of our activities and investigating We view conducting our business in an programmes to address the challenges of Principle 7 Businesses should support methodologies to improve our performance environmentally sustainable manner as an climate change a precautionary approach to at our research centres around the world obligation — one which is integral to our licence • Improving our forestry operations through environmental challenges. • Continuously monitoring our environmental to operate on an individual, community, country tree breeding that allows for greater yields performance and setting environmental and global level. per hectare, reduces the risks from pests targets and diseases, and improves drought • Conducting thorough environmental impact It also makes sound business sense, given that tolerance, and or risk assessments before the start of any we depend on natural resources such as water • Promoting the recycling of paper and paper new activity and woodfibre for our ongoing viability as a packaging products.” • Alignment with best available technology business and it is in our interest to use these (BAT) resources as responsibly as possible. • Ongoing investment in research and development to come up with solutions to environmental challenges • Using dashboards in each mill to monitor performance such as energy usage and emissions • Conducting internal audits of our mills and plantations • Appointing a technical manager and/or risk manager and, at some mills, an environmental manager whose role is to monitor legal compliance in terms of emissions, solid waste and effluent, as well as to reduce fossil fuel consumption 128 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Environment continued Principle 8 At the heart of our business is a renewable, The efficiency ratio of condensing power plants Over five years we have: recyclable natural resource — woodfibre. We is well below 40%. In other words only 35% to • Reduced energy consumption within our use this to create pulp, paper and dissolving 45% of the energy content of the primary fuel organisation by 8% and energy intensity by wood pulp solutions which enhance the lives is converted into usable energy. However CHP 12.5% of consumers around the world. plants convert a much higher portion (60-90%) • Decreased direct (Scope 1) and indirect of the primary fuel into usable energy. (Scope 2) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions We take a holistic approach to protecting the by 17.2% and 16% respectively and reduced environment, beginning with the responsible Gas and steam cogeneration power plants are absolute emissions intensity by 16.9% procurement of wood that is grown and harvested in operation at the following mills: Gratkorn, • Increased energy self-sufficiency by 9.1% sustainably and sourced only from well-managed Kirkniemi, Lanaken and Maastricht. • In terms of air emissions, reduced SOx forests and plantations. We are committed to emissions by 14.3%, and decreased reducing our use of traditional fossil fuels, Steam-based cogeneration power plants are particulate matter emissions by 42.3% lowering both our environmental footprint and in operation at the following mills: Alfeld, Cloquet, • Disappointingly, NOx increased by 4% Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to energy costs. We focus on the efficient use and Ehingen, Ngodwana, Saiccor, Somerset, • In terms of effluent quality, decreased promote greater environmental recovery of materials used in the manufacturing Stockstadt, Tugela and Westbrook. chemical oxygen demand (COD) by 16.5%, responsibility. process in order to minimise waste. and total suspended solids (TSS) by 30.2% We track key metrics for fibre, emissions, energy (both statistics include Saiccor Mill), and Principle 9 Encourage the Our energy efficiency is enhanced through our usage and the impact of our operations on air, • Decreased solid waste by 9.3% development and diffusion of ongoing drive to make process improvements water and solid waste. We use this data when environmentally friendly technologies. and install more efficient equipment and through setting improvement goals related either to our We are a constituent of the FTSE/JSE our extensive use of cogeneration. operations or our interactions with our key Responsible Investment Index and the FTSE/ stakeholder groups — employees, customers JSE Responsible Investment Top 30 Index. To Most conventional power generation is based and our local communities. achieve this, we were assessed on our on burning a fuel to produce steam, the pressure environmental, social and governance of which turns turbines and generates power. In 2015, we established overarching global goals performance. Our inclusion in these indices Cogeneration, or combined heat and power in addition to the regional goals established in indicates that we are succeeding in our goal (CHP) makes use of more than one form of each region to deal with specific issues. — set out in our Group Sustainability Charter energy provided from a combustion source — — of treading more lightly on the Planet. steam is generated from a combustion source (coal, natural gas and biomass) which is used to generate power and the excess steam (passout steam), usually in the form of relatively lowtemperature steam is exhausted from the power generation turbines. Such steam is suitable for a wide range of heating/drying applications in the manufacturing process and effectively displaces the combustion of carbon-based fuels. 129 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Environment continued Principle 8 continued Group In North America, we: In South Africa Annually, we provide information to the Carbon • Play an active role in Living Lands and • We own, manage and lease 492,000 • We are involved in a number of environmental Disclosure and Forest Footprint Disclosure Waters, a non-profit, environmental hectares of land, of which approximately projects, two examples being: Projects and make our submission publicly organisation focused on cleaning up 30% is managed for the conservation of • A co-operative initiative to ‘Save the available. We also achieved a score of 99C in America’s great rivers and forest restoration. natural habitats (including indigenous Midmar Dam’ , and the 2015 Carbon Disclosure Project. forests) and the biodiversity they contain. • The Warburgia Salutaris project. Once • Are working on a fishway project near • Have established a group scheme for small widespread, the Warburgia Salutaris (WS) In each region we sponsor environment-related Westbrook Mill, enabling natural fish passage and medium growers. There are currently (pepper bark tree) in its natural habitat is publications accessible to the general reader. through a portion of the Presumpscot River over 205 members in the scheme with on the brink of extinction. for the first time in more than 150 years. plantations ranging from a few hundred In Europe we: • As a founding member of GreenBlue’s Forest hectares to well over 103,000 hectares in In 2013, the Kruger National Park (KNP) WS • Have embarked on an eco-effectiveness Products Working Group, we are heavily size. project was nominated as the beneficiary in campaign whereby Sappi people share their involved in an Industry Leadership Committee • As a major land owner in South Africa, we the Typek Earth Kind™ Green promotion run stories about achieving greater levels of working on forest certification issues. recognise that we have an important role by Sappi and a major retailer. The money environmental responsibility. Utilising a unique Value Innovation Process, to play in promoting multiple-use of our raised and project coordination provided by • Demonstrated our continued commitment the committee is exploring the key elements landholdings. Our land provides a resource Sappi kick-started a project whereby Sanparks, to environmental sustainability by of certification that provide value to various for planned recreational activities. We SANBI and the Agricultural Research encouraging customers to help us support stakeholders. Efforts are under way to support non-motorised activities such as Commission are identifying, collecting and charity WeForest at Labelexpo Europe. explore efficient and cost-effective models mountain biking and bird watching on our growing 30,000 trees for distribution to Postcard invitations encouraging customers (including but not limited to certification) that land, aligning with our commitment to communities around the KNP over the next to visit Sappi’s stand at the expo included would enable small private landowners in promoting a healthy lifestyle and nurturing three years. a sticker. For every sticker placed on a the US to provide brand owners the level an appreciation for nature and the sustainable special wall at the show, we increased our of assurance they need that they are lifestyle use of renewable resources. We Sappi’s Shaw Research Centre is also involved sponsorship of WeForest to plant new trees. sourcing fibre from responsibly managed have partnered with mountain biking clubs in determining alternative propagation WeForest is an international non-profit forest land. and event organisers, allowing access to techniques. organisation whose mission is to create and our plantations and natural areas in promote a pioneer movement in large — Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal. These focused efforts are helping to enhance scale sustainable reforestation to halt global • In 2014, we created the Earthkind Agent the sustainability of the tree. warming. electronic sustainability game to educate our people about key aspects of our environmental performance. In 2015, we launched a tablet version (iPad and Android) of the game, giving access to our suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. The game for laptops and the links to the Apps can be found on our website. 130 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Environment continued Principle 9 In line with our strategy of intentional evolution This is a culmination of our three year project Significant about our process is the use of which includes seeking growth opportunities with Edinburgh Napier University to find a low unique chemistry, which has allowed us to very by producing innovative performance materials cost energy-saving process that would allow easily break down the wood pulp fibres into from renewable resources, we have identified Sappi to produce the nanocellulose on a nanocellulose. There is no expensive chemistry nanocellulose as a key growth area. We are commercially viable basis — and importantly required and, most significantly, the chemicals currently building a pilot-scale plant for low-cost without producing large volumes of chemical used can be recycled and reused without Cellulose NanoFibrils (nanocellulose) production waste water associated with existing techniques. generating large quantities of waste water. at the Brightlands Chemelot Campus in The Netherlands. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 131 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Anti-corruption Principle 10 The Social, Ethics, Transformation and No issues have been raised regarding Sappi One of the platforms used by the business to Sustainability (SETS) Committee, amongst other with regards to compliance with the Convention measure adherence to the Code of Ethics is the things, monitors our activities with regard to either externally or internally. Ethics Hotline. The types of complaints received matters such as social and economic by the Ethics Hotline are at par with the development, including the UN Global Compact The Sappi Code of Ethics and the Sappi values benchmark average. Hotline calls are monitored and the OECD Policy Guidelines for Preventing complement each other as a guide to appropriate quarterly and disclosed annually in our Annual Corruption, with particular emphasis on Section behaviour and actions. Integrated Report. VII of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises dealing with Combating Bribery, Bribe Solicitation and Extortion. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 132 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References megatrend GRI the growth of emerging economies By 2030, two thirds of the world’s middle class will live in the Asia Pacific region. 133 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures Key: • AIR Sappi Annual Integrated Report 2015 • SDR Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 (this report) • SASDR Sappi Southern Africa Regional Sustainability Report 2015 • Blue page numbers are links General standard disclosures Where reported G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (such as Chief Executive Officer, chair, or equivalent senior SDR, Leadership messages, page 3 position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organisational profile Where reported G4-3 Report the name of the organisation. AIR cover,“SDR cover” G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. AIR, pages 25-27 G4-5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. SDR, About this report, page 5 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant AIR, map, pages 16-17 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. AIR, Nature of business (shareholding etc), page 92 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). AIR, Our business, pages 16–17 AIR, Our products, pages 25-27 G4-9 Report the scale of the organisation, including: a Total number of employees a SDR, Our investment case, page 57 b Total number of operations b SDR, Targets, page 9 c Net sales (for private sector organisations) or Net revenues (for public sector organisations) c SDR, Sustainability in context, page 58 d Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations) d AIR, Sustainable business model, page 2 e Quantity of products or services provided. e SDR, Our value add, page 75 G4-10 Report the composition of the workforce, including: SDR, People, page 80 a Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender b Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender c Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender d Report the total workforce by region and gender e Report whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors f Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). 134 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures continued Organisational profile continued Where reported G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. SDR, Key material issues, page 46 SDR, People, page 90 G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. AIR, Our sustainable business model, page 2 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, SDR, Key material issues, page 36 including: a Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions b Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations) c Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation. SDR, UNGC, page 128 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes SDR, Stakeholders, page 32 or which it endorses. SDR, UNGC, page 124 G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations in which the SDR, Stakeholders, page 5, 26, 27, 32 organisation: SASDR • Holds a position on the governance body • Participates in projects or committees • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views membership as strategic. Identified material aspects and boundaries Where reported G4-17 List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. AIR, Financial statements, page 74 Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. SDR, About this report, page 6 Explain how the organisation has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content. 135 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures continued Identified material aspects and boundaries continued Where reported G4-19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. SDR, About this report, page 6 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organisation, as follows: SDR, Key material issues, page 34 • Report whether the aspect is material within the organisation. • If the aspect is not material for all entities within the organisation (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: • The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or • The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material. • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organisation. G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation, as follows: SDR, Key material issues, page 34 • Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organisation • If the Aspect is material outside of the organisation, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation. G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Not applicable G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. Not applicable Stakeholder engagement Where reported G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. SDR, Stakeholders, page 15 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. SDR, Stakeholders, page 17 G4-26 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, SDR, Stakeholders, pages 17, 18-33 and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to SDR, Stakeholders, page 18-33 those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. 136 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures continued Report profile Where reported G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. SDR, Scope of this report, page 5 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). SDR, Scope of this report, page 5 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). SDR, Scope of this report, page 5 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Graeme Wild, Group Head Investor Relations and Sustainability G4-32 'In accordance' option: a Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen. Core b Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. SDR, page 6 c Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-33 Assurance: SDR, About this report, page 6 a Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. c Report the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers. d Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. Governance Where reported G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees AIR, Governance report, pages 54-60 responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and integrity Where reported G4-56 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. SDR, Code of Ethics, page 8 AIR, Governance, page 60 137 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures — Material aspects Economic performance Where reported EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed SDR, Our value add, page 75 Report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis including the basic components for the organisation’s global operations as listed below. If data is presented on a cash basis, report the justification for this decision and report the SDR, Stakeholders, page 21 basic components as listed below: • Direct economic value generated: • Revenues • Economic value distributed: • Operating costs • Employee wages and benefits • Payments to providers of capital • Payments to government (by country) • Community investments. Economic value retained (calculated as ‘Direct economic value generated’ less ‘Economic value distributed’). To better assess local economic impacts, report EVG&D separately at country, regional, or market levels, where significant. Report the criteria used for defining significance. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change SDR, Key material issues, page 53 Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in operations, revenue or SDR, Planet, page 112 expenditure, including: • A description of the risk or opportunity and its classification as either physical, regulatory, or other • A description of the impact associated with the risk or opportunity • The financial implications of the risk or opportunity before action is taken • The methods used to manage the risk or opportunity • The costs of actions taken to manage the risk or opportunity. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations AIR, Compensation report, pages 62-68 a Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organisation’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. b Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: • The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them • The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at • When that estimate was made. c Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the time-scale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. d Report the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. e Report the level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). 138 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Indirect economic impacts Where reported EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported SDR, Communities, page 21 a Report the extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. b Report the current or expected impacts on communities and local economies. Report positive and negative impacts where relevant. c Report whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts SDR, Prosperity, page 58 a Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organisation has. These may include: SDR, Our value add, page 75 • Changing the productivity of organisations, sectors, or the whole economy SDR, Our industry’s value add, page 76 • Economic development in areas of high poverty • Economic impact of improving or deteriorating social or environmental conditions • Availability of products and services for those on low incomes • Enhancing skills and knowledge amongst a professional community or in a geographical region • Jobs supported in the supply chain or distribution chain • Stimulating, enabling, or limiting foreign direct investment • Economic impact of change in location of operations or activities • Economic impact of the use of products and services. b Report the significance of the impacts in the context of external benchmarks and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. 139 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Environmental — energy Where reported EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation SDR, Key material issues, page 55 a Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. SDR, Planet, page 109 b Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used. c Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: • Electricity consumption • Heating consumption • Cooling consumption • Steam consumption. d Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: • Electricity sold • Heating sold • Cooling sold • Steam sold. e Report total energy consumption in joules or multiples. f Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. g Report the source of the conversion factors used. EN5 Energy intensity SDR, Planet, pages 51, 55 a Report the energy intensity ratio. SDR, UNGC, page 129 b Report the organisation-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. c Report the types of energy included in the intensity ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. d Report whether the ratio uses energy consumed within the organisation, outside of it or both. EN6 Reduction of energy consumption SDR, Planet, pages 55, 109, 111 a Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. b Report the types of energy included in the reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam. c Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. d Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services SDR, Planet, pages 55, 109, 111 a Report the reductions in the energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting period, in joules or multiples. b Report the basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption such as base year or baseline, and the rationale for choosing it. c Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. 140 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Environmental — water Where reported EN8 Total water withdrawal by source SDR, Planet, page 116 a Report the total volume of water withdrawn from the following sources: • Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans • Ground water • Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organisation • Waste water from another organisation • Municipal water supplies or other water utilities. b Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused SDR, Key material issues, page 54 a Report the total volume of water recycled and reused by the organisation. SDR, Planet, page 116 b Report the total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal reported under Indicator G4-EN8. c Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. Environmental — biodiversity Where reported EN13 Habitats protected or restored SDR, Planet, page 122 a Report the size and location of all habitat protected areas or restored areas, and whether the success of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. b Report whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect or restore habitat areas distinct from where the organisation has overseen and implemented restoration or protection measures. c Report on the status of each area based on its condition at the close of the reporting period. d Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. 141 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Environmental — emissions Where reported EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) SDR, Planet, page 114 a Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. b Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). c Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. d Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. e Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. f Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source. g Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) SDR, Planet, page 114 a Report gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. b Report gases included in the calculation, if available. c Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. d Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. e Report the source of the emission factors used and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used or a reference to the GWP source, if available. f Report the chosen consolidation approach for emissions (equity share, financial control, operational control). EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity SDR, Planet, page 114 a Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. b Report the organisation-specific metric (the ratio denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. c Report the types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3). d Report gases included in the calculation. EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions SDR, Planet, page 114 a Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce emissions, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. b Report gases included in the calculation (whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all). c Report the chosen base year or baseline and the rationale for choosing it. d Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. e Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. 142 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Environmental — emissions Where reported EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions SDR, Planet, page 115 a Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: • NOx • SOx • Persistent organic pollutants (POP) • Volatile organic compounds (VOC) • Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) • Particulate matter (PM) • Other standard categories of air emissions identified in relevant regulations. b Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. c Report the source of the emission factors used. Environmental — effluents and waste Where reported EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination SDR, Planet, page 117 a Report the total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: • Destination • Quality of the water including treatment method • Whether it was reused by another organisation. b Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method SDR, Planet, page 119 a Report the total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: • Reuse • Recycling • Composting • Recovery, including energy recovery • Incineration (mass burn) • Deep well injection • Landfill • On-site storage • Other (to be specified by the organisation). b Report how the waste disposal method has been determined: • Disposed of directly by the organisation or otherwise directly confirmed Information provided by the waste disposal contractor • Organisational defaults of the waste disposal contractor. 143 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Social — labour practices and decent work Social — employment Where reported LA 1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region SDR, People, page 89 a Report the total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. b Report the total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. Social — labour/management relations Where reported LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements SDR, People, page 91 a Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their elected representatives prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could substantially affect them. b For organisations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. Social — occupational health and safety Where reported LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management/worker health and safety committees that help monitor and SDR, People, page 92 advise on occupational health and safety programmes a Report the level at which each formal joint management/worker health and safety committee typically operates within the organisation. b Report the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management/worker health and safety committees. LA 6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by SDR, People, page 94 region and by gender a Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities, for the total workforce (that is, total employees plus supervised workers), by region and gender. b Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities for independent contractors working on-site to whom the organisation is liable for the general safety of the working environment, by region and gender. c Report the system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. 144 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References GRI General standard disclosures — Material aspects continued Social — training and education Where reported LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category SDR, People, page 83 a Report the average hours of training that the organisation’s employees have undertaken during the reporting period, by gender and employee category. LA 11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category SDR, People, page 81 a Report the percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received a regular performance and career development review during the reporting period. Social — diversity and equal opportunity Where reported SDR, People, pages 80, 87, 88 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity a Report the percentage of individuals within the organisation’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups • Other indicators of diversity where relevant. b Report the percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups • Other indicators of diversity where relevant. Social ­— compliance Where reported SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations GRI Index — not applicable, no such fines a Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: or sanctions • Total monetary value of significant fines • Total number of non-monetary sanctions • Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. b If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. 145 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Glossary adt biofuels coated paper dissolving pulp Air dry tons — the industry standard is 90% Organic material such as wood, waste and Paper that contains a layer of coating material Highly purified chemical pulp derived primarily fibre and 10% moisture. alcohol fuels, as well as gaseous and liquid fuels on one or both sides — the coating materials, from wood, but also from cotton linters intended produced from these feedstocks when they are consisting of pigments and binders, act as a primarily for conversion into chemical derivatives AF&PA burned to produce energy. filler to improve the printing surface of the paper. of cellulose and used mainly in the manufacture American Forest and Paper Association. of viscose staple fibre, solvent spin fibre and bleached pulp coated mechanical filament. air dry tons (adt) Pulp that has been bleached by means of Coated paper made from groundwood pulp Meaning dry solids content of 90% and moisture chemical additives to make it suitable for fine which has been produced in a mechanical dissolving wood pulp content of 10%. paper production. process, primarily used for magazines, Highly purified chemical pulp derived from wood catalogues and advertising material. intended primarily for conversion into chemical biofuels casting release paper derivatives of cellulose and used mainly in the Organic material such as wood, waste and Embossed paper used to impart design in coated woodfree manufacture of viscose staple fibre, solvent spin alcohol fuels, as well as gaseous and liquid fuels polyurethane or polyvinyl chloride plastic films Coated paper made from chemical pulp which fibre and filament. Also called chemical cellulose. produced from these feedstocks when they are for the production of synthetic leather and other is made from woodfibre that has been produced burned to produce energy. textured surfaces. The term also applies to in a chemical process, primarily used for highECF — elemental chlorine free backing paper for self-adhesive labels. end publications and advertising material. Refers to bleaching sequences in which no BBBEE chlorine is used. Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment CEPI corrugating medium as envisaged in the Black Economic Confederation of European Paper Industries. Paperboard made from chemical and semiEMAS Empowerment (BEE) legislation in South Africa. chemical pulp, or waste paper, that is to be A voluntary clean citizenship initiative of the chemical cellulose — dissolving pulp converted to a corrugated board by passing it European Union, constituting the highest black liquor Highly purified chemical pulp intended primarily through corrugating cylinders. Corrugating environmental standards in Europe and requiring The spent cooking liquor from the pulping for conversion into chemical derivatives of medium between layers of linerboard form the environmental stewardship, determined process which arises when pulpwood is cooked cellulose and used mainly in the manufacture board from which corrugated boxes are continuous improvement and detailed public in a digester thereby removing lignin, of viscose staple fibre, solvent spin fibre and produced. reporting. hemicellulose and other extractives from the filament. wood to free the cellulose fibres. The resulting contractor energy black liquor is an aqueous solution of lignin COD — chemical oxygen demand Refers to an independent employer of selfEnergy is present in many forms such as solar, residues, hemicellulose, and the inorganic Untreated effluent is generally high in organic employed person performing work for Sappi, mechanical, thermal, electrical and chemical. chemicals used in the pulping process. Black matter. COD is the amount of oxygen required excludes temporary or fixed-term employees. Any source of energy can be tapped to perform liquor contains slightly more than half of the to break down the organic compounds in the work. In power plants, coal is burned and its energy content of the wood fed into the digester. effluent. CSR/CSI chemical energy is converted into electrical Corporate Social Responsibility — previously energy. To generate steam, coal and other fossil billion chemical pulp referred to as Corporate Social Investment. fuels are burned, thus converting stored Sappi follows contemporary ‘short scale’ A generic term for pulp made from woodfibre chemical energy into thermal energy. convention; defining a billion as one thousand that has been produced in a chemical process. millions. ETC CHP Education, Training and Consulting. Combined heat and power. 146 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Glossary continued Exciter FSC® haptic (haptic communication) Kyoto Protocol In addition to our more traditional R&D work, Forest Stewardship Council® Refers to the ways in which eople communicate A document signed by over 160 countries at we started the Exciter programme in 2005 to In terms of the Forest Stewardship Council® and interact via the sense of touch. As well as Kyoto, Japan in December 1997 which commits deal with the persistent threat of commoditisation (FSC ®) scheme, there are two types of providing information about surfaces and signatories to reducing their emission of in the graphics paper markets. It is aimed at certification. In order for forest land to achieve textures, touch, or the haptic sense, is a greenhouse gases relative to levels emitted in accelerating the development of breakthrough FSC endorsement, its forest management component of communication in interpersonal 1990. technological competency in our core markets. practices must meet the FSC 10 principles relationships that is non-verbal and nonvisual. based on environmental, social and economic Touch is extremely important for humans and lignin fibre criteria. Roundwood (logs) with FSC-certification: is vital in conveying physical intimacy. An organic substance that, with cellulose, forms Fibre is generally referred to as ‘pulp’ in the Sappi Southern Africa Forests FSC C012316 the chief part of woody tissue. paper industry. Wood is treated chemically or and Sappi Southern Africa Group Scheme FSC HFO mechanically to separate the fibres during the C017054. For manufacturers of forest products, Heavy fuel oil. liquor pulping process. including paper manufacturers like Sappi, ChainWhite liquor is the aqueous solution of sodium of-Custody (CoC)-certification involves ISO — International Standards Organisation hydroxide and sodium sulphide used to extract fine paper independent verification of the supply chain, Developed by the International Organisation for lignin during kraft pulping. Black liquor is the Fine paper is usually produced from chemical which identifies and tracks the timber through Standardisation (ISO), ISO 9000 is a series of resultant combination of lignin, water and pulp for printing and writing purposes and all stages of the production process from the standards focused on quality management chemicals. consisting of coated and uncoated paper. tree farm to the end-product. Sappi’s mills in systems, while the ISO 14001 series is focused South Africa are licensed – Ngodwana Mill – FSC on environmental performance and management. linerboard Forestry SA C021636, Saiccor Mill – FSC C011012, Stanger The grade of paperboard used for the exterior The largest forestry organisation representing Mill – FSC C019831 and Tugela Mill – FSC IUCN facings of corrugated board. Linerboard is growers of timber in South Africa. C012468. The World Conservation Union. combined with corrugating medium by converters to produce corrugated board used full-time equivalent employee joint venture in boxes. The number of total hours worked divided by An economic activity over which the group the maximum number of compensable hours exercises joint control established under a LTIFR in a full-time schedule as defined by law. contractual arrangement. Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate = number of lost time injuries x 200,000 divided by man greenhouse gases (GHGs) JSE Limited hours. The GHGs included in the Kyoto Protocol are The main securities exchange in South Africa, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, previously known as the Johannesburg Stock managed forest hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and Exchange. Naturally occurring forests that are harvested sulphur hexafluoride. commercially. kraft paper group Packaging paper (bleached or unbleached) market pulp The group comprises Sappi Limited, its made from kraft pulp. Pulp produced for sale on the open market, as subsidiaries and its interest in joint ventures and opposed to that produced for own consumption associates. kraft pulp in an integrated mill. Chemical wood pulp produced by digesting wood by means of the sulphate pulping process. 147 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Glossary continued mechanical pulp packaging paper sackkraft speciality paper Pulp produced by means of the mechanical Paper used for packaging purposes. Kraft paper used to produce multi-wall paper A generic term for a group of papers intended grinding or refining of wood or wood chips. sacks. for commercial and industrial use such as flexible PAMSA packaging, metallised base paper, coated bag NBSK Paper Manufacturers Association of South Sappi Specialised Cellulose paper, etc. Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft pulp. One Africa. The business within Sappi which oversees the of the main varieties of market-pulp, produced production and marketing of dissolving wood specific from coniferous trees (ie spruce, pine) in PEFC™ pulp. When data is expressed in specific form, this Scandinavia, Canada and northern USA. The The world’s largest forest certification system, means that the actual quality consumed during price of NBSK is a benchmark widely used in the PEFC™ is focused on promoting sustainable Scope 1 GHG emissions the year indicated, whether energy, water, the pulp and paper industry for comparative forest management. Using multi-stakeholder The Green House Gas Protocol defines Scope emissions or solid waste, is expressed in terms purposes. processes, the organisation develops forest 1 (direct) emissions as follows: direct GHG of a production parameter. For Sappi, as with management certification standards and emissions are emissions from sources that are other pulp and paper companies, this parameter NGO schemes which have been signed by 37 nations owned or controlled by the reporting entity. is air dry tons of saleable product. A non-governmental organisation is any nonin Europe and other inter-governmental profit, voluntary citizens’ group which is processes for sustainable forestry management Scope 2 GHG emissions specific purchased energy organised on a local, national or international around the world. The Green House Gas Protocol defines Scope The term ‘specific’ indicates that the actual level. 2 (indirect) emissions as follows: indirect GHG quantity during the year indicated, is expressed plantation emissions are emissions that are a consequence in terms of a production parameter. For Sappi, NPO Tree farm. of the activities of the reporting entity, but occur as with other pulp and paper companies, the Non-profit organisation. A corporation or an at sources owned or controlled by another entity. parameter is air dry tons of product. association that conducts business for the PM benefit of the general public without shareholders Paper machine. SE SSA and without a profit motive. Sappi Europe. Sappi Southern Africa. power natural/indigenous forest The rate at which energy is used or produced. silviculture costs Sustainable Forestry Initiative — SFI® Pristine areas not used commercially. Growing and tending costs of trees in forestry The SFI® programme is a comprehensive system pulpwood operations. of objectives and performance measures which newsprint Wood suitable for producing pulp – usually not integrate the sustained growing and harvesting Paper produced for the printing of newspapers of sufficient standard for sawmilling. SMMEs of trees and the protection of plants and animals. mainly from mechanical pulp and/or recycled Small-, mediumand micro enterprises. waste paper. red data list A global index of endangered species published SNA OHSAS by the World Conservation Union. Sappi North America. An international health and safety standard aimed at minimising occupational health and solid waste safety risks firstly, by conducting a variety of Dry organic and inorganic waste materials. analyses and secondly, by setting standards. 148 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Glossary continued TAPPI uncoated woodfree paper VSF — viscose staple fibre woodfree paper Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Printing and writing paper made from bleached A natural fibre made from purified cellulose, paper made from chemical pulp. Industry for the worldwide pulp, paper, chemical pulp used for general printing, primarily from dissolving wood pulp that can be packaging, and converting industries. photocopying and stationery, etc. Referred to twisted to form yarn. World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) as ‘uncoated’ as it does not contain a layer of The world’s largest conservation organisation, TCF — total chlorine-free pigment to give it a coated surface. focused on supporting biological diversity. Refers to bleaching sequences in which no chlorine containing compounds such as chlorine dioxide are used. thermo-mechanical pulp Pulp produced by processing woodfibres using heat and mechanical grinding or refining wood or wood chips. ton Term used in this report to denote a metric ton of 1,000kg. TSS — total suspended solids Refers to matter suspended or dissolved in effluent. 149 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015 About this report Governance Targets Accolades Stakeholder engagement Key material issues Prosperity People Planet UNGC GRI Glossary References Referenced third-party websites AF&PA GreenBlue PAMSA SFI® American Forest and Paper Association www.greenblue.org Paper Manufacturers Association of South Africa Sustainable Forestry Initiative www.afandpa.org www.thepaperstory.co.za www.sfiprogram.org HBR AfJARE Harvard Business Review PAPTAC TAPPI African Journal of Agricultural and Resource www.hbr.org The Pulp and Paper Technical Association of Technical Association of Pulp and Paper Economics Canada Industries www.afjare.org How life unfolds www.paptac.ca www.tappi.org www.howlifeunfolds.com Agrimoney PEFC™ Tetra Pak www.agrimoney.com Human Rights Watch Programme for the Endorsement of Forest www.tetrapak.com www.hrw.org Certification™ BICEP www.pefc.org Times Live Media Biological Control of Eucalyptus Pests IOL www.timeslive.co.za www.bicep.net.au/ Independent (newspapers) On Line PMR Africa www.iol.co.za www.pmrafrica.com Transparency Market Research CEPI www.transparencymarketresearch.com Confederation of European Paper Industries ISEGA Print Power www.cepi.org www.isega.de www.printpower.eu/en Two Sides www.twosides.info EMAS ISO Protec www.ec.europa.eu International Organisation for Standardisation www.protec.org.za Typek www.iso.org www.typek.co.za FABI Pulp and Paper Products Council (PPPC) Forestry and Bio-technical Institute JSE www.pppc.org United States Environmental Protection Agency www.fabinet.up.ac.za Johannesburg Stock Exchange www.epa.gov www.jse.co.za RISI Forbes www.risiinfo.com University of Maine Pulp and Paper www.forbes.com KPMG Foundation www.kpmg.com Sage journals www.mainepulpaper.org FSC ® online.sagepub.com Forest Stewardship Council® MARKETSANDMARKETS Verisk Maplecroft™ www.ic.fsc.org Market Research Company and Consulting Firm SANBI www.maplecroft.com www.marketsandmarkets.com South African National Biodiversity Institute Gallup www.sanbi.org WeForest www.gallup.com/home.aspx NBI www.weforest.org National Business Initiative Sappi Birdguide Global Footprint Network www.nbi.org.za www.brizabirdguide.co.za WWF South Africa www.footprintnetwork.org World Wide Fund for Nature Packaging World www.packworld.com www.wwf.org.za 150 Sappi Group Sustainability Report 2015
