Connecting Pieces of Your World 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ansaldo STS in brief 1 Sustainability at Ansaldo STS 2 Letter from the CEO and General Manager 6 Contents 8 COMPANY PROFILE 10 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE 42 INNOVATION 70 THE ENVIROMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY 80 OUR PEOPLE 104 SUPPLY CHAIN 138 COMMUNITY 148 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY 166 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Ansaldo STS in brief Ansaldo STS1 is active all over the world as a contractor and supplier of turnkey services and solutions for large global projects for passenger and freight railways and metro lines. In addition to being known for the provision of turnkey projects for large metro lines, Ansaldo STS has broad experience in the high speed sector as a supplier and integrator of all sub-systems: interoperable signalling and system, telecom, power supply, rolling stock integration, electrification and wayside equipment. It designs, builds, installs and operates signalling systems and components to manage and control railway and metro lines. It is an international Organization based in Europe, the Middle East, North Africa, the Americas and the Asia Pacific region. Four key strategic pillars • Business driven – business-focused Organization; •S  trategic centre – management founded on strong, centralised guidance; • Efficiency – industrialisation of the executive methods and globalisation of R&D (research and development) activities to develop a standard product portfolio; •G  lobal – global management of the procurement process. 1. In this report, “Ansaldo STS” and “group” mean all companies included in the 2015 consolidation scope, while “Ansaldo STS S.p.A.” means the parent. 1 Sustainability at Ansaldo STS  USTAINABILITY S GOVERNANCE INTERNAL SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Composed of the managers of the main company functions, this committee defines strategic guidelines, commitments and projects for sustainable development and social responsibility. It reports directly to the CEO and General Manager and through him to the Board of Directors. By developing the CSR Manager’s skills to support the activities of the committee, Ansaldo STS will make the measures aimed at achieving sustainability targets even more effective, intensifying their ongoing monitoring and reporting. MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Ansaldo STS defines the content of the Sustainability Report by asking group management and its stakeholders for their opinions on the different aspects to be considered in the report. This enables the company to more thoroughly report on sustainability issues that affect its stakeholders’ judgements and decisions. STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT Ansaldo STS is committed to understanding the needs and expectations of its people and involving them in projects to develop skills and expertise. It is focused on constantly monitoring its customers’ satisfaction and plays an active part in handling relations with local communities be they municipal authorities, citizen associations, users of metros and trains, companies or local labourers. It also participates in research and training projects with institutions and universities. SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME Reporting on its commitments, investigations of the quality of its interaction with its stakeholders and the results of the materiality analysis allow Ansaldo STS to compile an annual sustainability programme that is focused on constant improvement. SOCIAL INNOVATION Ansaldo STS operates daily with the aim of improving quality of life by designing new transport systems which, every day, carry millions of people and materials without polluting, by developing increasingly compact and energy-efficiency hardware, by researching new green technologies and, above all, by optimising consumption and avoiding waste. 2 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FOR CUTTING EDGE PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS In 2015, Ansaldo STS invested approximately €39 million in research and development to supply its customers and end users with cutting-edge products and solutions and the very best railway and urban rail transport system design and construction methods and procedures in order to increase safety and reduce their direct and indirect environmental impact. SAFETY AND RELIABILITY Ansaldo STS ensures that it develops and delivers products, applications and systems that are: safe, in compliance with Italian and international laws applicable to railway systems and reliable, pursuant to its customers’ needs and its internal quality standards. It achieves this through RAMS (Reliability, Availability, Maintainability & Safety) activities. PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS THAT RESPECT THE ENVIRONMENT For Ansaldo STS, innovation is synonymous with respect for the environment: it is committed to researching products and solutions that contribute to reducing energy and raw materials consumption. It pays increasing attention to using environmentally-friendly materials, starting at the design stage. T  HE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY FIGHT AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE Ansaldo STS reports on direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) in accordance with the GHG protocol2, undertaking to decrease these emissions, in part through people mobility policies, plans to cut energy consumption and improve efficiency, use of energy from renewable sources and to manage waste effectively. INTEGRATED QUALITY, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT SYSTEM Ansaldo STS has an Integrated Management System (IMS) for the quality, safety and environment, which integrates all group processes in one single structure, enabling the Organization to operate with shared objectives. It has also certified its individual sites in accordance with UNI EN ISO 14001 and OSHAS 18001 standards. WORKERS’ HEALTH AND SAFETY Promoting the health and safety of its workers is a strategic commitment for Ansaldo STS. The company also tracks “near misses” – which are accidents without consequences resulting from undesired or unexpected situations, which could potentially harm people or things – to identify the appropriate solutions before a real accident happens. 2. T he Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GGP) is the most widely used international accounting tool for government and business leaders to understand, quantify and manage greenhouse gas emissions. 3 Sustainability at Ansaldo STS OUR PEOPLE PEOPLE CARE “People care” is one of our five central values in our Organization. “People Care” is a far-ranging concept for Ansaldo STS which covers worker wellbeing as both professionals and as people. It focuses on work environments and monitors relations between managers and their teams and between colleagues. Ansaldo STS offers a wide range of benefits and services. TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL GROWTH Ansaldo STS considers professional, managerial and specialist training a fundamental lever to enhance its people’s skills. The Global Job System is applied to the entire workforce and interacts with the Performance Development Plan to plan career objectives and individual development paths that match new business contexts. SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY Ansaldo STS is committed to defining, sharing and implementing a sustainability roadmap for its supply chain to promote a sustainable business culture with its suppliers. The aim is to progressively improve the economic, environmental and social impact (labour and safety practices, respect for human rights and the development of local communities) along the entire supply chain. COMMUNITY RESEARCH PROGRAMMES WITH INSTITUTIONS AND PARTNERSHIPS WITH UNIVERSITIES Ansaldo STS contributes to our society’s technological advancement by participating in research projects with Italian and EU institutions and training projects with universities on issues such as safety, energy efficiency, satellite signalling and the monitoring of railway transport system infrastructure. 4 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report CORPORATE AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATION This is the seventh Ansaldo STS Sustainability Report edition in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and with certification by an independent auditor. Ansaldo STS adheres to the Global Compact and is a founding sponsor of the Global Compact Network Italy Foundation. It also participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project and is on UNIFE’s Sustainable Transport Committee. ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY BUSINESS STRATEGY AND MODEL Ansaldo STS’s economic sustainability is its strategic answer to the macroeconomic context and transportation market trends, based on a business model that develops distinctive abilities and the necessary skills to boost the company’s competitiveness in markets. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Ansaldo STS’s corporate governance system is designed to maximise value, monitor business risks and achieve transparency with the market, balancing the interests of all its shareholders, with specific attention to minor ones. Mugnano Station line MetroCampania Nord Est 5 Letter from the CEO and General Manager Letter from the CEO and General Manager Dear Stakeholders, This year, Ansaldo STS publishes the seventh edition of the Sustainability Report, a process that began in 2009 with the aim of narrating the company’s commitment on the sector of signalling and integrated railways transport systems and the implementation of increasingly advanced, safe, reliable and sustainable products to respond to the growing mobility demand. Andy Barr CEO and General Manager 6 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report In recent years the world has A single vision, even if derived from research projects with national changed dramatically, and it different stories, contributes to the and EU institutions and promoting is not enough to have a good solution of the problems that society technological and managerial product, if society and customers’ is facing and for which technological training in partnership with the requirements are not understood innovation plays an important role. Universities. and the capacity to create solutions, and above all, value for both is Over the past year Ansaldo STS In addition to increasing the missing. further improved its path towards economic value as a company, sustainable development both Ansaldo STS works with customers The question we must ask in terms of results achieved and to create new solutions and real ourselves every time we think reporting capacity. The ‘analysis of value to society. We help to create about the physical realization of materiality’ was updated to include a safer society, moving millions our components or we design of a new stakeholders and a thorough of people around the world in a great line is: how can we, through analysis of economic, social and comfortable and safe way. our projects create value for the environmental risks to accurately entire community, not only for those describe how the company is able I’m very proud and would like to who specifically use our transport to handle them and convert them thank all of our stakeholders and all systems, but all the people who into opportunities for growth. the people I’ve met in the company come into contact with them? for their warm welcome. Since the How do we innovate to improve the Ansaldo STS further reduced beginning I have appreciated the quality of everyone’s life? greenhouse gas emissions in passion and intelligence which 2015 thanks to its policy on all people in Ansaldo STS have Our own answer is in the pages of energy savings and sustainable dedicated working with such high this report: in our daily commitment mobility, ranking among High Scores professionalism. to find new solutions and in the companies of the Carbon Disclosure determination with which we face Project. The frequency and We proceed with our own approach, new challenges, our gaze locked severity of accidents at work has but even stronger because we are towards the opportunities the future further reduced and the Company part of Hitachi group , who share is offering to us. won the Best Practice Award at our ethics, business philosophy and the third conference organized passion. Today, Ansaldo STS is part of the by AICQ (Italian Association of Hitachi Group whose mission has Quality Control) thanks to the Let’s continue working this way by always been to contribute to social implementation of the Safety and providing our technical added value, well-being through technological Security Instruction for Traveler. cultural and human partnership, development. By combining our experience and ethics to advanced IT systems, internet and Ansaldo STS has also continued keep improving the quality of our cloud technologies the Group aims intense research and development products, our capabilities and to provide new solutions to improve and is increasing investment solutions which distinguish us the quality of life on a global scale. both through participation in in the world. 7 Contents Company profile 10 Our mission 12 Organizational structure 14 Business lines 17 Ansaldo STS around the world 22 Company history: milestones 24 2015 results 26 Main ongoing projects 30 Corporate governance 32 Internal control and risk management system 40 Sustainability governance 42 Sustainability governance 44 Materiality analysis 46 Sustainability risks and opportunities 48 Stakeholder engagement 54 Sustainability programme 61 Ethics and integrity 64 Local corporate social responsibility 68 Innovation 70 Innovation governance 72 Main products conceived and undergoing development 72 Product and solution safety and reliability 75 Energy efficiency and respect for the environment 76 Investment in innovation and intellectual property 79 The Enviroment, Health and Safety 80 Environmental sustainability 82 Environmental policy 83 Environmental training 84 Climate change 86 Environmental performance 90 Health and safety 100 8 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Our people 104 Human resource management policy 106 Recruitment and hiring 111 Training and development 113 Remuneration and incentive systems 122 People Care 126 Trade unions 134 In-house communications 137 Supply Chain 138 Types of purchases and suppliers 140 Supply chain sustainability policy 142 Vetting and eligibility of suppliers 143 Contractual tools 145 Community 148 Media affairs 150 Ansaldo STS and the community 155 Research projects with Italian and EU public institutions 158 Partnerships with universities: technological and managerial training 163 Trade associations 165 Economic sustainability 166 Market characteristics 168 Business model 169 Strategy 170 Value directly generated and distributed 172 Customer satisfaction 173 Ansaldo STS and its banks and insurance companies 177 Shareholders 178 METHODOLOGICAL NOTE 182 GRI CONTENT INDEX 184 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS 193 9 COMPANY PROFILE Our mission 12 Organizational structure 14 Business lines 17 Ansaldo STS around the world 22 Company history: milestones 24 2015 results 26 Main ongoing projects 30 Corporate governance 32 Internal control and risk management system 40 Ansaldo STS considers the social, economic, logistics, architectural, environmental and structural context of each project it handles, planning, designing and building signalling and railway and mass transit systems that provide the best possible combination of safety, efficiency and return on investment. Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report In summary Revenues Net profit +6 % + 15 % (from € 1,303 million (from € 81 million to € 1,384 million) to € 93 million) CO2 34.3 % – 8.3 % electrical energy from renewable GHG sources production (from 2014 to 2015) + 11.8 % + 4.8 % R&D investments economic (€ 36.9 million value expensed directly) distributed to stakeholders (€1,354 million) 0.14 frequency of 0.27 frequency of injuries at injuries at office sites production sites 11 Company profile | Our mission Our mission Ansaldo STS combines for both passengers and and social issues, and how experience and human, freight. we foster a collaborative financial and technological environment and respect resources to provide Our commitment to for local cultures through innovative solutions sustainable development our work. The more we in the design and can be seen in the make sustainable long-term construction of equipment countries in which we decisions, the better the and systems for operate, across five interaction between our conventional and highcontinents, through the company, society and the speed railway lines and widespread application environment will be, and mass transit rail network of our business vision, this approach is part of our signalling and automation focus on environmental competitive edge. 12 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Our values To achieve its objectives and growth and maintain its sector leadership, Ansaldo STS bases its operations on solid, unwavering ethical values and principles. Everyone in the Organization is required to uphold this culture and make the same commitment to ethical conduct, embracing the company’s principles and values. Ansaldo STS’s values, and those on which it has based its business are: FOCUS ON CUSTOMERS PEOPLE company culture, while achieving Our technologies safely move Customer satisfaction and the established objectives and the millions of people every day. This development of new products depend company’s mission. Ansaldo STS drives Ansaldo STS to do its best on the abilities of the professionals strongly encourages attainment of its to increase and maintain high working to achieve them, Ansaldo people’s aspirations through team excellence services for rail transport STS’s employees. This is why Ansaldo objectives. users. Ansaldo STS exists because STS is a company founded on of its customers, insofar as the people. Everyone in the company’s INTEGRITY company is able to understand Organization works to make Ansaldo If people are to work together and meet their requirements and STS a good place to work, where effectively, mutual trust must be expectations, helping them resolve people learn, achieve and celebrate fostered, and this is only possible any related problems. success. Ansaldo STS always if everyone works and acts in a way prioritises its people and their safety. that is transparent, loyal, honest and INNOVATION AND EXCELLENCE proper. Similarly, customers must Understanding, studying and TEAM SPIRIT have the absolute certainty that developing solutions to improve None of these operating objectives integrity is a fundamental value for responses to customers and market can be achieved by one person alone. Ansaldo STS, and that this value is offers lie at the crux of Ansaldo The company’s professionals work reflected in its products, through the STS’s activities, in which work is in a single, integrated Organization, utmost care and attention to safety. constantly focused on providing capable of making the most of their customers with innovative and different cultures and professional excellent products that represent training. This team spirit can also the company’s competitiveness on be found in managers who ensure the market. cooperation and the growth of the 13 Company profile | Organizational structure Organizational structure Ansaldo STS boasts an integrated, global Organization capable of providing an adequate response to demand for standardised solutions in the railway transport market and, in particular, the signalling technology market. It has four key pillars: Business Business focused organisation Driven Strategic Strategic management model founded on a strong, centralised guide centre Industrialisation of the executive methods and globalisation of R&D Efficiency activities to develop a standard product portfolio Global Global management of the procurement process And it is based on the coexistence of: •O rganization: Organizational units with •T  eam-based organization: functional teams specific professional areas of expertise; that aim to achieve an objective in order to ensure the effective and efficient functioning of the main business processes: offer, execution, development and innovation. Art Station Lala line 6 metro Naples, artwork of Nanni Balestrini 14 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Organization Over the past few years, the market has become increasingly dynamic and competitive, seeing a progressive consolidation of market leaders of ever larger sizes through mergers and acquisitions involving companies in the sector. This trend, along with the need to respond to competitive pressure on prices and the standardisation of products and technical solutions, has led Ansaldo STS to revise its Organization to further improve efficiency and effectiveness. The following are the main elements • identification and clear •H uman Resources (HR underpinning the company’s segregation of the businesses & Organization Unit), Organizational structure: that currently characterise Administration, Finance and •c  lear Organizational Ansaldo STS’s offer: Railway/ Control (CFO Unit) and Staff identification of a strategic Mass Transit and Freight Functions increasingly focused unit directly reporting to the transport; on generating value by acting as CEO with responsibility for • clear Organizational identification business partners to facilitate defining strategic guidelines of a unit directly reporting to the and support the achievement of relating to business CEO with direct responsibility the company’s short, medium development and management for safety/RAMS (“Reliability, and long-term objectives. of the product/technical Availability, Maintainability & solutions portfolio on Ansaldo Safety”); STS’s markets; •c  lear Organizational • identification and Organizational identification of a unit directly segregation of business/project reporting to the CEO with direct management from the technical responsibility for Institutional performance of projects by Affairs, External Relations & establishing business units and Communication; an Operations Unit; Accordingly, the main structure consists of the following Organizational units directly reporting to the CEO: The Institutional Affairs, External Relations and Communication Unit was CEO set up in November 2015. Specifically, the Unit is responsible for managing HR & relationship and representation Organization activities with public bodies, public and private administrations, diplomatic CFO representations and national and Strategy, Quality international trade associations. & Improvement Institutional Affairs, External Relations & Communication RAMS Staff Functions Innovation Railways & Operations Freight BU Mass Transit BU Unit 15 Company profile | Organizational structure The Railways & Mass Transit and which, in line with the group’s The teams are composed of Freight Business Units strategic guidelines, ensure people assigned from the • responsible for managing the continuous improvement in the relevant operating units who performance of both projects efficiency and effectiveness have the necessary skills for and sales activities at global of the implementation and the projects. The teams work level, in line with the centrallydevelopment of technical as levers in the management of defined strategic guidelines; products/solutions; interdependencies, interfaces and conflict, and ensure coordination •o  rganised by market areas • providing the business units between units. The aim is to referred to as regions. Each with all parts, systems ensure an indepth focus on region covers a geographical and services to optimise customers, efficiency and area in which Ansaldo procurement and production standardisation of processes STS currently has projects times and costs; and flexibility. Each team is led underway; • managing technical resources; by a Team Manager with ultimate • t hey have a central responsibility for the team’s • ensuring the implementation of Organizational unit responsible output and coordinates the shared processes, procedures for performing/coordinating team’s resources. and tools; the bidding activities in the individual regions; • ensuring the capitalisation and Depending on the scope of the exchange of knowledge. work and the requirements, the • t hey perform sales activities hierarchical function or centre for business expansion/ managers select team members. development on markets not Each team member is assigned a yet covered (new geographies) Team-based organization specific job and responsibility for by implementing the strategic Collaboration, management of identifying the required resources. guidelines defined by the work groups and a processOnce they have been assigned to central Strategy, Quality & based approach are key factors a team, members answer to the Improvement Unit. in the successful implementation team manager with respect to of the business strategy, as no deadlines, costs and the quality The Operations Unit single Organizational unit has all of the output. is responsible for: the required levers to achieve business targets. •d  eveloping and managing the product/platform/application To ensure a structured and portfolio by implementing the formalised approach to its strategic guidelines defined by project activities, Ansaldo the central Strategy, Quality & STS has defined an internal Improvement Unit; Organizational structure for • identifying and implementing project teams that operate in key efficiency-improvement processes: the Bidding Team and activities and programmes, the Project Team. 16 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Business Lines HIGH SPEED SUB-URBAN CONVENTIONAL CONVENTIONAL LINES METRO CATENARY FREE FREIGHT (TRAMWAVE®) DRIVERLESS TRAMWAY UTO METRO Integrated system solutions All over the world, Ansaldo STS assists its customers to Ansaldo STS’s success factors design and develop reliable and sustainable solutions for rail • CUTTING EDGE TECHNOLOGY transport networks, making mass transit more efficient and safe • INNOVATIVE APPROACH TO COMPLEX PROJECTS and contributing to resolving the • INTERNATIONAL REACH AND GLOBAL CAPACITY problems caused by the growth and concentration of the urban • EFFICIENT SOLUTIONS FOR INTEROPERABLE SYSTEMS population. • CAPACITY TO BUILD INTEGRATED SYSTEMS From passenger to freight transport networks, from urban to high speed or conventional interurban and cross border transport, Ansaldo • Satellite positioning • Catenary-free technology STS designs and uses cutting edge technology for the effective (TramWave®) to protect the technology to meet operators’ and safe management of railway environment and historical city requirements and optimise service traffic; centres; regardless of traffic density and •D  riverless and unmanned • Large component portfolio, which complexity. solutions for better operating includes all signalling aspects and Ansaldo STS has made its mark on efficiency and flexibility and to system solutions (such as point the railway sector by using statecut operating and maintenance machines, signals, level crossings, of-the-art technologies for large costs; relays, etc). projects, such as: • CBTC signalling technologies • ERTMS / ETCS technologies, to improve service using the adopted to make high speed lines distancing logic based on moving safer and more interoperable; blocks, mainly used for metros; 17 Company profile | Business Lines Public transport solutions For Ansaldo STS, public transport means above all urban transport. Characterised by high traffic densities and a considerable volume of passengers in rush hours over relatively short distances, urban transport requires high safety, availability, flexibility and reliability levels to ensure operational efficiency and comfortable travelling for passengers. Metros Binary circuit systems CBTC systems Milan metro, Lines 1 and 2 (Italy) Paris (France), Line 3 (12 km) Rome metro, Lines A and B (Italy) Shenyang (China), Line 1 (29 km) and Line 2 (25 km) Naples metro, Line 6 (Italy) Chengdu (China), Line 1 (15 km) and Line 2 (41 km) Paris RER A (France) Xi’an (China), Line 2 (26.6 km) Naples metro, Line 1 (Italy) Hangzhou (China), Line 1 (53.6 km) and Line 2 (18.6 km) Seoul, Lines 5, 7 and 8 (South Korea) Zhengzhou (China), Line 1 (26.2 km) Dallas, DART light rail (US) Ankara (Turkey), Lines M1 (32 km), M2 (18 km), M3 (8 km) and M4 (5 km)* Portland, West Side Corridor light rail (US) Dalian (China), Lines 1 and 2 Shanghai, Line 2 (China) 2002 & Extension Navi Mumbai metro (India), (21 km) Lisbon, Line B (Portugal) Stockholm (Sweden), Red Line (41 km) Los Angeles, Green Line (US) South-eastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) CBTC Media Sharon Hill Lines (29 km) Tanjin-Binhai, (China) Tianjin (China), Line 5 (35 km) Charlotte, South Corridor light rail (US) Pittsburgh, South West Corridor light rail (US) Belo Horizonte metro (Brazil) Shanghai, Line 2, West side extension (China) Chicago, Blue Line (US) Genoa, Line 1 (Italy) Sao Paulo, Lines 7 and 9 (Brazil) Shanghai, Line 2, East side extension (China) Pittsburgh, North Shore Corridor (US) Washington DC, Red Line & Blue Lines (US) Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA), West Side Subway Extension (US) Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MTBA), PTC System (US) *Ankara Metro received the Safety Assessment Approval for CBTC operation. Updated Ankara Metro progress is highlighted with the completion of the CBTC system installation, testing and commissioning activities for the M1, M2, M3 lines in August 2015. On 17th March 2016 Safety Assessment Report and Certificate for M1, M2 and M3 lines was issued for regular Revenue Service in CBTC mode. The CBTC system for the M1, M2 and M3 lines have been available to the Client use, ready for Revenue Service, since 17th March. Driverless metros Binary circuit systems CBTC systems Copenhagen Lines M1/M2 (Denmark) Taipei, Circular Line (Taiwan) Riyadh Princess Noura University Campus (PNU) (Saudi Arabia) Copenhagen, City Ring (Denmark) Brescia metro (Italy) Milan metro, Line 4 (Italy) Milan metro, Line 5 (Italy) Riyadh metro (Saudi Arabia) Rome metro, Line C (Italy) Lima metro, Lines 2 and 4 (Perù) UI-Shinseol (Korea) Glasgow metro (Scotland) Honolulu metro (US) Thessaloniki metro (Greece) 18 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Turnkey driverless metros around the world Driverless metros ensure high performance in terms of technology and transport capacity. The main driverless metros built by Ansaldo STS around the world (Ansaldo STS has managed Lines M1 and M2 in Copenhagen since 2002, Milan line 5, Milan line 4, Brescia, Rome line C, Thessaloniki, Taipei, Riyadh, Copenhagen Cityring lines M3 and M4, Honolulu, Lima, etc.) are listed below. Ansaldo STS currently manages driverless metro projects around the world that cover more than 250 km. Track Stations Headway Capacity Trains O&M Copenhagen M1/M2 21 km double track double tunnel 22 min 90 s 12,000 34 13 + 3 years (4p/m2) 3 carsper train In operation (39m) since 2002 Brescia 13.7 km double track single tunnel 17 min 90 s 17,000 21 2 years of (6p/m2) 3 cars per train operation 7 years (39m) of mainten. Thessaloniki 9.5 km double track double tunnel 13 min 90 s 21,000 18 3 years of (6p/m2) 4 cars per train service (50m) assistance Rome line C 25 km (+17) 30 min 120 s 36,000 30 (+13) Local existing double track (+12) (6p/m2) 6 cars per train Operator training double tunnel (108m) Milan line 5 12.6 km double track single tunnel 19 min 75 s 28,000 21 27 years as (6p/m2) 4 cars per train member of the (50m) Concess. Taipei (CBTC) 15.4 km 14 min 90 s 26,000 17 Future system double track (6p/m2) 4 cars per train extension: viaduct (70m) 52 km, 56 stations, 64 trains Riyadh Princess Noura Univ. 11.3 km double track viaduct 14 min 90 s 4,400 22 3 years Campus (2.5p/m2) 2 cars per train (29m) Copenhagen City-ring (CBTC) 17 km double track double tunnel 17 min 100 s 12,000 28 5 + 3 years (4 p/m2) 3 cars per train (39m) Honolulu 32 km double track viaduct 21 min 90 s 7,200 20 12 years (3.2 p/m2) 4 cars per train (38.5m) Milan Line 4 (CBTC) 15.2 km 21 min 75 s 28,000 47 25 years as double track double tunnel (6p/m2) 4 cars per train member of the (50m) Concess. Riyadh Line 3 (CBTC) 40.7 km double track double tunnel 22 min 90 s 18,000 47 10 years option In (6p/m2) 2 cars per train operation (32m) in 2019 Lima Lines 2-4 (CBTC) 35 km double track single tunnel 35 min 80 s Line 2 42 30 years as 32,500 6 cars per train member of the Line 4 (108m) Concess. 15,500 (6p/m2) Glasgow Subway (CBTC) 10.5 km twin subway lines 15 min 90 s 17 10 years (39 m) Tram systems (including catenary-free solutions) Midland Birmingham light metro, Line 1 (UK) Metrolink, Manchester (UK) Sassari light metro (Italy) Dublin, Lines A, B and C (Ireland) Florence, Lines 1, 2 and 3 (Italy) Metro Campania Nord Est (Italy) Zuhai, (catenary-free) (China) 19 Company profile | Business Lines Railway solutions A trendsetter in cutting edge technologies High-speed and main line technologies: •A  nsaldo STS has been a global trendsetter in railway • T VM: tailor-made signalling system developed by technologies for decades: Ansaldo STS in the early 1980’s to meet the specific • In France, since 1981, with the Paris-Lyon line (the needs of the first high-speed lines in France, China first high-speed line in Europe) and South Korea. • In Spain, with the construction of the first high-speed • ERTMS/ETCS Lev. 1 & Lev. 2: signalling standard line (Madrid-Lerida), using ERTMS technology solutions coupled with technologies for high speed, • In the United Kingdom, with the first high-speed line conventional and heavy transport lines and railway connecting Paris to London and the first ERTMS-line networks with increased safety and interoperability. (Cambrian line) • Ansaldo STS is part of the eight UNIFE companies • In Sweden, with the Haparandabanan line (the first that developed the ERTMS project together with the ERTMS line) European Union, economic parties in the railway • In Morocco, with the Tangier-Kenitra line (the first sector and the GSM-R technology industry. high-speed line and first-time application of ERTMS technology in Africa) • In Italy, with the first-time application of ERTMS Lev. 2 technology to the country’s high-speed system. ERTMS/ETCS Lev. 1/Lev. 2 main contracts United Kingdom Belgium Netherlands Scandinavia Sweden Germany Cambrian Line Lev. 2 Onboard Lev. 1/2 STM Nordic Haparandabanan Lev. 2 Saarbrücken Mannheim Lev. 2 France Berlin Rostock Lev. 2 East European HSL Lev. 2 Velaro-D Onboard Lev. 1/2 Le Mans Rennes HSL Lev. 2 Czech Republic Tours Bordeaux HSL Lev. 2 Poříčany Kolín Lev. 2 Tournan Marles en Brie Lev. 1/2 Onboard Lev. 1/2 Austria Hungary Vienna Budapest Lev. 1 Spain France Figueres Perpignan Lev. 1/2 Romania Campina-Predeal Lev. 1 Spain Madrid Lerida HSL Lev. 1/2 China La Robla-Pola de Lena HSL Lev. 2 Zhengzhou Xi’an Lev. 2 Atocha Bypass Lev. 1/2 Shijiazhuang Taiyuan Lev. 1 Onboard Lev. 1/2 Onboard Lev. 1/2 Italy South Korea Rome Naples HSL Lev. 2 On-Board KTXII, EL8200, Turin Milan HSL Lev. 2 EMU, EL8300 Lev.1 DLOCO 25 Lev 1 Brescia Treviglio HSL Lev. 2 EMU 138 Lev 1 Treviglio Pioltello Pilot Lev. 2 (BL3) Milan Bologna HSL Lev. 2 India Onboard Lev. 1/2 Chennai Gummidipoondi Lev. 1 Delhi Agra Lev. 1 Morocco Onboard Lev. 1 Tangeri – Kenitra HSL Lev. 1/2 Algeria United Arab Emirates Oued Tlelat Tlemcen Lev. 1/2 Libya Greece Turkey Shan-Habshan-Ruwais Lev. 1/2 Onboard Lev. 1/2 Tripoli Al Khums Sirth Onboard Lev. 1 Mersin Toprakkale & Abu Grain Sebha Boğazköprü Yenice Lev. 1 Gebze Köseköy Lev. 1 Onboard TCDD EL 80 Lev 1 Greenfield Projects Brownfield Projects OBU-only Projects 20 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Freight and heavy transport solutions Freight and heavy transport lines telecommunication projects (interlocking, train movement Ansaldo STS is a global partner in the freight, heavy and control and supervision system, TLC) in association mining railway transport sector. Sophisticated modular and with the ARTC – Ansaldo STS Network Control Systems scalable control and planning systems contributed to a Alliance (AANCSA) significant increase in the safety, reliability and efficiency • Australia Rail Track Corporation (ARTC) / Lockheed levels of railway lines. Martin – 120 km, pilot project, design and supply of advanced train management systems (ATMS) The benefits of the solutions offered by Ansaldo STS’s (train movement advanced management systems), freight and heavy transport systems (interlocking, train movement control system, ATP, Ansaldo STS’s innovative signalling and telecommunication satellite positioning) – wayside-vehicle system includes satellite positioning, claiming another first • Robe River Iron, projects for Western Creek Cape in terms of upgrading and operational flexibility of railway Lambert & Mesa A line– Signalling (interlocking, train lines used for heavy transport and mining. Furthermore, movement control system, automatic train protection this system: (ATP), freight protection system along the line) and • is based on Ansaldo STS’s solid experience, knowledge telecommunication systems wayside-vehicle and technology; • Brookfield (formerly WestNet Rail) Midwest Rail– • is modular and scalable; Signalling systems (interlocking and computer-assisted • allows the implementation of cost-effective solutions train control system) for several projects which can be strengthened and expanded over time; • Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Group (NCIG) Port• allows smooth migration to a fully automated system Kooragang line– Signalling systems (interlocking and (including management of driverless trains). train movement control system) • Public Transport Authority (PTA) (formerly Westrail) Railway projects for the Australian mining industry Koolyanobbing-Kalgoorlie– 190 km, Signalling systems Ansaldo STS has designed and implemented transport and (interlocking) signalling solutions for Western Australia’s heavy mining railway transport and is currently delivering a number of Ansaldo STS’s main freight transport contracts North turnkey systems in the Pilbara region, in the north-west of America the country. This is the first driverless railway to be used •P  TC (Positive Train Control) system for heavy transport: thanks to Ansaldo STS’s driverless PTC VitalNet®™ systems and components already technology, a 1,500 km railway line for heavy transport is developed for: being automated. • Union Pacific • CSX Transportation Ansaldo STS’s main freight transport contracts • Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railways Australia TSR server for PTC Office: • Rio Tinto Iron Ore, Framework Agreement – 2,000 km, • SEPTA Signalling and telecommunication systems: Signalling • Office systems system based on radio communication with driverless Over 80,000 km of freight transport lines managed trains – wayside and vehicle using ASTS office systems, including: • Roy Hill Iron Ore Project– 350 km, Signalling and • U  nion Pacific (Planning system for traffic telecommunication systems: Signalling system based on optimisation) radio communication with satellite positioning – wayside • C  SX Transportation (Control, supervision and and vehicle automation system) • Fortescue Metal Group, Signalling and • MicroLok® II components for interlocking and telecommunication systems– 250 km, (interlocking) signalling (LED, level crossings, relays, track circuits, signalling system and telecommunications point machines) • Hamersley Iron, Lang Hancock railway line – 65 Over 10,000 units sold to US and Canadian railway km, Signalling (Interlocking, ATP system) and companies, including: telecommunication system and freight protection system • Union Pacific along the line system • CSX Transportation • Aurizon (formerly, Queensland Rail (QR) National) – • Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railways Design and implementation of several (interlocking) • Canadian Pacific signalling projects in East Australia in association with • Canadian National Railway the Synergy Alliance • Alaska Railroad • Pilbara Iron 7-Mile Yard– Design and implementation of • Norfolk Southern (interlocking) signalling systems • Kansas City Southern Lines • Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC) – Design • Quebec North Shore & Labrador Railway and implementation of several signalling and 21 Company profile | Ansaldo STS around the world Ansaldo STS around the world Ansaldo STS, headquartered in Genoa, has four main operating companies: • Ansaldo STS S.p.A. with offices in Genoa, Naples, Piossasco (TO) and Tito Scalo (PZ); • Ansaldo STS US, with offices in Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania) and Batesburg (South Carolina); • Ansaldo STS France, with offices in Les Ulis and Riom; • Ansaldo STS Australia with offices in Brisbane. Ansaldo STS also owns operating entities in Germany, Sweden, Finland, the UK, Spain, China, India, Malaysia, Botswana, South America and Canada as well as many permanent establishments and partnerships in other countries such as South Korea and Turkey. Europe, North Africa & Middle East: Genoa, Naples, Turin, Potenza, Paris, Riom, Copenhagen, London, Madrid, Munich, Stockholm, Thessaloniki, Ankara, Tunis, Oran, Rabat, Abu Dhabi, Riyadh Americas: Pittsburgh, Batesburg, Honolulu, Kansas City, Los Angeles, Rockville, Toronto, Kingston, Lima, Fortaleza, Caracas Global Headquarters (Genoa) Main Offices & Sales Offices Factories Production sites Projects underway in these Countries EMPLOYEES REVENUE (€’000) ORDERS (€’000) COMPANY 2015 2014 GEOGRAPHICAL AREAS 2015 2014 2015 2014 ASTS3 ITALY 1,555* 1,490* Italy 321,918 326,397 173,870 435,515 ASTS FRANCE 822** 792** Rest of Europe 338,856 336,511 351,584 383,798 ASTS USA 672 712 North Africa and the Middle East 104,593 97,105 76,038 10,255 ASTS APAC 656 736 The Americas 246,713 166,173 479,761 675,728 ASTS CHINA 67 69 Asia Pacific 371,757 377,322 254,773 319,672 Total 3,772 3,799 Total 1,383,837 1,303,508 1,336,027 1,824,968 * Including Ansaldo STS Deutschland GmbH employees ** Including Ansaldo STS UK Ltd. and Ansaldo STS Sweden AB employees. 3. ASTS is used to refer to the group of companies in each geographical area. 22 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report LOCATIONS COMPANY Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Italy, Naples Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Italy, Genoa Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Italy, Piossasco (TO) Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Italy, Tito Scalo (PZ) Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Italy, Campi Bisenzio (FI) Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Italy, Brescia Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Italy, Boscoreale (NA) Ansaldo STS S.p.A Denmark, Copenhagen Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Romania, Bucharest Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Greek, Thessaloniki Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Turkey, Ankara Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Germany, Munich Ansaldo STS Deutschland GmbH Arab Emirates, Abu Dhabi Ansaldo STS S.p.A Saudi Arabia, Riyadh Ansaldo STS S.p.A Western Europe and Africa France, Les Ulis Ansaldo STS France S.A. France, Riom Ansaldo STS France S.A. UK, London Ansaldo STS UK Ltd. Spain, Madrid Ansaldo STS Espana S.A.U. Spain, Zaragoza Ansaldo STS Espana S.A.U. Sweden, Solna Ansaldo STS Sweden AB Sweden, Johanneshov Ansaldo STS Sweden AB Sweden, Torsby Ansaldo STS Sweden AB Morocco, Rabat Ansaldo STS France S.A. Tunisia, Tunis Ansaldo STS S.p.A. Libya, Tripoli Ansaldo STS Botswana, Gaborone Ansaldo STS South Africa PTY Ltd. The Americas US, Pittsburgh Ansaldo STS USA Inc. USA, Batesburg Ansaldo STS USA Inc. US, Honolulu Ansaldo Honolulu JV US, Rockville Ansaldo STS USA Inc. US, Kansas City (Lenexa) Ansaldo STS USA Inc. Canada, Toronto Ansaldo STS Canada Inc. Canada, Kingston Ansaldo STS Canada Inc Venezuela, Caracas Ansaldo STS S.p.A Brazil, Fortaleza Ansaldo STS DO Brazil Sistemas de Transporte Ferroviario e Metropolitano LTDA Peru, Lima Ansaldo STS S.p.A Asia Pacific Australia, Brisbane Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Australia, Perth Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Australia, Belmont Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Australia, Canningvale Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Australia, Karratha Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Australia, Sydney Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. Australia, Newcastle Ansaldo STS Australia PTY Ltd. South Korea, Daejeon Ansaldo STS France S.A. India, Bangalore Ansaldo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd India, Kolkata Ansaldo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd India, Delhi Ansaldo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd India, Noida Ansaldo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd India, Jharkhand Ansaldo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd India, Kharagpur Ansaldo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd India, Palwal Ansaldo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd India, Tundla Ansaldo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd India, Ghaziabad Ansaldo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd Bangladesh, Dhaka Ansaldo STS Transportation Systems India Private Ltd Malaysia, Petaling Jaya Ansaldo STS Malaysia SDN BHD Taiwan, Taipei Ansaldo STS S.p.A. China, Beijing Ansaldo STS Beijing Ltd. China, Shanghai Ansaldo STS USA Inc. China, Hong Kong Ansaldo STS Hong Kong, Ltd. 23 Company profile | Company history: milestones Company history: milestones 1853 1904 1990 Gio. Ansaldo e C. is Ferdinando Maria Perrone founded in Genoa. At acquires Ansaldo. In a few years, Ansaldo enters the North the time, Ansaldo was the company grows to own the European market by 1980 already synonymous production sites, encompassing acquiring the transport with excellence in the iron and steel processing, foundries division of Standard Radio Genovese industry. and military production sites & Telephone (SRT). The and employing about 17,000 Finmeccanica and new company is named employees in Genoa alone. In Ansaldo jointly create Ansaldo Trasporti Signal 1918, Ansaldo has a record 80,000 Ansaldo Trasporti System AB (ATSS). In 1993, employees. (ATR). ATR operates Ansaldo Trasporti lists as a company/prime US&S on the NASDAQ. contractor active in the integrated system segment and is listed on the Milan Stock Exchange in 1986. 1935 Ansaldo e C. is rescued by 1880 Bank of Italy after World War I and the financial crisis of Ansaldo e C. is founded for the 1929. The crisis ends with construction and maintenance of railway equipment. At the turn of the establishment of IRI (the Institute for Industrial 1988 the century, the company begins Reconstruction) which takes control of Ansaldo and sells it Ansaldo Trasporti acquires building boats. Production to Finmeccanica in 1948. 100% of Union Switch stretched from the port of & Signal (US&S), now Genoa towards Sampierdarena Ansaldo STS USA, a leading and Sestri Ponente, and the signalling system company. company employed more than In 1989, it acquires 49% 10,000 people. of CSEE Transport, formerly known as Compagnie de Signaux pour Chemins de Fer, headquartered in Paris. 24 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report 2012 2007-09 In Australia, Ansaldo STS’s signalling solution is • 2007: Ansaldo STS hailed as a revolutionary develops the first Vital Positive Train ControlTM technological innovation 2014 at global level. Indeed, the system for the railway 2001 centralised interlocking and On many occasions, 2014 was network in Alaska. automatic train protection defined as a record year. As well • 2008: the first ERTMS (ATP) system uses satellite as recording positive financial line in India is supplied Ansaldo Trasporti positioning. results, Ansaldo STS achieved and delivered. transfers its Systems and exceeded many objectives • 2009: the new catenarybusiness unit to Ansaldo in its core business during the free system, TramWave®, Trasporti Sistemi year. is unveiled at the UITP Ferroviari, a new The main orders acquired fair. company created in include, Lima metro Lines 2 2000. Ansaldo Trasporti and 4, Milan Line 4 (Italy), is delisted and merged the Aarhus LTR system into Finmeccanica. (country) and the variation to the Copenhagen City Ring (Denmark), the Navi Mumbai Metro (India) and several contracts with Rio Tinto (Australia). 2006 1995 In 2006, a special 2010-11 2013 purpose entity Ansaldo STS • 2010: after awarded the contracts Through US&Sit enters Ansaldo STS is awarded the contract acquires all Ansaldo metro Genoa and Naples, the year the Australian market and to develop the technological part Signal and Ansaldo ends with the acquisition of the then Asia Pacific. In 1997, of the longest line (over 40 km) Trasporti Sistemi Copenhagen contract to build the US&S Australia becomes of the new Riyadh metro in Saudi Ferroviari shares Cityringen. the regional headquarters. Arabia, confirming the company’s from Finmeccanica. • 2011: Ansaldo STS arrives in In 1996, Ansaldo Trasporti increasing renown for its solutions At the end of March Hawaii by signing a very important creates Ansaldo Signal and experience in the development 2006, Ansaldo STS is contract worth a total of US$1,344 NV in which all signalling of metro lines around the world. admitted to the STAR million for the development of the activities, specifically Union In the field of innovation, in 2013, segment of the Milan technology and supply of vehicles Switch & Signal and those research projects become fruitful Stock Exchange. for the new driverless urban rail in of CSE (of which it acquires with the first contract for a tram the remaining 51%) are Honolulu. The contract entails the powering solution without overhead concentrated. The company design, construction, operation and lines called TramWave® in the city of is listed on the NASDAQ and maintenance of Honolulu’s new line, Zhuhai (China). remains so until 2000. stretching roughly 32 kilometres and stopping at 21 stations. 25 Company profile | 2015 results 2015 results On 24 February 2015, Hitachi Ltd. and Finmeccanica S.p.A. reported that they had signed binding agreements whereby Hitachi would purchase Finmeccanica’s entire equity investment in Ansaldo STS S.p.A. (approximately 40% of share capital) and AnsaldoBreda S.p.A.’s current business, except for some revamping activities and specific residual contracts. The closing of the above transaction is expected to take place in 2015 and is subject to specific conditions, typical for this kind of transactions, such as antitrust and regulatory authorisations. Since 2 November, Hitachi has become the new majority shareholder, with an equity investment of 40%. On 4 January 1016, Hitachi Rail Italy Investments S.r.l. launched a public tender offer for the remaining 60% of Ansaldo STS’s shares. Profit for the year Revenue + 15% Operating profitability 6% from €81 to €93 million + from €1,303 to €1,384 million + 0.2 p.p. from 9.6% to 9.8% Share price + 18% strong growth Net financial position Free Cash Flow +€ 45 million from -€293.4 to -€338.7 million (positive net cash) +€ 12 million from €76 to €88 million Main plant roll-outs Projects 28 Km Approx. 1,800 Stations 78 Metro High speed lines Conventional line Freight lins Milano Line 5 Seoul-Busan (phase 2) Modernization project of Roy Hill: VBTO revenue (San Siro) Honam Line Torino-Padova line* service Metro Roma Line C CTC extension Rio Tinto: AutoHaul® (Parco di Centocelle Firenze-Roma* pilot runs to Lodi) Paris-Strasbourg (LGV EE phase 1) ACC & SCC: Napoli & Palermo nodes  BTC Metro in Cina: C enhancement Chengdu line 1 Hangzhou line 1 Modernization project of Hangzhou line 4 (phase 1) the national line Shenyang line 2 Interlocking (9 stations) Dalian line 1 (phase 1) Dalian line 2 (phase 1) Mersin Toprakkale* Tianjin line 5 (phase 2) * Attivation of a line portion as scheduled. 26 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Acquired orders In business terms, 2015 was the year of contracts. US$338 million contract awarded by the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) for the provision of a complete Positive Train Control (PTC) system along the entire railway line (commuter and other). This contract is another step forward for Ansaldo STS in its role of railway technology system integrator in North America, obtained in the wake of the success of many global turnkey projects. Ansaldo STS’s scope of activity will include the design, integration, material delivery, onand off-board installation, testing, delivery, technical support and documentation of the PTC system. This system will provide an ACSES II and I-ETMS-based integrated system on all commuter railway lines, enabling MBTA to meet its obligations with the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) requirements. US$53.2 million contract awarded by Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) for the development and installation of Communications Based Train Control(CBTC) technology on the Media Sharon Hill lines. Thanks to the new signalling system, the SEPTA integrated control centre will centrally supervise and program lines, while improving line performance and safety. Ansaldo STS is currently working with SEPTA on the installation of a PTC system on 13 of its lines to meet the current requirements of the FRA. US$31.5 million contract awarded to design, supply, test and deliver a Signalling and Train Control (S&TC) system for the west-side extension of the Los Angeles metro. The extension will be approximately 3.9 miles long, from the current Wilshire/Western Station final stop to the new Wilshire/La Cienega station and will include a total of three stations. The new system will ensure safe and efficient train movement along the main line of extensions and route management tracks (interlocking). The system will meet the relevant requirements through Automatic Train Protection (ATP), Automatic Train Operation (ATO) and Automatic Train Supervision (ATS) systems, as well as the Train-to-Wayside Communication (TWS) system. 27 Company profile | 2015 results Main orders acquired in 2015 COUNTRY PROJECT CUSTOMER VALUE (€m) US MBTA Positive Train Control MBTA 305 Australia RAFA Variation Orders Rio Tinto 162 Denmark Copenhagen Cityringen O&M and variation Metroselskabet 119 Other Components Other 73 Saudi Arabia Riyadh Metro Iconic stations ADA 62 US Components Other 54 US SEPTA Sharon Hill SEPTA 48 Other Service & Maintenance Other 44 Spain Madrid Lleyda maintenance extension ADIF 42 Naples municipal Italy Naples Line 6 Variation Orders authorities 30 US Los Angeles West Side Subway LACTMA 28 France Bistandard onboard Plan programme SNCF SNCF 18 US NYCT 4th 6th Avenue NYCT 15 Italy Trenitalia repairs Trenitalia 13 Italy CTO STB rolling stock upgrade Trenitalia 12 China Tianjin metro line 5 Insigma 10 28 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Awards Transport Deal of the Year 2015 Line 5 of the Milan metro was named Transport Deal of the Year 2015 at the PFI Awards, a prestigious event promoted by the Project Finance International Magazine which recognises financial excellence around the word. This is the first example of project financing for urban transport infrastructure in Italy which was completed as planned and without additional costs. The M5 uses Ansaldo STS driverless technology, featuring remote control of daily railway traffic and providing passengers with an ongoing and reliable service. P3 Deal of the Year Line 2 of the Lima metro, the largest public/private partnership in Perù, to be carried out on international financial markets, was named P3 Deal of the Year at the PFI Awards, Latin America category, promoted by Project Finance International Magazine. Ansaldo STS is part of the Nuevo Métro de Lima consortium. The solutions for this project feature the CommunicationBased Train Control (CBTC) technology with Unattended Train Operation (UTO), currently the most sophisticated signalling technology in the Mass Transit sector. Copenhagen metro, bridge 29 Company profile | Main ongoing projects Main ongoing projects SUSTAINABLE GLOBAL LEADERSHIP • OVER 3,000 KM OF CONVENTIONAL SYSTEMS •M  ORE THAN 250 KM OF UNMANNED AND DRIVERLESS METROS • 230 KM OF CONVENTIONAL METROS • OVER 5,000 KM OF HIGH SPEED SYSTEMS • OVER 80,000 KM OF MANAGED FREIGHT LINES America East coast Washington Metro CSX New York Metro SEPTA PTC e Sharon Hill Long Island LIRR MBTA West coast LACMTA LA West Side Extension Hawaii Honolulu Driverless Metro Lima Perù Metro Lima Lines 2 and 4 30 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Europe Italy Linea AV UK Greece Brescia-Treviglio Linea Ferriby-Gilberdyke Thessaloniki Metro Metro: Glasgow Subway Italy Conventional Line Turkey Linea Torino Padova Denmark Mersin Toprakkale Copenhagen Metro and Gebze Köseköy Italy Metro City-Ring + O&M, Metro: Ankara Roma, Napoli, Milano, Brescia, Genova Aarhus LRT France High-Speed line Sweeden Tours-Bordeaux (SEA) Happarandabanan Le-Mans-Rennes (BPL) Metro Stockholm Red Line Spain High-Speed line Germany Madrid-Lerida O&M SeRoBe La Robla Pola de Lena Velaro North Africa and the Middle East Algeria Saudi Arabia Metro Oued Tlelat-Tlemcen line Riyadh Metro Line 3 Morocco United Arab Emirates Main line Tangiers-Kenitra HSL Abu Dhabi section 1 Asia Pacific and Australia South Korea Malaysia HSL Metropolitan Line MNDT China Taipei Xi-Bao Metro: Circular Line Metro: Shenyang, Chengdu, Hangzhou, Xian, Zhengzhou, Australia Dalian, Shanghai, Wenzhou, Rio Tinto framework Tianjin line 5 agreement TramWave® phase 1 Zhuhai (RAFA) Roy Hill India Moreton Bay Rail Link KFW, TPWS (North South) Metro: Calcutta, Mumbai Monorail, Navi Mumbai Metro 31 Company profile | Corporate Governance Corporate Governance4 Ansaldo STS adopts a corporate governance system • code of ethics; that is based on the highest business management • Organizational, management and control model transparency and fair practice standards. This pursuant to Legislative decree no. 231/01; corporate governance system is compliant with the • shareholders’ meeting regulations; provisions of law and with the regulatory provisions of • Board of Directors’ regulations; CONSOB and Borsa Italiana. It is also in line with the • risk and control committee regulations; contents of the code of conduct for listed companies • appointments and remuneration committee adopted by Borsa Italiana S.p.A. which Ansaldo STS regulations; has implemented and international best practice. The • related party transactions procedure adopted corporate governance system is aimed at maximising pursuant to article 4 of Consob regulation no. 17221 value for shareholders, monitoring business risks, of 12 March 2010; transparency with the market and reconciling the • procedure for keeping and updating the register of interests of all shareholders, with particular attention persons with access to privileged information; on smaller shareholders. • procedure for the management and communication of privileged information; Ansaldo STS’s corporate governance system is based • internal dealing code of conduct. on a traditional model, and includes: • shareholders’ meetings; • the Board of Directors, which includes the following Board of Directors committees; Ansaldo STS’s Board of Directors has the widest risk and control committee; powers for the management of the company, with the appointments and remuneration committee; power to take any and all suitable action to achieve • the board of statutory auditors; the company purpose, except for those reserved for • the independent auditors. shareholders. The company’s main corporate governance tools are The current Board of Directors was appointed by the listed below: shareholders during the ordinary meeting held on • by-laws; 13 May 2016. Risk and Appointments control and remuneration BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN OFFICE committee committee Indep. Indep. In office List Nonunder under the Office Components In office until Exec. % *** ** *** ** since (M/m) esec. the Cons. fin. code act Alistair 13 May Shareholders’ meeting approving Chairman M X N.A N.A N.A Dormer 2016 the 2018 financial statements Deputy Katherine 13 May Shareholders’ meeting approving M x N.A N.A N.A Chairman Jane Mingay 2016 the 2018 financial statements Andrew 13 May Shareholders’ meeting approving Director M x N.A N.A N.A Thomas Barr 2016 the 2018 financial statements Katharine 13 May Shareholders’ meeting approving Director M x x x N.A X N.A Chairman N.A Rosalind Painter 2016 the 2018 financial statements Giuseppe 13 May Shareholders’ meeting approving Director m x x x N.A N.A N.A Bivona 2016 the 2018 financial statements Rosa 13 May Shareholders’ meeting approving Director m x x x N.A N.A N.A Cipriotti 2016 the 2018 financial statements Alberto de 13 May Shareholders’ meeting approving ChairDirector M x x x N.A N.A X N.A Benedictis 2016 the 2018 financial statements man Mario 13 May Shareholders’ meeting approving Director M x x x N.A X N.A X N.A Garraffo 2016 the 2018 financial statements Fabio 13 May Shareholders’ meeting approving Director m x x x N.A N.A N.A Labruna 2016 the 2018 financial statements * This column indicates M/m, showing whether the member was elected from a majority (M) or minority (m) list. ** This column indicates the percentage of director participation in board and committee meetings respectively during the period considered (no. of meetings attended/no. of meetings held during the term of office). *** In questa colonna è indicata con una “X” l’appartenenza del componente del C.d.A. al Comitato. 4. F or additional details, reference should be made to the “Directors’ report on the corporate governance system and the implementation of the code of conduct for listed companies for 2015”. 32 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report The following table illustrates the composition of the Board of Directors in 2015. Risk and Appointments control and remuneration BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN OFFICE until 13 May 2016 committee committee Indep. Indep. Number under In office List Nonunder % of other Office Components In office until Esec. the **** ** **** ** since (M/m) esec. the ** offices Cons. code *** fin. act Alistair 2 November Shareholders’ meeting approving Chairman M X(6) 100 Dormer 2015 (1) the 2017 financial statements Deputy Karen 2 November Shareholders’ meeting approving M X 100 Chairman Boswell 2015 (2) the 2017 financial statements Stefano 2 November Shareholders’ meeting approving CEO M X 100 Siragusa 2015 (3) the 2017 financial statements Giovanni 2 November Shareholders’ meeting approving ChairDirector m X X X 100 1 100 (7) -(8) Cavallini 2015 the 2017 financial statements man Bruno 2 November Shareholders’ meeting approving Director M X X X 100 X 100 X(9) 100 Pavesi 2015 the 2017 financial statements Giulio 2 November Shareholders’ meeting approving ChairDirector m X X X 100 85,7 Gallazzi 2015 the 2017 financial statements man(10) Alessandra 9 November Director Next shareholders’ meeting X X X 100 1 X 100 Piccinino 2015 (4) Paola 2 November Shareholders’ meeting approving Director m X X X 100 X 100 Giannotti 2015 the 2017 financial statements Mario 25 November Director Next shareholders’ meeting X X X 100 3 Garraffo 2015 (5) (1) Alistair Dormer was appointed chairman of the Board of Directors by the shareholders in their meeting of 2 November 2015. (2) Karen Boswell was appointed deputy chairwoman of the Board of Directors on 25 November 2015, replacing Ryoichi Hirayanagi. (3) Co-opted by the Board of Directors on 11 December 2013 and, with effect from 1 January 2014, replacing Mr. Grasso. (4) Co-opted by the Board of Directors on 9 November 2015, replacing Barbara Poggiali. (5) Co-opted by the Board of Directors on 25 November 2015, replacing Ryoichi Hirayanagi. (6) Alistair Dormer, as chairman of the Board of Directors, has an executive role, although he did not receive any specific proxy from the board. Consequently, he does not hold any executive role within the company, due to the positions he holds in the Hitachi Group. (7) From 1 January 2015 to 2 November 2015, Mr. Cavallini has been a member of the Appointments and remuneration committee. (8) Being a member of the Appointments and remuneration committee from 1 January 2015 to 2 November 2015, Mr. Cavallini participated in 5 out of 6 meetings. (9) From 1 January 2015 to 2 November 2015, Mr. Pavesi has acted as chairman of the Appointments and remuneration committee. (10) From 1 January 2015 to 2 November 2015, Mr. Gallazzi has been a member of the Appointments and remuneration committee. BOARD OF DIRECTORS BY AGE AND GENDER MEN WOMEN < 40 40-50 1 51-60 2 3 > 60 3 Risk and Appointments control and remuneration DIRECTORS WHO LEFT DURING THE YEAR committee committee Indep. Indep. List Non% Office Components In office since In office until Esec. under under *** ** *** ** (M/m) esec. ** the code the code Sergio 15 April Chairman 30 October 2015(2) M X(3) 92.3 De Luca 2014(1) Deputy Domenico 1 October 2 November 2015 _ X 76.9 Chairman Braccialarghe 2014(4) Deputy Ryoichi 2 November 20 November 2015 M X 100 Chairman Hirayanagi 2015 Alessandra Director 15 April 2014 2 November 2015 M X 100 Genco Paola Director 15 April 2014 2 November 2015 M X X X 92.3 X 100 Pierri Barbara Director 15 April 2014 3 November 2015 m X X X 100 X 100 Poggialii (1) Co-opted by the Board of Directors on 14 June 2007. On 11 December 2013, Mr. De Luca resigned from the office of CEO and was appointed chairman of the Board of Directors with effect from 1 January 2014. (2) Mr. De Luca announced he would resign on 30 October 2015 with immediate effect. (4) As Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. De Luca has not received any operating proxies. However, he is considered to be an executive director pursuant to the code of conduct as he has been the Operations general manager of Finmeccanica S.p.A., which manages and coordinates Ansaldo STS, since 1 January 2014. (4) Co-opted by the Board of Directors on 1 October 2014, replacing Luigi Calabria who acted as director and deputy chairman from 1 January 2014 to 1 October 2014. 33 Company profile | Corporate Governance Appointment of the Board of Directors For additional information on the appointment of the The company is managed by a Board of Directors Board of Directors during the ordinary shareholders’ consisting of at least seven and not more than 13 meeting of 13 April 2016, reference should be made to members. Before electing the board, the shareholders the Company’s website5. decide what the number of members will be within this range. The directors are appointed for up to three Directors’ requirements and duties years and can be re-elected pursuant to article 2383 Under the by-laws, in order to take office as director, one of the Italian Civil Code. must not only meet the requirements of honourableness provided for by current legislative and regulatory In line with the amendments to the Consolidated provisions (or any similar requirements established by finance act introduced by Law no. 120 of 12 July equivalent provisions), but must also meet the specific 2011, the current by-laws – following the most recent requirements of professionalism indicated in the by-laws. changes made by the shareholders at the extraordinary meeting of 6 May 2013 – provide for mechanisms to In particular, candidates may not be appointed director ensure a balance of men and women on the boards of of the company, and if they have been appointed, their directors and statutory auditors, which will be applied term of office is considered immediately terminated, upon the first three renewals of the board of statutory if they do not have at least three years of overall auditors after one year following the date when the experience in the following: aforementioned law takes effect (i.e. after 12 August • administration or supervision activities or managerial 2012). duties with companies with a share capital of at least €2 million; The directors are appointed by the shareholders during • professional activities or university teaching as a full an ordinary meeting by voting for lists. professor of legal, economic, financial or technical/ scientific subjects closely related to the company’s Each list must include two candidates who meet business activity; or the independence requirements provided for by law, • senior management functions with public bodies or indicating them separately and placing one at the top administrations active in the credit, financial and of the list. insurance sectors or, in any case, in industries which are closely related to the company’s business activity. Furthermore, lists with a number of candidates equal to or more than three must include candidates of This experience can be assessed on the basis of the different genders, in accordance with the notice of candidates’ curriculum vitae, which should contain call of the shareholders’ meeting, so that the new exhaustive information on the personal and professional Board of Directors is comprised of members of the characteristics of each candidate and be available least represented gender, in accordance with current to the public, along with each list pursuant to article legislation. In the event of fractions, the number is 144-octies.1 of the Issuers Regulation. The Board of rounded up. If these obligations are not met, the list is Directors verifies that these requirements are met by considered as not having been submitted. each of its members. In order to ensure the effective participation of nonNon-executive directors controlling owners in corporate management and The Board of Directors is mainly comprised of nonthe transparency of the selection and appointment executive members (who have not been assigned process for directors, the by-laws explicitly enable each any operating powers and/or management functions shareholder to submit or participate in the submission within the company) to guarantee, given the number of one list only, that each candidate can be presented of such directors and their degree of authority, in one list only or will be considered ineligible and that that their judgement significantly influences board each rightful voter can vote for one list only. decisions. The shareholders elect the Chairman of the Board Non-executive directors bring their specific expertise of Directors, selecting the Chairman from among the to board discussions, to support the examination members of the board. If the shareholders do not elect of matters considered from a different perspective the Chairman, the Chairman is elected by the board and to encourage the adoption of wellthought out itself. The board can also elect a Deputy Chairman, resolutions, in line with the company’s interests. replacing the Chairman when the Chairman is absent At present all members, except the CEO and or unable to chair the board. Chairman, are non-executive directors. 5. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/it/governance/consiglio-amministrazione/nomina 34 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Independence of directors mandatory public tender offer launched by Hitachi Rail In implementation of the provisions of the code Italy Investments S.r.l. on all Ansaldo STS’s shares. of conduct, on 9 November 2015, following the appointment of the directors and co-opting of Board of directors activities and assessment of its Alessandra Piccinino, and with respect to the functioning director Mario Garraffo on the date he was co-opted In 2015, the board held 18 meetings. Any absences (25 November 2015), the Board of Directors has were duly justified. The average length of the board’s evaluated, based on the statements of the above meetings in 2015 was approximately three and a people, whether the independent directors are party quarter hours. to any relationships that could, or could appear to, jeopardise their independent judgement. The findings The meetings of the Board of Directors saw the of this evaluation were disclosed to the market in a participation, depending on the items on the agenda, press release on 9 and 25 November 2015. of the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Internal Audit Manager and, upon On 13 November 2015, after the appointment of the Chairman’s recommendation, other company the directors and co-opting of Alessandra Piccinino, managers, in order to provide suitable details on the and with respect to the director Mario Garraffo on 9 items on the agenda. December 2015, the board of statutory auditors, on the basis of the statements made by the directors In 2015, the secretary to the board and General and considering the board’s findings, certified Counsel & Compliance function manager Filippo Corsi the board’s evaluation of the independence of its participated in all the board meetings. members in accordance with the criteria. In accordance with the by-laws, the Board of Directors Following the appointment of the Board of Directors meets whenever the Chairman, or another member by the shareholders in their ordinary meeting on 13 in his place, deems it necessary, or upon the written May 2016, the Board of Directors checked: i) on request of the majority of board members. 16 May 2016, the independence of the following directors: Katharine Rosalind Painter, Alberto de On 15 February 2016, with respect to the annual Benedictis, Giuseppe Bivona, Rosa Cipriotti and Fabio evaluation process of the size, composition and Labruna and ii) on 24 May 2016, the independence working of the board and its committees, in of the director Mario Garraffo. The findings were accordance with the recommendations of article disclosed to the market in the press releases dated 1.C.1.g) of Borsa Italiana’s code of conduct for listed 16 May 2016 and 24 May 2016. Companies, the board decided not to carry out this evaluation process in 2015 since most directors, The independent directors met without the other appointed by the shareholders in their meeting of 2 directors on 17 November, 1 December and 16 November 2015, held this office for the first time. December 2015 to express the opinion required by article 39 bis of the Issuer Regulation on the Merano station 35 Company profile | Corporate Governance Committees and risk management system, also approving the In order to increase the efficiency and effectiveness regulation of the “risk and control committee”. of the work of the Board of Directors, the risk and control committee and the appointments and Risk and control committee remuneration committee have been established within The risk and control committee currently in office the board and in accordance with the criteria of the is comprised of three directors, who are all nonCompany’s code of conduct. executive and independent. They are the directors Alberto De Benedictis (Chairman), Mario Garraffo and In this respect, following the approval of the new code Katharine Rosalind Painter, appointed by the Board of of conduct in December 2011, the Company approved Directors on 16 May 2015. Pursuant to the code, at the adoption of the principles in the updated code, the time of their appointment, the Board of Directors thereby updating its corporate governance system to examined the accounting and financial experience of meet the new provisions. its chairman, Alberto De Benedictis, and the members Mario Garraffo and Katharine Rosalind Painter. In Specifically, on 18 December 2012, the Company the period from 1 January 2015 to 2 November decided, inter alia: (i) to set up an appointments 2015, the risk and control committee was comprised committee, combining it with the previously of Giovanni Cavallini (Chairman), Paola Pierri and established remuneration committee and naming Barbara Poggiali. From 10 November 2015 to 13 May the new committee vested with the dual function 2016, the risk and control committee was comprised the “appointments and remuneration committee”, of the directors Giovanni Cavallini (Chairman), Paola approving its regulation; and (ii) to modify and Giannotti and Bruno Pavesi. redefine the duties and functions of the different parties involved in the company’s internal control The committee meetings are governed by an internal regulation which was last modified by the board on Switch rails of the Merano line 36 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report 18 December 2012, in accordance with the new code With respect to the code of conduct committee’s of conduct dated December 2011. The regulation, functions for both its role in the appointment of directors in its updated version, is available on the company’s and remuneration, reference should be made respectively website6. to articles 5 and 6 of the code, which can be found on the Borsa Italiana S.p.A. website8. The risk and control committee has advisory, proposal and preliminary preparation functions on behalf Directors’ remuneration of the Board of Directors, mainly in relation to the Information on the remuneration of the directors, the definition of guidelines for the internal control and general manager and key managers is given in the risk management system and the periodic evaluation remuneration report, which is prepared pursuant to of the adequacy and effective functioning of the articles 123-ter of the Consolidated finance act and Organizational structure of such a system. 84-quater of the Issuer Regulation, published on the Company’s website9 and made available to the public in Specifically, the committee is responsible for the other ways provided for by current legislation. On 25 verifying the functioning and adequacy of the internal March 2015, the company’s Board of Directors, with the control and risk management system, as well as the prior approval of the appointments and remuneration effective compliance with procedures and internal committee, approved the company’s remuneration directives adopted to both ensure sound and efficient policy for 2015 and Ansaldo STS’s remuneration report, management and identify, prevent and manage, prepared pursuant to article 123-ter of the Consolidated insofar as possible, financial, operational and fraud finance act. The first section of the report illustrates risks to the detriment of the company. the Company’s remuneration policy and the procedures followed to adopt and implement this policy and it was Appointments and remuneration committee therefore put to a non-binding vote by the shareholders In accordance with the provisions of article 37 of the on 23 April 2015, in accordance with article 123-ter. The market regulation, all members of the appointments shareholders approved the report. and remuneration committee are non-executive and independent. Furthermore, on 25 February 2016, upon the proposal of the appointments and remuneration committee, the The committee was appointed by the Board of Directors Board of Directors approved the remuneration policy for on 16 May 2016 and is comprised of the non-executive 2016. independent directors Katharine Rosalind Painter (Chairwoman), Alberto De Benedictis and Mario Garraffo. On the same date, the Board of Directors approved, with the prior approval of the appointments and In the period from 1 January 2015 to 2 November remuneration committee, the remuneration report 2015, the appointments and remuneration committee pursuant to article 123-ter of the Consolidated finance comprised Bruno Pavesi (Chairman), Giovanni Cavallini act. In accordance with the aforementioned article and Giulio Gallazzi. From 10 November 2015 to 13 May 123-ter.6 of the Consolidated finance act, the first 2016, the appointments and remuneration committee section of the remuneration report, which illustrates the comprised the directors Giulio Gallazzi (Chairman), 2016 remuneration policy for members of the Board of Alessandra Piccinino and Bruno Pavesi. Directors, the general manager and key managers, was approved by the shareholders’ meeting on 3 May 2016. In accordance with article 6.P.3 of the code of conduct, when the committee members were appointed, the company’s Board of Directors verified and certified that all Board of statutory auditors the directors had accounting and financial expertise and The statutory auditors are appointed by the experience. shareholders during an ordinary meeting by voting for lists. In line with the amendments to the The committee’s activities are governed by a regulation Consolidated finance act introduced by Law no. 120 in line with the code of conduct. The board approved the of 12 July 2011, the current by-laws – following the regulation on 29 January 2007 and it was later modified most recent changes made by the shareholders at on 12 May 2008, 5 March 2012 and 18 December the extraordinary meeting of 6 May 2013 – provide 2012. The regulation is available on the company’s for mechanisms to ensure a balance of men and website7. 6. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/sites/ansaldosts.message-asp.com/files/downloadspage/7_regolamento_comitato_controllo_e_rischi_clean_0.pdf 7. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/sites/ansaldosts.message asp.com/files/downloadspage/5_regolamento_comitato_nomine_e_remunerazione_clean.pdf 8. http://www.borsaitaliana.it/borsaitaliana/regolamenti/corporategovernance/codice2015.pdf 9. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/it/assemblea-azionisti-2015 37 Company profile | Corporate Governance women on the boards of directors and statutory Furthermore, the lists that, considering both auditors, which will be applied upon the first three sections, include a number of candidates equal to renewals of the board of statutory auditors after one or greater than three must also include, for both the year following the date when the aforementioned law first two candidates on the list for standing statutory takes effect (i.e. after 12 August 2012). auditors and the first two candidates on the list for the replacement statutory auditors, candidates of As with the presentation of lists of candidates for the different genders. appointment of members of the Board of Directors, if a list of candidates for the office of statutory auditor The Chairman of the board of statutory auditors is is not submitted within the above term, the lists will appointed by the shareholders and is the standing be considered as not having been submitted. auditor elected by the minority, unless only one list is voted for or no list is submitted. In these cases, the The lists include the names of one or more shareholders appoint the Chairman of the board of candidates, and the number listed may not exceed statutory auditors according to the legal majorities. the number of members to be elected. Each candidate can be presented in one list only or will The current board of statutory auditors was be considered ineligible. Lists are divided into appointed by the shareholders in their ordinary two sections: one for candidates for the office of meeting of 15 April 2014 and it has three standing standing statutory auditor and one for candidates statutory auditors and three substitute statutory for the office of substitute statutory auditor. The first auditors. candidate in each section must be registered with the roll of certified auditors and have at least three During the year, the board held 11 meetings. years of experience in the performance of legallyThe following table provides information on the required audits. attendance of each statutory auditor at the meetings of the board of statutory auditors and the Board of Directors in 2015: Level crossing 38 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Board of statutory auditors in office Board of statutory Board of directors Members auditors attendance attendance Giacinto Sarubbi (Chairman) 100% 100% Renato Righetti 100% 100% Maria Enrica Spinardi * 91% 94.7% *in office since 15 April 2014. The board of statutory auditors is responsible for • the adequacy of the company’s instructions to monitoring: its subsidiaries pursuant to article 114.2 of the Consolidated finance act; • compliance with the law and by-laws; • the financial disclosure process; • compliance with the principles of correct • the efficiency of internal control, internal audit and risk administration; management systems; • the adequacy of the company’s Organizational • the legally-required audit of the annual separate and structure in the areas for which it is responsible, consolidated financial statements; the adequacy of the internal control system and the • the independence of the independent auditors or administrative/accounting system, and the latter’s independent audit company, particularly with respect reliability in correctly reflecting operations; to the provision of non-audit services to the company; • the actual implementation method of the corporate • the compliance of the company’s related partygovernance rules established by the codes of transaction procedures with the principles of the conduct prepared by the companies that manage related-party regulation and their compliance, regulated markets or trade associations, with which reporting to the shareholders in this respect pursuant the company is required to comply through public to article 153 of the Consolidated finance act. disclosure; 39 Company profile | Internal control and risk management system Internal control and risk management system Ansaldo STS’s internal control and The Internal audit unit’s audit The Model is available on the risk management system provides plan was approved by the Board company’s web site. for the involvement of the following of Directors as required by officers: Borsa Italiana’s code of conduct Ansaldo STS S.p.A.’s supervisory • Board of directors; for listed companies and the body has several members, • Director responsible for the unit head prepares regular including two external members, internal control and risk reports for the risk and control one of whom serves as management system; committee. Specifically, audit Chairman, and both of whom were • Risk and control committee; procedures performed in 2015 selected among academics and • Internal Audit Manager; covered contract, engineering professionals with demonstrated • Manager in charge of financial and development, purchases and expertise and experience in legal, reporting pursuant to Law no. compliance of certain significant economic and financial issues, as 262/2005; procedures for compliance well as one internal member who • Supervisory body set up in purposes and monitoring progress is the interim General Counsel & implementation of Legislative of the actions plans drawn up as a Compliance manager. The Board decree no. 231 of 8 June 2001; result of the audit work. of Directors approved the current • Board of statutory auditors. composition of the supervisory In order to ensure that the body on 6 May 2013, providing With the assistance of the risk conduct of all those operating for the presence of two external and control committee and also on the company’s behalf or in its members to further accentuate on the basis of the activities interests is always consistent the board’s independence and of the director responsible for with the principles of correctness autonomy. the internal control and risk and transparency in business management system, the Board dealings and company activities, Any conduct contrasting with the of Directors defines guidelines Ansaldo STS has adopted an ethical principles described in the for this system, so that the main Organizational, management code of ethics or the indications risks to which the company is and control model (the “Model”) in the Organizational, management exposed are correctly identified in line with the requirements of and control model pursuant to and adequately measured, Legislative decree no. 231/01 Legislative decree no. 231/01 can managed and monitored. It and the guidelines issued be anonymously reported to the also determines the degree of by Confindustria, Italy’s main supervisory body, which evaluates compatibility of such risks with Organization representing Italian the reports in accordance with business management in line manufacturing and service the relevant company procedure with the strategic objectives companies. The code of ethics currently in place. In this respect, identified. In addition, within is an integral part of this Model. in 2015, no reports were made the scope of the definition of The company has also set up and no sanctions were imposed strategic business and financial a supervisory body to monitor following violations pursuant to plans, the Board of Directors application of the Model. Legislative decree no. 231/01. defines the nature and level of risks, in accordance with the The Model was last updated by issuer’s strategic objectives. resolution of the Board of Directors The methodological approach on 25 February 201510, mainly taken to evaluate and manage to include the self-laundering the internal control and risk crime (introduced by Law no. management system refers to 186 of 15 December 2014), the internationally recognised certain regulatory updates (Law Enterprise Risk Management no. 69/2015 on “Anti-corruption framework of the Committee of law” and Law no. 68/2015 on Sponsoring Organizations of the “Environmental crimes”) and some Treadway Commission (COSO Organizational updates. report). 10. For additional details, reference should be made to the “Directors’ report on the corporate governance system and the implementation of the code of conduct for listed companies for 2015”. 40 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Ansaldo STS Satellite-based Signalling System & Telecoms for Train Control System 41 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Sustainability governance 45 Materiality analysis 46 Sustainability risks and opportunities 48 Stakeholder engagement 54 Sustainability programme 61 Ethics and integrity 64 Local corporate social responsibility 68 Ansaldo STS boasts a widespread presence on international markets with operations in varied contexts and many different stakeholders, making governance of sustainability issues and the management of relationships between Ansaldo STS and its stakeholders of the utmost importance. Stakeholders include any party individuals, groups, companies or institutions that are public or private with a direct interest in the company’s activities. 42 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report 22 reported objectives: 19 met and 3 postponed 35 due to the organisational change new sustainability objectives defined in 2016 (+60%) New economic, social and environmental risk benefit analysis New materiality matrix Reporting of Ansaldo STS France, US and Australia CSR Global local initiatives Compact membership for the fifth year Involvement of local communities: Founding the Honolulu, sponsor of the Lima and Global Compact Copenaghen Network Italy metro experience foundation 43 Sustainability governance Sustainability governance Transparency and upstanding conduct in operations and trust and cooperation with stakeholders are the ethical principles to which Ansaldo STS aspires to effectively and fairly compete on markets, improve customer satisfaction, increase value for shareholders and develop the skills and professional growth of its human resources. The company’s socially responsible conduct leads to its focus on sustainable development, which for Ansaldo STS is two-fold: • it is tied to the achievement of the company’s safety and quality management system and has mission, which is to develop railway and established an Internal Sustainability Committee, mass transit systems and create increasingly enabling it to continue on a sustainable growth sophisticated products and solutions that are path and ensuring that each member of its staff safe and environmentally-friendly; acts in accordance with a culture of responsibility. • it is based on the ways in which the company pursues its mission: Ansaldo STS has a corporate Ansaldo STS is aware that its ability to develop governance model, an internal control and risk efficient, long-term and sustainable solutions management system, an integrated environment, affects the quality of life of future generations. 44 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Internal sustainability committee In 2011, Ansaldo STS set The Committee is responsible for: Reporting Initiative, the Global up the Internal sustainability •a  ssessment of social and Compact, the Carbon Disclosure committee (also referred to as environmental risks that concern Project, etc.); the “Committee”), made up of the the company’s operations • definition and coordination of managers of the main company and evaluating the related listening to, discussing with and functions. The Committee’s performance; involving stakeholders: sharing mission is to define the company’s •d  efinition and monitoring of results and the steps to be strategic guidelines for sustainable the sustainability programme, taken; development and the promotion of made up of financial, social and • definition and implementation social responsibility initiatives and environmental objectives; of an internal and external see that they are implemented. • implementation of the relevant sustainability communications The Internal Sustainability codes and rules of social plan. Committee reports directly to the and environmental conduct Chairman and CEO of Ansaldo STS defined by the company (code and collaborates and coordinates of ethics and EHS procedures with the company’s Organizational and policies) or relating to units. international standards (Global BOARD OF DIRECTORS CEO and GENERAL MANAGER INTERNAL STAFF BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY FUNCTIONS FUNCTIONS COMMITTEE In 2015, the Internal Sustainability Committee specifically engaged in the following activities: -a  dopt the Global Reporting The Board of Directors’ • expanded the materiality Initiative G4 Sustainability involvement analysis by involving new Reporting guidelines; The Board of Directors is involved stakeholders in order to confirm the Global Compact in approving the Sustainability define their priority in terms of and participate in the Carbon Report while the CEO prepares sustainability; Disclosure Project; and approves the sustainability • extended the opportunities improve internal and programme, i.e., the action and risks analyses tied to external sustainability plan to be implemented during sustainability management, communications; the year, targets, reporting and through their description participate in the Global communications. and identification of their Compact Network Italy importance (low, medium, projects. high); • defined and discussed the 2015 reporting project with the following objectives: 45 Sustainability governance | Materiality analysis Materiality analysis Aspects that have a direct or indirect impact on an The stakeholders’ judgement was “weighted” Organization’s ability to create, preserve or damage based on a map which assessed their ability to its economic, environmental or social value, or influence the company’s performance and to be those of its stakeholders and society in general influenced by it. are material. Aggregation of the results gave the following Ansaldo STS has analysed the most relevant matrix. aspects of sustainable development and reported them to its stakeholders. This has contributed to developing a corporate responsibility culture both within and outside the company. The analysis, performed for the third consecutive Link > For more information on the method, see “Methodological note” page 182 year, included more stakeholder categories (suppliers, banks and customers). There were no significant changes compared to 2014. Materiality matrix ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS SOCIAL ASPECTS ECONOMIC AND GOVERNANCE ASPECTS HIGH ANTI CUSTOMER WORKERS’ IMPACT ON STAKEHOLDERS’ OPINIONS AND CHOICES CORRUPTION SATISFACTION SAFETY RESPECT FOR LOCAL COMMUNITIES INNOVATION GOVERNANCE QUALITY CREATION OF SUSTAINABILITY OF RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHT ECONOMIC VALUE THE SUPPLY CHAIN HSE MANAGESOCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT MENT EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES COMPANY WELFARE MEDIUM STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ENERGY CONSUMPTION ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS REDUCTION OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS CONSUMPTION OF RAW MATERIALS WASTE MANAGEMENT WATERS RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY LOW LOW MEDIUM HIGH IMPACT ON ANSALDO STS’ PERFORMANCE The stakeholders and Ansaldo STS remain generally in agreement: aspects considered important to the company are also important to stakeholders. 46 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Economic and governance aspects have a great Environmental aspects have a medium to low influence both in terms of stakeholders’ opinions influence both with regards to the stakeholders’ and the impact on the company’s performance. opinion of the company and its performance. This Customer satisfaction, Creation of economic value is mainly due to the following factors: the type of and Innovation are, in this order, the seen internally business carried out by Ansaldo STS and its sector as the most influential aspects affecting the is not seen as problematic in environmental terms; company’s performance. moreover, internally, the company is aware of the care taken to manage these aspects. Customer satisfaction and Anti-corruption are also the most influential economic aspects with Consumption of energy and raw materials is seen respect to stakeholders’ opinions. The Quality of by the company as important to its performance: governance and the Integrated quality, safety and if the company can reduce this, it saves money, environmental management system are highly positively affects the environment and improves influential aspects with respect to both Ansaldo its stakeholders’ opinion of it. A reduction in the STS’s performance and stakeholders’ opinion. Environmental impact of products has a medium Social risk management has a medium to high to high effect on stakeholders’ perception: the influence on both stakeholders’ opinions and the better they are found to be by customers, the more company’s performance. competitive a company becomes. Social aspects have a medium to high influence on The Reduction of greenhouse gas production has stakeholders’ opinions and performance. Workers’ a medium and medium-low effect on stakeholders’ safety, Training and Welfare are considered as opinions and the company’s performance, factors that have a high positive impact on the respectively. company’s performance internally. Workers’ safety is the most important of the three for Finally, Water management and Protecting stakeholders. biodiversity are the least important aspects both externally andinternally. This is due to the general Respect for human rights is extremely important, view that only certain material impacts can damage both internally and externally, while Respect for biodiversity, which is not the case with regard to local communities is more important externally. Ansaldo STS. Sustainability of the supply chain was also valued as of medium to high importance and influences stakeholders’ opinions more while the Equal opportunities and Stakeholder involvement aspects have the same impact on opinion and the company’s performance. 47 Sustainability governance | Sustainability risks and opportunities Sustainability risks and opportunities Ansaldo STS pursues Enterprise Risk Management by identifying and assessing the main business risks using a risk assessment structured activity that is discussed with senior management and the CEO. In addition to identifying and assessing risks, process risk assessment includes risk management measures, such as the preparation of adequate action plans whose implementation is monitored every quarter. As a result of Ansaldo STS’s analysis of the risks and opportunities of the important sustainability aspects, it has been able to act in advance and effectively preserve the social and environmental value of its business. Risk was graded as follows: low, medium and high, showing the valuation of the risks before they are dealt with: the higher the score, the greater the attention paid by the company to reduce the residual risk and, in most cases, transform it into an opportunity for growth. ECONOMIC AND GOVERNANCE ASPECTS • Commission of crimes and especially corruption by key company personnel, also Value RISK assisted by consultants and sales representatives, in markets characterised by HIGH TRANSPARENCY AND little transparency and high corruption levels •C  onsider the risk of non-transparency and corruption in the measurement of RISK country risk when deciding what markets to enter and work on Stakeholders ANTI-CORRUPTION MANAGEMENT • T ailored Organizational and procedural measures to prevent the commission of involved crimes and especially the risk of corruption • Customers • Suppliers •P  romotion of ethical reputation internally and externally, by committing to • Partners OPPORTUNITY compliance with ethical standards and existing Organizational and procedural • Competitors rules •W  rong estimation of this sector’s innovation needs Value RISK PRODUCT/PROCESS • Inadequate or late management of products’ and components’ obsolescence HIGH • Internal definition processes of the product portfolio and check of technological RISK competition Stakeholders MANAGEMENT INNOVATION •S  pecific processes for effective management of obsolescence involved • Customers • Increased competitiveness arising from appropriate management of innovation • Human OPPORTUNITY needs and correct definition of priorities resources •E  xpected benefits on maintenance and spare parts efficient management • Inadequate management of customer satisfaction and customer complaints. A late and/or inadequate response to customers and expected satisfaction levels Value RISK could compromise Ansaldo STS’ s relations with customers and worsen their HIGH interaction for ongoing projects CUSTOMER SATISFACTION •A  ssembly of an inter-functional customer satisfaction team •M  onitoring and monthly reporting to senior management on the 22 most critical customer satisfaction projects RISK •C  ustomer satisfaction interviews with key customers, after issue of a MANAGEMENT presentation letter from the CEO Stakeholders •H  alf-yearly customer satisfaction self-assessments by the 55 main project teams involved • “ After roll-out” analysis and customer feedback to improve product reliability • Customers •G  lobal management of the customer satisfaction activity for senior management • Human resources • Improved relationships with customers • Improved products OPPORTUNITY • Improved customer interface for ongoing projects •G  reater ability to exploit commercial opportunities 48 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Follows: ECONOMIC AND GOVERNANCE ASPECTS • T he uncertainty of the financial and macro-economic context, the political unrest in some geographical areas, the policies to reduce public deficit, the reduction in raw material prices and the market consolidation may have a negative effect on competitiveness and performance as well as the contraction of margins on new orders Value CHANGE IN THE MARKET AND RISK • Increasingly complex (project financing) or less favourable/onerous contractual HIGH conditions may cause a decrease in financial performance and the contraction of margins on new orders • T he optimisation plans launched may not be implemented as planned, may underperform or require a longer period of time MACRO-ECONOMIC CONTEXT •M  arket and product analysis and prompt strategy adjustment •N  WC (Net Working Capital) and FOCF (Free Operating Cash Flow) monitored by RISK individual project Stakeholders MANAGEMENT •O  ngoing and structured monitoring of the progress of the implementation of involved efficiency-improvement programmes • Customers • Suppliers •G  lobal market that offers significant opportunities in emerging countries and • Partners countries with the highest rate of development • Competitors OPPORTUNITY •O  ptimisation of the operational structure with positive effects on competitiveness and performance • T he policy to penetrate new markets with the highest development rate entails the risks of political, social and economic instability, incorrect assessment of Value RISK local legislation (company, tax and technical), protection of intellectual property, MEDIUM COUNTRY RISK exchange rate fluctuations and the creditworthiness of counterparties, with a negative impact on the financial position •C  ountry risk is assessed as part of the selection of the offers and tenders in Stakeholders RISK which the group decides to participate involved MANAGEMENT •C  ontract management • Customers •M  arket diversification and country risk monitoring • Suppliers • Partners OPPORTUNITY •M  arket share increase • Competitors •D  elays, changes, revisions or cancellations of one or more long-term significant DEPENDENCE ON PUBLIC orders obtained Value RISK •A  ssessing long-term contracts using the percentage of completion method MEDIUM requires the use of estimates that could be disregarded CUSTOMERS AND COMPLEX •S  tructured processes for the periodic review of contract quotations and Stakeholders programmes RISK involved •A  doption of risk management processes, both as part of the offer and project MANAGEMENT • Customers LONG-TERM CONTRACTS execution and life cycle management stages, constantly comparing physical • Suppliers and accounting progress • Partners • Competitors OPPORTUNITY •S  igning of contractual variations • T he non-compliance with the contractual conditions by subcontractors or additional suppliers may harm customers’ relationships and, without prejudice to possible compensation through the right of recourse against subcontractors or THIRD PARTIES (SUBCONTRACTORS, Value RISK additional suppliers, the financial position MEDIUM • T he assessment and selection of partners, subcontractors and additional suppliers, above all in new markets, may be inadequate and have a negative impact on competitiveness and performance •R  ight of recourse against the non-compliant related company •R  isk management processes and request, where applicable, of specific ADDITIONAL SUPPLIERS, PARTNERS) guarantees and back-to-back conditions RISK •S  ubcontractors’ and additional suppliers’ vetting and eligibility processes MANAGEMENT Stakeholders •C  ollaboration with partners already known and of proven reliability involved •D  efinition, signing and management of adequate contractual and grouping • Customers clauses • Suppliers • Partners •A  greements with partners in new markets in order to create business opportunities OPPORTUNITY • F ramework and commercial agreements with new suppliers, specifically on a global level, in order to increase competitiveness and performance 49 Sustainability governance | Sustainability risks and opportunities Follows: ECONOMIC AND GOVERNANCE ASPECTS • Development and engineering activities may be carried out without a clear BUSINESS EFFICIENCY AND ADEQUACY OF understanding of requirements, specifications or efficient configuration Value RISK management MEDIUM • Inadequate market and product references may trigger the risk of losing business opportunities and being non-compliant when executing the project • Processes to manage requirements and configuration in order to ensure the expected quality, deadlines and efficiency levels in line with project and development management • Specific projects are underway to monitor the adequate application of internal TECHNICAL REFERENCES RISK processes to projects Stakeholders MANAGEMENT • During the offer stage, processes which ensure adequate interaction between involved engineering, which reflects customer needs, the portfolio department, which • Customers assesses the technical requirements of the market, and the development • Suppliers department • Partners • Definition and monitoring of the product development roadmap •O  pportunity to improve quality and cut costs with improved management of OPPORTUNITY requirements and configuration • L ate or failed provision of the products or services covered by the contract due to their Value RISK LIABILITY TO potential non-compliance with the customer’s requirements MEDIUM CUSTOMERS OR • Insurance coverage RISK • Careful supervision of engineering and validation processes and monitoring of the Stakeholders THIRD PARTIES FOR MANAGEMENT returns of the year involved NON-COMPLIANCE OF • Non-compliance risks are considered in contract quotations • Customers • Suppliers PRODUCTS SOLD OPPORTUNITY • Improved product reliability parameters • Partners •R  educed insurance costs • F ailure to comply with deadlines and costs, specifically with respect to complex Value BUDGET PROCESSES AND RISK projects, due to a lack of fully successful planning and control processes and MEDIUM weaknesses in project technical management. •D  efined and monitored processes to control physical and accounting progress and risk management PROJECT PLANNING RISK •C  lear allocation of responsibilities to the project team Stakeholders MANAGEMENT •P  roject performance reviewed by management processes involved •E  stimates are reviewed during the offer stage and independent review by the risk • Customers management function OPPORTUNITY • Improving project efficiency and increasing profit margins • Difficulties in obtaining adequate financial conditions for new contracts, delays and/ Value ABILITY TO FINANCE A RISK or suspension of payments and worsening of previously agreed terms of payment LOW • Reduced ability to obtain cost-effective guarantees HIGH LEVEL OF CURRENT •C  ommercial and contract management policies focused on financial aspects RISK • T reasury centralised management in order to optimise cash flows MANAGEMENT • F inancial stability of the contract’s valuation model since the offer stage Stakeholders ACTIVITIES AND TO OBTAIN •O  ngoing monitoring of working capital involved • Customers •D  ecrease in borrowing costs • Suppliers GUARANTEES • Improved terms of payment • Partners OPPORTUNITY •M  arket expansion •N  ew credit lines • IT solutions that do not meet business needs or the strategy or updating of said solutions not in line with users’ needs. Potential unavailability or interruption of INFORMATION SYSTEM Value RISK IT services MEDIUM •P  otential breach of network or data integration (including sensitive data or those subject to intellectual property rights), also as a result of external attacks MANAGEMENT • IT policies base on Organizational and process change plans RISK •G  overnance system based on best practices and in line with structured and Stakeholders MANAGEMENT monitored infrastructure and application management processes, including cyberinvolved security aspects • Customers • Suppliers OPPORTUNITY • Increase in communication flows 50 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report SOCIAL ASPECTS •N  eed to define and apply a safety management model given current local regulations Value RISK •R  ise in the number of accidents and injuries HIGH •N  eed to define and guarantee specialised resources to manage health and WORKERS’ HEALTH safety aspects •O  HSAS 18001-compliant workplace safety management systems Stakeholders AND SAFETY RISK •D  efinition of systems to supervise and monitor compliance of production with involved MANAGEMENT local laws • Human •S  elect specific resources for each project resources • Suppliers •M  ore control over activities and smaller risk of accidents and injuries • Partners OPPORTUNITY •B  etter reputation • Local communities •H  igh technological content, project complexity and global market require human Value RISK resources with specific training, which is often difficult to obtain on the market HIGH HUMAN RESOURCES •H  uman resources management policies closely related to business needs • Integrated human resources management and development system which TRAINING AND RISK includes periodic checks of skills and performance and implements the Stakeholders MANAGEMENT necessary measures to develop skills and improve the allocation of resources involved •P  rocesses and measures to identify the best talents (management and technical DEVELOPMENT • Human profiles) and prepare the related development plans. resources •E  nhancement of resources thanks to the successful application of HR policies OPPORTUNITY and processes, with a positive impact on the company’s performance •R  ise in fraudulent conduct, also due to the current economic situation •U  nderestimation of our customers’ focus on sustainable purchasing and loss of competitiveness if products do not meet minimum standards requested by the Value RISK market MEDIUM •R  eputation risks and disruptions in the supply chain with clear negative impact on the company’s overall working and its financial performance •S  uppliers’ agreement to Ansaldo STS’s code of ethics as an essential condition ETHICAL CONTROL OF THE to signing contracts and tenders •R  eview of the “General contract terms” to ensure compliance by both Ansaldo STS and its suppliers with regulations about calls to tender and public sector tenders RISK •S  ystematic approach to competitive sustainability to ensure customer SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT satisfaction Stakeholders •M  onitor and assess the sustainability level along the supply chain, preferring the involved more sustainable suppliers • Suppliers • Integrate the general supply and tender terms with sanctions clauses • Local •M  onitor the supply chain, including economic, environmental and social impacts communities throughout the entire medium to long-term value chain • Customers •M  ore transparent business relations • F oster a “sustainable” business culture with more critical suppliers increasing their CSR standards OPPORTUNITY •G  uarantee the sustainability of SMEs through the responsible management of the supply chain •C  ut indirect and direct costs by introducing sustainable supply chain practices 51 Sustainability governance | Sustainability risks and opportunities Follows: SOCIAL ASPECTS • T echnical specifications requirements that provide for a certain percentage of local supplies and labour in emerging countries where the required skills have Value PROTECTION OF THE RELATIONS WITH LOCAL RISK not yet been developed or honed MEDIUM •R  isk of negative economic, social and environmental impacts on local communities • Involvement of local suppliers that, if appropriately assisted, can gain the necessary skills • Involve international suppliers with demonstrated experience that are committed to helping local companies RISK •A  ssessment of environmental impact and monitoring MANAGEMENT Stakeholders COMMUNITIES •P  articipation in local stakeholder committees involved •A  ssistance with the promotion of communication between the local authorities • Customers and citizens • Local •P  articipation in programmes to develop local communities communities • Suppliers • Increase in competition in the specific area • Partners • F ind new competitive suppliers that can also be used in other areas benefitting competition OPPORTUNITY • Improved reputation •M  ore competitive due to development of ability to manage relations with the local communities • T he complex nature of the relations with third parties, specifically with respect to international projects, and the content of the developed systems and products, as well as the risks specific to the company’s business entail a significant risk Value RISK of legal disputes. The settlement of disputes may be complex and require a long MEDIUM LEGAL DISPUTES time, causing delays in project implementation and generating a negative effect on the company’s business and financial position and results of operations. •M  onitoring of disputes and careful analysis of contractual provisions with the RISK support of the legal department Stakeholders MANAGEMENT •A  doption of a prudent approach when recognising specific items under contract involved costs and risk provisions • Customers • Suppliers •M  itigation of disputes • Partners OPPORTUNITY •R  eduction in potential delays in project implementation Piscinola-Scampia station of the line MetroCampania Nord Est 52 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS • L ack of compliance with applicable regulations due to inadequately monitored operating processes, specifically in relation to countries that do no follow high ENVIRONMENTAL OBLIGATIONS Value RISK standards or exposed to specific risks HIGH •P  oor assessment of the relevant obligations and of the necessary environmental procedures • ISO14001-certified environmental management systems for the main Ansaldo Stakeholders STS group companies involved RISK •B  ureaucratic requirements in new markets already assessed during the offer • Human MANAGEMENT stage with assistance, including though external consultants resources •C  ommon policies and procedures in order to ensure consistent conduct across • Customers group companies, while considering specific local legislation • Suppliers • Partners •C  ompliance with environmental regulations and improvement in environmental • Local OPPORTUNITY impact communities •E  nvironmental impact of production processes, product composition, energy Value ENVIRONMENTAL RISK consumption and reduction or elimination of hazardous substances HIGH •S  pecial R&D projects RISK Stakeholders •P  artnerships with suppliers to develop components that comply with high MANAGEMENT involved IMPACT OF PRODUCTS robustness, safety and environmental standards Customers Suppliers •G  reater ability to compete with products and solutions that best meet new Partners OPPORTUNITY market demand Local communities •B  etter financial returns •P  ossible negative effects on activities to be performed influenced by climate DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE change Value RISK •R  isks related to changes in regulations and standards that could lead to MEDIUM obsolescence of part of the company’s assets • L ittle awareness and involvement of resources in these aspects •A  nalysis and valuation of the risk and vulnerability to climate change at Stakeholders RISK international level involved GAS EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT •D  efinition of an action plan to guarantee that the improvement measures are: • Human adopted promptly and are effective and consistent over time resources • Future •G  reater ability to manage climate change generations • Increased competitive edge: development of new products and processes with • Suppliers OPPORTUNITY reduced GHG emissions • Local • Improved reputation thanks to the company’s ability to respond effectively to any communities widespread public concerns •R  ise in energy consumption costs Value RISK • L ess able to compete MEDIUM ENERGY CONSUMPTION • Investments to reduce consumption checking potential profitability Stakeholders RISK •A  doption of projects designed to reduce facilities’ energy consumption and the involved MANAGEMENT use of renewable energy sources • Human resources •A  chieve sustainable savings increasing competitiveness • Future •B  etter financial returns generations OPPORTUNITY • Suppliers • Local communities •N  on-compliance with regulations by the company and its suppliers for projects/ Value RISK WASTE AND WASTEWATER activities MEDIUM •C  hanges in laws leading to risks of sanctions •S  ystem to monitor changes in laws at an international level Stakeholders RISK •A  doption of projects designed to reduce facilities’ waste generation and involved MANAGEMENT wastewater management • Human MANAGEMENT resources •B  etter financial returns • Suppliers •B  etter reputation • Future OPPORTUNITY generations • Local communities 53 Sustainability governance | Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement For Ansaldo STSs social responsibility translates into the Ansaldo STS’s performance is evaluated considering the three daily focus and care of its relations with stakeholders. components that characterise sustainable growth: It understands their needs and expectations due to • economic, i.e., attainment of turnover, new customers, order the definition and implementation of specific tools for backlog and profitability objectives; dialogue and interaction. • social, i.e., the company’s capacity to create “shared value” (not just economic) by satisfying requirements and expectations; Stakeholder mapping • environment, health and safety, i.e., meeting objectives The objective is to give each stakeholder category a to reduce the company’s direct and indirect impact on the “weight” to reflect how each category influences the environment and its workers’ health and safety. company’s performance or is influenced by the company. The scores assigned by each member of the internal sustainability committee are reflected in the following map: Stakeholder Map 3.00 Ansaldo STS influence on its stakeholders 2.50 FUTURE GENERATIONS FINANCIAL CUSTOMERS COMMUNITY SHAREHOLDERS LOCAL COMMUNITIES EMPLOYEES 2.00 SUPPLIERS BANKS LOCAL AUTHORITIES UNIVERSITIES TRADE CENTRAL ASSOCIATIONS PUBLIC 1.50 INSTITUTIONS DIGITAL USERS 1.00 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 Stakeholders' influence on Ansaldo STS 54 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report The stakeholder category culture of placing its people at the Local communities, the financial perceived to be most strategic heart of its Organization, seen as community and future generations for the company, in line with essential to its success. are more influenced by the its culture and values, is that company’s operations. of the customers, followed by Suppliers, local authorities and shareholders and employees. The central public institutions are latter’s influence on the company slightly lower on the matrix. Once is seen to be greater than the again, their influence on Ansaldo company’s influence on them. This STS is seen to be greater than decision reflects Ansaldo STS’s Ansaldo STS’s influence on them. 55 Sustainability governance | Stakeholder engagement Relations with stakeholders Ansaldo STS has presented the different ways •p  artnerships: specific projects carried out and/or it interacts with its stakeholders in this report, managed with stakeholders. distinguishing between: • information sessions: one-way communication by the This description is useful to understand how to improve company to stakeholders; the interaction methods with different stakeholder • consultation/dialogue: when the company asks for categories to gradually increase the opportunities for stakeholders’ opinions (e.g., through surveys, polls, dialogue and partnerships, and in so doing create shared focus groups, etc.) or sets up permanent discussion value. groups; STAKEHOLDERS INFORMATION SESSIONS CONSULTATION/DIALOGUE PARTNERSHIPS CUSTOMERS • Periodic project meetings • Customer satisfaction survey • Joint venture agreements • Meetings with customer senior and top • Hazard workshops to test the safety management of products and solutions • Participation at trade fairs, conferences and • Open days to collect feedback from opening ceremonies end users • Communication via the social media HUMAN RESOURCES • Communications about the company’s • Climate analyses (every two years) • Strategic project “Values to performance, delivery of its main projects, • Talent selection and development Actions” for innovation in the acquisitions of new orders programmes (Knowledge Owners) management of operations, • Communication campaign “Share the passion, • Coaching sessions for international allocation of resources, a call to action” for the Value to Action project work teams (Project team commercial strategies and effectiveness) supplier management, in • Assessment of managers by groups compliance with the company’s of peers (360° for managers) values. • Open days for colleagues, families, • Co-funding of manager courses the community and local institutions in the top 10 international business schools (50-50 project) SUPPLIERS • Requests for information, references, • Requests for technical and price bids; • M edium to long-term supply catalogues, etc. negotiations contracts • Online survey of sustainability issues (TenP of Global Compact Network Italy Foundation) BANKS • Invitations to participate in deals • Meetings to present projects and their • Partnerships for the guarantees • Communication and presentation of project details related to the Makkah Metro data • Negotiation of terms and prices (KSA) tender; partnership for the negotiation of the credit letter for the Navi Mumbai India project; partnership for the project financing related to the construction of line 4 of the Milan metro. • Lima financial closing with securitisation of the bond loan of USB 1.2 billion (PFI premium) INVESTORS / FINANCIAL • Roadshows • Roadshows ANALYSTS • Conferences • Conferences • Video conferences • Video conferences ITALIAN AND EU PUBLIC • Institutional communications (internet news, • Consultations about potential • J oint research projects INSTITUTIONS press releases, etc.) partnerships for research projects LOCAL AUTHORITIES/ • Regular institutional communications • Charity day PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION LOCAL COMMUNITIES • Reports on the progress of projects to the local • Participation in local stakeholder •P  articipation in programmes to community (together with the local institutions) committees develop local communities • Customer satisfaction of rail users TRADE ASSOCIATIONS • Institutional communications (internet news, • Consultations about potential • J oint research projects press releases, etc.) partnerships for research projects MEDIUM • Regular institutional communications • Consultations for more details of specific issues DIGITAL USERS / SOCIAL • Regular institutional communications • Ongoing communications and regular • Partnerships with social NETWORK updates of the website networks to develop web communications and relations 56 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report In 2015, the main engagement activities with the various categories of stakeholders were: • the materiality analysis; • customer satisfaction surveys; • personnel involvement initiatives carried out through different projects: – “Knowledge Owners” programme to select and develop talent – “360° for executives”, an assessment of each executive by a group of their peers • external relations activities • investor relations activities • research projects with Italian and EU institutions • agreements and partnerships with universities Involvement of local communities: social and environmental impacts Ansaldo STS’s active role varies depending on the of the work after assessments have been made of its type of project and part played in handling relations impact on the environment, the society and health and with local communities, be they municipal authorities, safety. In this case, Ansaldo STS studies and presents associations of residents, users of metros and trains, the best possible solutions. companies or local labour. Ansaldo STS is actively involved in programmes to It complies with the site environmental management communicate and interact with the communities procedures for the environmental aspects of its affected by its works in various ways: projects, starting with an initial analysis of the works • it participates in committees that represent local planned, discussed and agreed with the subcontractors stakeholders; as well. The next stage is preparation of a monitoring • it promotes communication between the local plan to ensure ongoing compliance with the law and authorities and citizens; to adopt all available opportunities to limit the impact • it engages in direct communication; of setting up a work site. Sometimes, the customer • it takes part in programmes to develop local (public sector body) defines specific characteristics communities. 57 Sustainability governance | Stakeholder engagement HONOLULU METRO The Honolulu metro is a US$1.4 billion contract, the largest ever to be performed in Hawaii. It will have a positive effect on the local environment and society as Honolulu is the second most congested US city after Los Angeles. The metro will change the style and quality of life of Honolulu’s residents who take an average of two to three hours a day to travel to work. Passenger transport will be rolled out in 2019 creating employment for 300 local workers. Communication and involvement Sustainability Communication and involvement of the local community The Ansaldo Honolulu website of the state community As part of the tender qualifications, has been recently improved with In June 2015, a delegation from Ansaldo Honolulu (the general the inclusion of a section on Ansaldo STS and Ansaldo Honolulu contractor led by Ansaldo STS of sustainability, to highlight the met with members of the US which Hitachi Rail Italy S.p.A. is company’s focus on occupational Congress in Washington DC for the a partner) developed a special health and safety and environmental second year in a row as part of the communication plan to keep protection, in accordance with US “Hawaii on the Hill” programme the local community up-to-date federal and State of Hawaii local and organised with the support of the with the project. Moreover, since international regulations, and in line Chamber of Commerce of the State 2012, it has coordinated the with Ansaldo STS’s model. of Hawaii. communication activities with the community in collaboration with The meetings with congress the contractor. The population’s Development programmes for the members and federal office perception of the works’ local community directors covered transport, the progress is monitored closely Ansaldo Honolulu, Honolulu employment market and business and the company is committed Authority for Rapid Transportation relationships with Hawaii, the rest to supporting the customer in its (HART) and the Office of Continuing of the United States and Asia. communications. Education and Workforce Development (OCEWD), part of Ansaldo Honolulu is a member Leeward Community College, have The Honolulu train of Move Oahu Forward, a local worked together since 2011 to Delivery of the first Honolulu train cars stakeholder committee whose provide training and enable the is expected in May 2016. mission is to promote initiatives hiring of 300 employees to carry that improve mobility and the out operations & maintenance quality of life, to contribute to activities for the metro. In developing the economy and future November 2015, Ansaldo Honolulu growth, safeguarding the island’s participated in a workshop unique ambience and lifestyle. This with all the representatives of committee is convinced that the the State of Hawaii education Honolulu metro project is a step in sector (high schools, community this direction. colleges, universities) to discuss the educational path for the next Ansaldo Honolulu has set up generations of Hawaii residents a website to update the local to enable them to benefit from population and authorities metro-related business http://www.ansaldohonolulurail.com/ opportunities. During the year, it has also participated in many jobs fairs in the State of Hawaii. 58 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report LIMA METRO Lines 2 and 4 of the Lima metro is a project worth US$ 5.658 billion and is one of the greatest works of Peru in terms of both high engineering and required technology. Line 2 covers 35 km of underground Communication and citizen Development programmes for the tunnel (27 km for line 2 and 8 km for participation local community line 4), for a total of 35 stations and 2 The Line 2 Lima metro Consortium, of Throughout the laboratories. Total journey time is 45 which Ansaldo STS is a member, hired construction, the minutes, a saving of approximately 90 a local company to implement a social project will create minutes daily. and communication management approximately 300 programme which includes: direct and 8,000 Lima will benefit from efficient and • management of relationships with indirect jobs. Furthermore, more than 2 sustainable transport which will the community directly affected by million people will be directly influenced contribute to stimulating economic the construction (project’s area of and will benefit from: and social development and resolving influence); • more jobs during the construction and traffic congestion. • full communication: in the area operation stages directly affected, with the public, • travel safety The new line features a sophisticated the authorities and the social • reduced journey time driverless train system and will serve networks. As part of this project, a • increased productivity over 600,000 passengers per day. website was created which provides • more time with the family updates on the construction of • more customers for companies, once Its construction saw the participation line 2 https://www.facebook.com/ the metro is fully operational of leading international design, linea2metrolima?fref=ts • better safety construction and management • social indicator monitoring; • increased value for the entire district. companies. Ansaldo STS is part of this • social risk surveillance and group and contributed its experience in prevention, crisis management and railway technology and equipment. immediate reply. COPENHAGEN METRO – O&M and Cityringen project This project consisted of building the metro (completed in 2010), for which Ansaldo STS was assigned the operations & maintenance component (until 2018), and construction of the new Cityringen, a 15.5 km driverless metro system with 17 stations and a surface maintenance centre. It will transport up to 240,000 passengers 24/7 starting from 2018. The customer, Metroselskabet, analysed the economic-social, environmental and health and safety impacts before defining the metro’s specific characteristics. Ansaldo STS was able to satisfy its requests thanks to its design and technological expertise and its capacity to reduce environmental impact and guarantee safety. Involvement of the local Ansaldo STS participates in the the head of the local police and the community following initiatives organised by Danish emergency management Local community involvement is Metroselskabet: agency (Beredskabstyrelsen). regulated by the contract. Ansaldo • monthly meetings with a The committee is in charge of all STS has appointed a PR manager work group comprised of the issues related to evacuations, who participates in meetings to customer, other contractors first aid and other emergency coordinate communications with (CMT, Salini), employers and management problems both with the employer, organises work site trade unions. The group’s respect to the metro’s operation visits by citizens and updates key objective is to prevent and construction of the Cityringen. the information used to for and monitor all complaints Its members discuss and agree communication, especially on the or disputes about labour on principles and procedures web site. conditions; to ensure very high safety • the MSURR committee, a group levels based on documented consisting of first aid personnel, descriptions. 59 Sustainability governance | Stakeholder engagement Development programmes for the A royal smiley local community The Danish authority for working A “gentlemen’s agreement” provides selection of the awardees was the environment assigned the Ansaldo for the hiring of local labour (more high level of control and customer STS team the highest score in the than 200 employees) with incentives satisfaction. assessment of health and safety for additional hires. compliance: a royal smiley. Since the metro was rolled out Customer satisfaction in 2002, customer satisfaction The authority uses smiley to Ansaldo STS was awarded the with Metroselskabet has been assess companies’ compliance contract to operate and maintain carefully monitored through surveys with applicable provisions. The the Copenhagen Metro until the conducted by an independent assessments are posted on the end of 2018. This contract was entity. However, only after the M1 website to enable the public to agreed in January 2010 following and M2 lines were completed, monitor a company’s performance. a European tender. The contract were customer satisfaction Health and safety assessments remuneration is indexed to service results included in the contractual comprise four levels: red, yellow, availability, punctuality and the agreements. Metroselskabet and green and royal smileys. The results of customer satisfaction Ansaldo STS continue to analyse latter reflects the top level, for surveys. Customer satisfaction is and report on the survey results, companies that have obtained an indeed of vital importance to the which are published quarterly. officially-recognised health and Metro, both in terms of maintaining safety certificate confirming the existing customers and attracting In 2015, passengers numbered extraordinary efforts made and the new ones. Accordingly, the Danish roughly 57.2 million. Surveys results achieved to ensure a high customer, Metroselskabet, and were performed on a sample of level of compliance. Ansaldo STS devote considerable approximately 5,000 users and attention to customer feedback. their satisfaction is regularly The target was achieved thanks to Various tools are used to monitored in accordance with the the involvement and the support understand Danish metro following aspects: Satisfaction of the entire project team from passengers’ needs and with the journey, Cleanliness of the beginning of the project in expectations. They include quarterly the stations, Cleanliness of the 2012. During this period of time, customer satisfaction surveys. trains, Timeliness, Service quality, Ansaldo STS’s HSE management Updating of information and Safety. department worked hard to meet In 2012, for the third year in a all requirements and confirm row, the Copenhagen Metro was Each of these performance factors compliance with the highest named the world’s best automated is directly assessed by passengers environmental, health and safety metro. This award was given at the and then compared with specific, standards of the Cityringen project. Metrorail conference of leading predefined targets. The summarised experts in metro systems around results of the 2015 survey are the world. A key element in the given below. 100% 96% 92% 91% 93% 86% 81% 80% 76% 60% 40% 20% 16% 10% 12% 7% 7% 8% 4% 5% 3% 6% 3% 2% 2% 1% 0% Satisfied Cleaning Cleaning Timetable Personnel Updated Feeling this trip stations trains reliability service information secure Satisfied/very satisfied Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied Dissatisfied/very dissatisfied 60 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Sustainability programme Ansaldo STS draws up a sustainability programme each reports of its commitments, surveys on the quality of year, made up of the objectives to be targeted to ensure its engagement with stakeholders and the aspects that the ongoing improvement of its performance using annual emerged from the materiality analysis as a base. INNOVATION AND THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS •C  ompact peripheral stations: implementation of third-generation bodies which generate savings of approximately 40% and 2016 introduce an innovation from a functional point of view. •S  mart-mobility and energy efficiency: application of the results of the research projects completed in 2015, specifically in relation to eco-driving algorithms and the completion of tests of super capacitors. 2016 • Participation in Shift2Rail calls with additional proposals, progress of the projects underway and finalisation of those to be 2016 completed by 2016. •D  evelopment of railway signalling systems which use satellites for train detection and communications 2016 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND QUALITY IMPROVEMENT •C  ustomer satisfaction: increase customer surveys on 2015 (15 surveys) 2016 •E  xtend the scope of application of the IRIS International Railway Industry Standard – certification to the design and 2016 development activities of the Riom site •E  xtend ISO 9001 certification to the Lima site 2016 •C  omplete the integration of the documentation included in the CMMI (Capability Maturity Model, Integration) baseline in the 2016 Integrated Management System HUMAN RESOURCES • Improve recruiting activities through employer branding campaigns based on social networks 2016 •C  onsolidate the “Talent” project with Knowledge Owners and possibly extend it to other key parties 2016 • Improve personnel travel management 2016 • Implement measures to retain the company’s key skills 2016 • Include protected worker categories 2016 •C  onsider the possibility of testing smart working schemes 2016 ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY • WORKERS’ SAFETY 2016 Reduce the injury frequency and seriousness indicators at production sites by 10% Reduce the injury frequency and seriousness indicators at offices by 10% • ENERGY 2016 Reduce the energy intensity performance indicator of buildings/offices by 5% [GJ/m2] Reduce the energy intensity performance indicator of buildings/production sites by 1% [GJ/m2] Increase the percentage of electrical energy obtained from renewable sources by 5% • GREENHOUSE GASES 2016 Reduce the GHG emission intensity indicator by 10% [tCO2e/€million turnover] • WASTE 2016 Reduce the kilos of waste per hour worked at production sites by 5% Reduce the kilos of waste per hour worked at offices by 5% Increase the percentage of recycled waste at production sites by 10% Increase the percentage of recycled waste at offices by 10% SUPPLY CHAIN •C  reate global commodities that will increase the specialisation in certain technologies and will generate a global vision of the supplier base, with the possibility of improving the effects of sustainability 2016-17 • Continue the TenP project on suppliers’ sustainability, analysing the output of the online survey on respect for human rights, work conditions, the environment and fight against corruption. 2016 • Extend the tests commenced in France for the automated preparation and sending of supplier rating reports to Italy 2016 • Approve the general conditions for purchasing goods and services in Italy with inclusion of sanctions clauses for noncompliance with the code of ethics 2016 • Continue the standardisation of the supply contract general conditions in Ansaldo STS’s various legal entities 2016 THE MEDIA AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATIONS • Re-launch of “The Ansaldo STS forest never stops growing” campaign as part of the publication of the 2015 Sustainability Report 2016 • Develop accurate videos and communication on sustainability and social innovation. Some events have already been scheduled, including forums and specific initiatives. 2016 • Internal training and development of the social innovation and sustainability culture to facilitate the understanding of the 2016 commitments taken on and the activities developed at group level. COMMUNITY • UNIVERSITIES 2016 As part of the “knowledge owners” talent management project, new agreements will be signed with specific departments of Italian, French, US and Australian universities to support the company’s most technically talented resources • ITALIAN AND EUROPEAN INSTITUTIONS 2016 Continue with the Italian and European research projects that are underway, in collaboration with universities and research bodies, to increase safety and environmental compatibility and apply for funding by coordinating new project proposals. With respect to the STARS satellite project, Ansaldo STS will continue its collaboration with UNIFE and the main GNSS research Organizations. Furthermore, Ansaldo STS will actively participate in the preparation of the pilot project for the Cagliari – San Gavino Sardinia line and the related technical/business proposal requested by RFI and Trenitalia. • TRADE ASSOCIATIONS 2016 Continue to play an active role in trade associations and, in particular, take initiative as part of the UNIFE sustainability committee. 61 Sustainability governance | Sustainability programme Reporting on commitments Target achieved Target partially achieved Target postponed IN 2014 WE SAID IN 2015 WE DID INNOVATION • Compact hardware by roughly 35%-40%. • The planned solution was implemented to compact the central post electronics for interlocking, ERTMS wayside application, etc.. Specifically, the solution developed for the Roy Hill project applies both the Radio Block Center and interlocking on the same machine, reducing dimensions and energy consumption by at least 40%. STRATEGY QUALITY AND IMPROVEMENT •E  xtend IFIS (International Railway Industry Standard) • IFIS (International Railway Industry Standard) certification to certification to the Les Ulis, Pittsburgh and Beijing sites the Les Ulis, Pittsburgh and Beijing sites extended • ISO 9001 certification to the Riyadh, Ankara and Zaragoza • ISO 9001 certification to the Riyadh, Ankara and Zaragoza sites extended sites extended • Include the documentation in the CMMI (Capability Maturity • T he inclusion of the documentation in the baseline CMMI Model, Integration) baseline in the Integrated Management (Capability Maturity Model, Integration) in the Integrated System (IMS) Management System is almost completed COMPLIANCE & ETHICS • Include the new predicate crime of self-laundering in the • T he risk assessment for the predicate crime of selfOrganizational, management and control model as per laundering was carried out in 2015. The Model was updated Legislative decree no. 231/01 in February 2016 to include such crime and other regulatory changes pertaining to 2015. HUMAN RESOURCES •C  omplete the Knowledge Owners programme, concluding the • In accordance with the Technical committee’s decision, the first stage of training and development Knowledge Owner programme will last two years instead of one. Consequently, the project is continuing in accordance with plans and is expected to be completed in spring 2016. •U  pdating of the relevant professional families was •C  omplete the update of the Global Job System model completed, communicated and implemented. •C  ontinue to use Linkedin by creating an integrated work • L inkedin remains extremely successful in terms of group that can best exploit this tool’s potential recruitment, including thanks to the regular publication of articles about HR activities by the LinkedIn Narrative Team. THE ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY • Further reduce the number of accidents at work • T he number of injuries, with a number of days of temporary incapacity of more than three days, decreased from seven to five. Only one accident took place at the three production sites. •A  dopt a web-based software programme to improve • Ansaldo STS joined the Hitachi group, its new majority management and monitoring of environmental and safety shareholder, in 2015, and this will entail the adoption of a requirements group software solution. For this strategic reason, this target was postponed. • Increase the hours of training provided about the • After the 10% increase in health and safety training hours environment, health and safety, especially for issues in 2014, a training campaign was launched in 2015 which affecting the worksites involved (and will involve in 2016) all Safety officers (Site managers, Branch managers and Office managers), all worksite employees exposed to the electricity risk (CEI 1127 – 50110) and all appointed worksite employees. •P ittsburgh site: continue the PITTSBURGH 2030 DISTRICT • In 2015, EE consumption at the Pittsburgh site decreased by project by implementing the monitoring stage to reduce 12%, while the use of water from the aqueduct was reduced by energy and water use and the production of CO2 45%. Furthermore, it reduced the distance in km of short-haul and long-haul flights by 36% and 10%, respectively. In 2016, it launched a specific campaign on environmental and health and safety issues training. 62 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report IN 2014 WE SAID IN 2015 WE DID SUPPLY CHAIN •A  nalyse the TenP project’s output on supplier sustainability • Ansaldo STS selected a specific number of suppliers and define an action plan to improve sustainability and invited them to participate in an online survey on sustainability issues, including, in particular: respect for human rights, work conditions, the environment and the fight against corruption. They will be invited again to analyse outputs and define an action plan to improve sustainability •E  xtend the tests commenced in France for the automated • This activity was postponed due to the implementation of preparation and sending of supplier rating reports to Italy Ansaldo STS’ s new Organizational structure •R  evise and publish the general conditions for purchasing • T he text and the guidelines are ready for final approval and goods and services in Italy with inclusion of sanctions subsequent issue clauses for non-compliance with the code of ethics •S  tandardise the supply contract general conditions after • T he standardisation of the supply contract general conditions assessing the current contracts in use by Ansaldo STS’s has begun and will continue in 2016. legal entities and best international practices THE MEDIA AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMUNICATIONS •P  repare the content of the sustainability communication • “ The Ansaldo STS forest never stops growing: download the plan with new projects when the 2014 report is published or 2014 sustainability report and plant your own tree” campaign afterwards was launched and promoted by external and internal communication, including social media and through updates on the company’s intranet. Furthermore, a video message was prepared and sent to employees and published on Ansaldo STS’s website. In this video message the CEO explained Ansaldo STS’s vision of sustainability and social innovation. Also in 2015, the company supported the Global Compact Network Italy Foundation, of which it is a founding member. •D  evelop and reorganise the digital communication tools, the • In 2015, much time and energy was invested in company’s presence on the internet and dialogue with digital strengthening digital communication by expanding the stakeholders channels available to stakeholders, while synchronising them. Today, all major information is posted in real time on the main social networks. •D  efine and prepare a new plan to develop relations with • Ansaldo STS’s communication has always been aimed at foreign and Italian media advertising its skills in the relevant business segment, regularly reporting results and commitments and describing technological developments and innovation. Accordingly, Ansaldo STS remained focused on its targets including with respect to media communication. COMMUNITY •U  NIVERSITIES: continue contributing to specialised training • The contribution to specialised training in the sector in the sector by collaborating with leading Italian and foreign continued by collaborating with leading Italian and foreign universities and contributing scientifically to post-graduate universities and contributing scientifically to post-graduate master programmes master programmes • ITALIAN AND EUROPEAN INSTITUTIONS: continue with the • Stage 2 of the 3InSat project was carried out as part of Italian and European research projects that are underway to satellite projects. This included the performance of nonincrease safety, security and environmental compatibility and intrusiveness analyses to obtain the authorisation to install apply for funding by coordinating new project proposals platforms and perform functional and performance tests at the Sardinia Trial Site. Furthermore, functional tests were carried out successfully, covering 6500 km. Finally, the characterisation gauges of the GNSS signal for the ERSATEAV project were also carried out during the year. • TRADE ASSOCIATIONS: continue to play an active role in • With respect to satellite positioning, Ansaldo STS continued trade associations and, in particular, take initiative as part to coordinate the NGTC WP 7 project, contributing the of the UNIFE sustainability committee quantitative analysis of the tolerable hazard rate assigned to the virtual balise reader 63 Sustainability governance | Ethics and integrity Ethics and integrity Considering its history and vocation, the Ansaldo STS Group has always based its business development on the creation of safe, efficient, reliable and environmentally-friendly railway and metro transport systems and solutions, placing its full focus on the people these systems and solutions serve, who live in increasingly complex contexts with increasingly complex lifestyles. Code of ethics The code of ethics clarifies the commitments and two reports from some local managers concerning responsibilities that should guide the company’s alleged bullying and harassment. These issues were business and activities, requiring compliance by anyone managed by the human resources department. involved in any way with Ansaldo STS. Training on the code of ethics The code of ethics is available on the company’s web Ansaldo STS relentlessly promotes and fosters site11. It is a key element of the internal control system, awareness of the code of ethics and the related protocols and compliance with it enables Ansaldo STS and the and updates, as well as knowledge of the areas of group companies to prevent certain irregularities or illegal activities in the various functions with responsibilities, acts prohibited by the regulations of the various countries hierarchical relationships, duties and training. It informs where Ansaldo STS operates, particularly Legislative employees on the code of ethics and the related decree no. 231/01 in Italy. protocols first by distributing specific documentation to all employees and workers collaborating with the company in The code of ethics was formally adopted for the group any way, and requires, when the material is delivered, that companies by resolution of the respective boards of they sign a statement certifying that they have read the directors or equivalent management bodies. It was documentation received. shared with all group personnel using the same methods as those applied by the parent Ansaldo STS. In addition, company personnel can, at any time, ask supervisors for guidance and clarifications on the content In addition, a code of ethics control body was set of the code of ethics, protocols and duties assigned to up within each group company to promote the them. When new employees are hired and/or contracted, implementation of the code of ethics. A special Ansaldo STS immediately gives them the information information channel for the code of ethics was also necessary for adequate knowledge of the code of ethics created, and can be used to report any conduct that is and protocols, with particular respect to those that inconsistent with the principles of the code of ethics by concern them specifically. sending an email. The reports are sent and managed in accordance with a group procedure. 2015 events In 2015, the code of ethics control body received reports of violations of the code related to Ansaldo STS Australia and Ansaldo STS USA. With respect to the three violation reports concerning Ansaldo STS Australia, no violations were ascertained. The control body also received two requests for interpretation of the code of ethics. The code of ethics control body of Ansaldo STS USA received 11. http://www.ansaldo-sts.com/sites/ansaldosts.message-asp.com/files/downloadspage/asts_cod_etico_italiano.pdf 64 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Global Compact Child labour Once again this year, Ansaldo STS has Ansaldo STS does not allow and does not tolerate adhered to Global Compact, a voluntary employment situations that violate current regulations United Nations initiative to encourage on child labour, women’s labour and immigration. This respect for human rights, labour, the also applies to its external contractors, suppliers and environment and anti-corruption set business partners. out in 10 principles. Its confirmation reiterates its commitment to considering Global Compact and its Forced labour main principles an integral part of the company’s Ansaldo STS carefully monitors the risk of forced labour. strategies and culture. In addition, the company requires its contractors and sub-contractors to guarantee the same in order to HUMAN RIGHTS12 contribute to the abolition of such illegal practices. Ansaldo STS upholds and promotes human rights in every context in which it operates, by creating equal ENVIRONMENT14 opportunities for its people and fair treatment for all Protecting the environment is part of Ansaldo STS’s social regardless of race, nationality, political creed, religion, responsibility. This is a key element in its business strategy, gender, age, minority status, disability, sexual orientation, with the aim of promoting long-term growth in the company’s personal or social condition – and always respecting the value. The optimisation and development of its processes dignity of each individual and each employee (code of and Organizational structure are central to this strategy: the ethics). aim is to produce in the safest possible way, using the least possible quantity of resources. LABOUR13 Ansaldo STS offers equal opportunities, ensuring fair Integrated management system treatment on the basis of individual expertise and Ansaldo STS has implemented an integrated abilities and hiring people under legal employment management system (“IMS”) for the environment, contracts, mainly on an open-ended basis, in accordance safety and quality, which integrates all group with laws, national labour agreements, company processes in one single complete structure, enabling agreements and current regulations. the Organization to operate as a single unit with shared objectives. Over the course of employment, training is a crucial lever to make the most of human resources and update their At central level, global policies and procedures have skills to the market context, thereby expanding upon been established to ensure controlled management the abilities and knowledge of each employee, in line of processes and activities relating to safety in with the company’s values. Ansaldo STS also applies a the workplace and environmental protection. On policy based on the recognition of one’s merits and equal this basis, and where there are specific legislative opportunities. Ansaldo STS’s internationalisation process requirements, each legal entity has established has also consolidated work experience abroad, thereby local guidelines to ensure compliance with the enabling people to share their different experiences and requirements applicable to its processes. foster the value of multiculturalism. All company bodies are required to closely comply Ansaldo STS guarantees that its workers are free to join with the principles of the environmental management trade unions, and sees that its relationships with the system, and they are actively involved in preparing unions are cooperative and friendly in which workers may and updating it. Ansaldo STS is currently completing report their opinions to Human Resources directly or via the certification process for its sites under UNI EN delegates. ISO 14001 and OSHAS 18001 standards. 12. A  nsaldo STS acts in accordance with the UN’s International Bill of Human Rights (which includes the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), the ILO’s Fundamental Conventions (nos. 29, 87, 98, 100, 105, 111, 138 and 182), the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the UN’s Convention on the Rights of the Child, the ILO’s Conventions nos. 107 and 169 on the Rights of Indigenous and Tribal Peoples, the European Convention on Human Rights and the OECD’s guidelines for multinational enterprises. 13. See: Human resources. 14. See the section on Environment, health and safety. 65 Sustainability governance | Ethics and integrity Development and extension of environmentallyfriendly technologies the disciplinary sanction provided for by the Model, Ansaldo STS is constantly committed to providing its which also includes dismissal without notice. customers and end users (passengers and freight) with the best and safest products, using the best The main risk areas, including direct risks and the design methodologies and procedures and the best areas that could potentially facilitate acts of corruption, existing building methods and processes, in line with subject to the requirements of the Model, are mainly its commitment to reduce energy consumption and its the sales area, contract management, procurement, direct and indirect impact on the environment. sites, administration, finance and control, HR and soft loans. Ansaldo STS also promotes technological and managerial training through partnerships with In order to ensure that all employees are completely universities, specifically in terms of information familiar with the Model, they receive reports when communication technology, sustainability and the it is updated. In addition, a new e-learning training health and safety of transportation systems. programme was carried out in 2014 for nearly all company employees. Employees working in the areas The Group actively participates in research projects at risk of these crimes being committed, along with the co-financed by Italian and EU institutions on how company’s managers and junior managers sign periodic to improve safety, energy efficiency, environmental statements of compliance with the Model and, where impact, sustainable mobility and the interoperability applicable, statements describing the most significant of transport systems. relationships with customers and representatives of the public administration. ANTI-CORRUPTION AND THE PREVENTION OF CORPORATE CRIMES GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK ITALY FOUNDATION Ansaldo STS has adopted the Organizational, Global Compact Network Italy (GCNI) was founded in management and control model (the “Model”) pursuant 2002 to contribute to the development of the “Global to Legislative decree no. 231/2001, which deals with, Pact” in Italy. In June 2013, the GCNI created the Global inter alia, corruption against the public administration Compact Network Italy Foundation, with Ansaldo and in the private sector. The Model has been adopted STS as founding member and sponsor, along with 17 in the Group’s pre-existing Italian companies (which other Organizations, private companies, universities merged into the parent in 2009) since the introduction and research institutes, non-profit foundations and civil of Legislative decree no. 231/2001. society Organizations. Ansaldo STS S.p.A.’s employees are required to comply The Global Compact Network Italy Foundation with the Model and the procedures, which specify the participated, together with the CSR Manager Network operating methods of the various company processes. and Fondazione Sodalitas, in the public consultation These procedures relate, in particular, to the following: on the implementation of directive 2014/95/EU of the • advisors and sales representatives; European Parliament and Council of 22 October 2014, • sponsorships, publicity campaigns and contributions implementing directive 2013/34/EU in respect of the to associations and bodies; disclosure of non-financial information and information • conferral of advisory engagements and professional on diversity by some companies and large-size groups. services; The joint contribution15, the content of which is approved • gifts, hospitality, facilitating payments and by Ansaldo STS, was sent to the Office IV – Division IV of entertainment expenses; the Treasury Department of the Ministry of the Economy • M&As (mergers and acquisitions). and Finance. These procedures have been adopted in line with the CSR MANAGER NETWORK former parent Finmeccanica’s initiatives to strengthen Through Andrea Razeto – External Communications, the internal control system, concerning, in particular, Ansaldo STS participates in the CSR Manager Network, corruption and corporate crimes. Several audits were the national association that groups the professionals of performed to check their actual implementation. In the the main Italian companies committed to sustainability event of acts of corruption (which has never occurred issues. The association is a place to discuss Italian in the Group so far), Ansaldo STS would respond with and foreign best practices and acts as a representative 15. http://www.globalcompactnetwork.org/it/news-e-eventi/notizie/1231-la-fondazione-gcni-partecipa-alla-consultazione-pubblica-sull-attuazione-delladirettiva-2014-95-ue.html 66 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report body and communicates with the world of politics, business associations, trade unions, environmental associations and other NGOs. It also promotes and tests sustainability and actively participates in national and international discussions. It is the Italian network hub for similar associations that are being set up around the world. The CSR Network is Italy’s official representative in the Global Network of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). Principles of the Global Compact Ansaldo STS HUMAN RIGHTS 1. S upport and respect internationally proclaimed human • • Code of ethics and training Declaration of respect for human rights rights within the company’s respective spheres of • Personnel management policy influence • Fair remuneration • Company climate and improvement measures 2. Ensure that they are not complicit in human rights • Internationalisation and multi-cultural management abuses, even indirectly • Worker health and safety policy • Product liability and safety • Ethical control of the supply chain LABOUR 3. U phold workers’ freedom of association and the effective • Code of ethics and training recognition of their right to collective bargaining • Labour policy declaration • Remuneration and incentives 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour • • Fair remuneration People Care – Employee initiatives • Personnel management, recruitment and hiring policy 5. Effectively abolish of child labour • Training and development • Trade unions 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and • • Company climate and improvement measures Ethical control of the supply chain occupation ENVIRONMENT 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental • • Environmental policy and management system Environmental certification and registration challenges • EHS training • Taking a prudent approach 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental • Carbon management system (Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions responsibility measurement) • Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of • Measurement and control of environmental impact (energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, water resources and waste) environmentally friendly technologies • Commitment to improve performance • Product innovation to reduce environmental impact • Italian and EU research projects for railway transportation safety and to reduce its environmental impact ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Combat corruption in all its forms, including extortion •C  ode of ethics and training • Organizational, management and control model pursuant to Legislative and bribery decree no. 231/2001 • Procedural system applied by all Ansaldo STS companies 67 Sustainability governance | Local corporate social responsibility Local corporate social responsibility The following table groups and classifies the main corporate social responsibility initiatives carried out locally by Ansaldo STS France, US and Australia. PRODUCT/PROCESS ENVIRONMENTAL HUMAN RESOURCES AND COMPANY STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-CORRUPTION HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS CLIMATE CHANGE WELFARE DEVELOPMENT FOCUS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES INNOVATION COUNTRY DEPARTMENT INITIATIVE Implementation of the annual personnel training plan FRANCE (personal development, skill improvement, foreign SWEDEN SPAIN HR languages, technologies, etc.) and enhancement and acknowledgement of experience ✓ FRANCE HR Signing of the “Respect at work” charter ✓ ✓ Implementation of the employees’ welfare training FRANCE SWEDEN HR programme: controlling stress, conflict management, assertiveness,... ✓ ✓ FRANCE Contributions to associations. SWEDEN • Preventing sexual abuse UNICEF, Active school, Sweeden • Encouraging and promoting the careers of women: Elles HR Bougent http://www.ellesbougent.com/ • Access to the study for less advantaged students: ✓✓ Passeport Avenir http://www.passeport-avenir.com/ Partnerships with local nurseries for employees’ FRANCE HR babies ✓✓ FRANCE Development of a collaboration with secondary schools SWEDEN HR and through forums (information and selection) ✓✓ GHG annual report (in accordance with French FRANCE HSE legislation) and Energy audit (at the Les Ulis site) ✓✓✓ FRANCE FACILITIES Contribution to the Les Ulis transport plan ✓ ✓ Energy savings: replacement of LED light bulbs at all FRANCE FACILITIES the premises of the Riom and Les Ulis sites ✓✓ New multi-beam HBD production (produced at the FRANCE SALES Riom site) ✓ FRANCE EXT. SWEDEN SPAIN COMMUNICATION Ansaldo STS Charity Day in favour of Unicef ✓ Training about health, safety and the environment, in order to increase the awareness of all Ansaldo STS SPAIN H&S / HR Spain’s employees, subcontractors and workers of the Ansaldo STS-Inabensa partnership ✓ ✓ All Ansaldo STS Spain’s employees benefit from a SPAIN HR medical insurance scheme paid by the company ✓ Ansaldo STS Spain signed cooperation master agreements with the most prestigious Universities SPAIN HR of Madrid and another autonomous Spanish region, to offer internship programmes to university students near ✓ graduation SPAIN HR Ansaldo STS Spain hired two people with disabilities ✓ ✓ Improvement of work stations in relation to specific issues SPAIN H&S / HR of employees’ health (special seats for the back, ergonomic footrests, portable humidifiers, etc.) ✓ 68 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report PRODUCT/PROCESS ENVIRONMENTAL HUMAN RESOURCES AND COMPANY STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS ANTI-CORRUPTION HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS CLIMATE CHANGE WELFARE DEVELOPMENT FOCUS ON LOCAL COMMUNITIES INNOVATION COUNTRY DEPARTMENT INITIATIVE Psychosocial risk assessment to identify and resolve SPAIN H&S / HR possible harassment issues ✓ ✓ Actions for the preliminary improvement of structures SPAIN H&S and work methodologies to ensure personal safety ✓ Installation of LED lights and light switches for smaller SPAIN FACILITIES areas at Ansaldo STS Spain offices and the common areas of the various buildings ✓ Improvement to the treatment of waste generated SPAIN FACILITIES in offices and other workplaces (plastic, oil, metals, electronic equipment, cables, paper, etc.) ✓ Selection of local professionals to work at various SPAIN PROCUREMENT sites ✓ Blood donation: the central blood bank visits the US HR Pittsburgh site four times a year for voluntary blood donations from employees ✓ ✓ Angel Giving Tree: employees’ charity initiative in favour of US HR 150 children in need in the area (Christmas presents) ✓ Financing RSSI Railway Systems Suppliers Inc. US HR scholarship programme. The scholarship amounts to USD2,000 per year up to four years in a row. ✓ Health and well-being initiatives. Every month employees are invited to a well-being initiative to US HR promote healthy lifestyles and, in some cases, help those in need ✓ Charity Day the proceeds were donated to the Red US HR Cross of South Carolina ✓ Other charitable donations. Every year, Ansaldo STS’s US HR employees collect non-perishable food for the Greater Pittsburgh Area Food Bank. ✓ Health and well-being programme. In 2015, Ansaldo STS AUSTRALIA HSE Australia launched a series of lessons held by a consultant to promote well-being at work ✓ ✓✓ Employees’ awards and bonuses. Ansaldo STS Australia rewards its employees for their commitment and loyalty AUSTRALIA HR during the annual Night of Stars loyalty awards. In 2015, 36 employees were awarded with two additional days-off ✓✓ paid. Vaccination. In 2015, anti-flu vaccines were offered free AUSTRALIA HR of charge (146 employees were vaccinated). ✓✓ The employees’ assistance plan continued to provide all AUSTRALIA HR employees and their family members with free access to consultancies. ✓✓ Private health care. Company prices were renegotiated with the partners of the private health care fund, offering AUSTRALIA HR Ansaldo STS Australia’s employees access to exclusive offers and competitive tariffs ✓✓ 69 INNOVATION Innovation governance 72 Main products conceived and undergoing development 72 Product and solution safety and reliability 75 Energy efficiency and respect for the environment 76 Investment in innovation and intellectual property 79 Ansaldo STS has always devoted ongoing attention to research and development, in order to identify and create innovative technical solutions and develop products of the very highest quality, safety and environmental standards. 70 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report € 36.9 million (+11.8%) invested in R&D directly allocated to profit 77 authorised family patents or loss 13 patents under evaluation Leadership in ERTMS satellite WTIMS – Real time technologies monitoring system of infrastructure and rolling stock TCCSTM – Train Conformity Check System the multifunctional portal for the automated identification of Safety and reliability of defects on moving trains products, applications and systems. Top level (SIL4) for critical applications Innovation and ECO-DESIGN Reuse and technology for energy reciclability of materials efficiency and reduced Compliance with the consumption of raw REACH regulation Life materials Cycle Assessment 71 Innovation | Main products conceived and undergoing development Innovation governance Ansaldo STS’s innovation governance model RAMS involves all its companies and combines strategies, Technical Tools technologies, products, resources and markets so that research and development arises out of Portfolio Management the excellent, distinctive expertise found within Generic Specific the company and the real needs of its customers. Innovation Research Generic product application application Ansaldo STS’s Organizational structure ensures internal factors and external assessments are Innovation Development Engineering C.C. systematically integrated. Main products conceived and undergoing development Over the years, Ansaldo STS has conceived and ATC (Automatic Train Control) and ATP developed products and solutions that have pushed it (Automatic Train Protection) systems to a leadership position in the Signalling Systems and These are automatic train speed control systems in line Railway and Mass Transit Sectors. with ERTMS (European Rail Traffic Management System) standards. They enable operators to control the safe OTP® Optimizing Traffic Planner® movement of trains on railway lines, while continuously OTP is an innovative traffic management and railway monitoring their position, maintaining safe distances handling system that redirects traffic in real time and compliance with speed limits. The ATC system also to increase speed and optimise vehicle movement, includes a driverless function with various degrees of identifying the shortest and most efficient paths for automation. trains. The OTP system can substantially increase network capacity, reducing operating costs at the same time. 72 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report CBTC – Communication-Based Train Control Wayside platform CBTC is a two-way, radio-based train distancing Ansaldo STS has implemented the interlocking platform communications system between wayside and known as WSP (Wayside Standard Platform), capable of vehicle. It is in line with international standards (IEEE managing a greater number of trackside equipment using 1474.1.2.3) and offers utmost operating flexibility a smaller number of basic components and integrating and complete interoperability on metro lines managed safety, diagnostics and traffic management functions in by different systems/technology operators. one single control station, poised to become the best response to the increasingly sophisticated demands of Carborne controllers determine vehicle position and the railway and metro market. enforce movement within the authorised limits (LMA = limit of movement authority). Each vehicle’s position Applications is updated and reported continuously to the wayside Area Controller. The Area Controller can update each Since the late nineties, Ansaldo STS has vehicle’s LMA, knowing the position of the previous implemented the requirements for an “open” vehicle going in the same direction. This tool makes platform on standard protocols, such as, TVM Lyonit possible to set a “moving block”, which safely Marseilles (1999), ERMTS Rome-Naples (2005), and significantly shortens the headway between two Turin-Milan (2006), Milan-Bologna (2008), Zheng-Xi consecutive trains on the same track, increasing (2010), Madrid-Lleida (2011), Cambrian (2011), the transportation system’s overall capacity. Poříčany-Kolin (2011), Haparandabanan (2013), the Communication between the control systems in the CBTC lines in Chengdu (2011), Shenyang (2012), adjacent interlocking areas and carborne controllers the Ankara Metro (2014) and the conventional supports safe headway maintenance and maximises Turin-Padua lines (2014). line capacity. Applications TRAMWAVE® This is a power system for trams that uses an embedded Ansaldo STS has already installed and fully rolled ground-level power supply which only energises the part out this technology on the Paris Metro Line 3 of the line being used by a tram. The system enables and, in China, on Lines 1 and 2 of the Chengdu the protection of historic city centres, as it eliminates Metro and on Line 1 on the Zhengzhou Metro. conventional overhead electric lines. The concept behind Ankara Metro received the Safety Assessment this innovative tram system and the excellent results Approval for CBTC operation. It is currently achieved in the wake of testing have generated enormous designing and, in some cases, installing this interest among urban planners in countries looking for technology on projects including the Stockholm safe, ecological and low-environmental impact public Metro’s Red Line, the Taipei Metro’s Circular Line, transit solutions. the Milan Metro’s Line 4, the Copenhagen Metro’s Cityringen and the Riyadh Metro (the last two will Applications be driverless), along with another six metro lines in In November 2013, a contract was signed with the China, in the cities of Shenyang, X’ian, HangZhou Chinese company CNR Equipment Engineering Co and Dalian. Ltd for the supply of 8.7 km of TramWave® double track lines to build a new tram system in the city of Zhuhai in southeast China. The contract also provides for the installation of the related reception, diagnostics and powering systems. It has made it possible for Ansaldo STS to build the first catenaryfree tramway and begin the technology transfer process to the CNR/GRG joint venture, which will manufacture and sell the product in China in exchange for a lump sum and royalties for each km of line sold. In November 2014, a trial run took place along a 1 km section using a tram from the fleet as part of an international event in Zhuhai. During the year, works were completed and the trial run was extended to the line as a whole, pending the activation of the revenue service at the end of the test stage. 73 Innovation | Main products conceived and undergoing development Satellite signalling For the first time in railway history, Ansaldo STS • t he “Satellite Technology for Advanced Railway has used satellites to manage safe train travel. Signalling” project financed by the GSA (European In March 2012, Ansaldo STS signed the 3InSat Global Navigation Satellite System Agency) which contract with ESA (European Space Agency) to will be launched in 2016; develop and validate new safe geo-localisation and • the “Railway High Integrity Navigation Overlay satellite telecommunications platforms to be used System” project which will be launched by the GSA for ERTMS-ETCS railway signalling systems. Ansaldo in 2016. STS is the head of an industrial consortium that Furthermore, Ansaldo STS is party to a contract includes the participation of, inter alia, RFI, DB-Nets for the provision of a signalling system for freight and DLR (Germany’s space agency), which, together traffic that positions rolling stock using the satellite with ASI (Italy’s space agency) are the greatest technology, to the customer Roy Hill. The system contributors to the European satellite navigation integration tests will begin in 2016 in Roy Hill using system, GALILEO. a traction unit with IETO and On Board LDS on-board equipment, three reference stations and one VSS (IXL/RBC). Link >S  ee page 158 “Research projects with TCCS Train Conformity Check System Italian and EU public institutions” TCCS is a multi-functional railway portal that automatically detects irregular conditions that affect Ansaldo STS’s solution constitutes a technological rolling stock in transit. It is one of the company’s key innovation of global importance. It will use projects thanks to its cutting edge technology. Thanks geo-localisation satellite technology instead of to its sensors, the portal controls passing trains at conventional train localisation systems, which cruise speed and overlaps the visible form, laser and require electronic devices installed along the railway infrared to detect: line, thereby reducing costs and environmental • the composition of the train and models of impact. component vehicles; • overheated parts of the train and fire risk; Applications • abnormal load; • shape compatibility. In 2014, the development phase of the satellite systems was completed and testing on the TCCS ensures higher safety standards for the railway Cagliari-Olbia line started with the prototypes. system, reducing the risk of accidents. During the first stage, Ansaldo STS tested the feasibility of the TLC satellite system integrated with the cellular network while the second Applications stage, which took place in 2015, and the first two months of 2016, will be focused on The TCCS product was developed on the multitesting the on-board and wayside satellite function portal prototype installed at Sezze (Latina), localisation equipment. The 3InSat project will ordered by Rete Ferroviaria Italiana after its be completed in February 2016. Following the call to tender. It is currently completed and in use. successful results achieved to date, RFI and In 2015, two new portals were installed in Italy Trenitalia officially expressed their interest in (on the Milan-Genoa and La Spezia-Parma lines) to applying the L2/L3 ERTMS integrated satellite ensure the safety and protection of railway tunnels, solution on almost 45% of the secondary including by obtaining the SIL4 certification under traditional network, replacing the current CENELEC provisions. signalling systems. In order to maintain its leadership position in the ERTMS satellite technology sector and to extend the existing functionalities, Ansaldo STS launched the following projects: • the “ERTMS on Satellite – Enabling Application and Validation” project financed by the Galileo Space Agency in 2015; 74 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Product and solution safety and reliability Ansaldo STS ensures that its products, applications • CEI 50129 on electronic device safety; and systems, which it develops and delivers are: safe, • CEI 50159 on railway communications security. in compliance with the Italian and international laws applicable to the railway systems; reliable, pursuant to its customers’ requirements and its internal quality Recording and assessment of nonstandards. conformities and accidents to improve safety Any non-conformities with safety specifications during These activities are performed on all Ansaldo STS the development, testing and, obviously, roll-out, projects in which safety and reliability are relevant, is carefully analysed and recorded. In general, no which constitute over 90% of total company activities. conduct of this type is tolerated and requires a review and change (hardware or software) in the element that Safety and reliability are achieved through hazard does not meet the technical specifications provided analysis, a structured process in line with sector for. standards. It begins with the identification of hazards based on previous experience, the assessment of In general, Ansaldo STS gathers two types of data to specifications for the various processes stages and assess the reliability of its products: data on parts hazard workshops during which experts from Ansaldo (fault charts), beginning with the assistance requests STS and customers discuss the various issues. sent to the Service unit and data on systems Potential hazards are then included in a hazard log, affecting the key service parameters (frequency of which is constantly updated over the life cycle of the trains, skipped runs, delays, etc.). Data on parts project. For each hazard mapped, the log also includes are analysed to identify the most defective parts the mitigation measures, activities to check that they and alternative solutions are sought to improve were effectively implemented and an assessment of the performance, while for data on systems, all service residual hazard. The residual hazard level is assessed interruptions are analysed to determine the causes. and accepted only if it is below the limits established by standards and customer requirements. Reliability of solutions The main safety standards are those issued by The reliability of solutions is also due to the use CENELEC European Committee for Electrotechnical of redundant platforms that provide fault tolerant Standardisation. Specifically, relevant standards are: configurations, i.e., those that can continue to function • CEI 50126 on RAMS applicable to railway field; even when certain sections present faults. This type of • CEI 50128 on software security; approach was successfully applied in Italian high-speed 75 Innovation | Energy efficiency and respect for the environment railways, where specific systems have been developed Safer spaces for customers and end users for the diagnostics and control of the electrical Ansaldo STS offers passengers safe and controlled substations. These tools make it possible to plan areas by equipping network vehicles with sensors that “preventive maintenance” on lines, i.e., monitoring constantly monitor railway areas. The sensors operate all substations and reporting when one of them is around the clock. at risk of faults. In this way, greater environmental sustainability is ensured, with the resulting reduced consumption of spare parts and lower risk of service interruptions on the line due to faults. Energy efficiency and respect for the environment Ansaldo STS’s unwavering Energy efficiency • “ Technologies for energy commitment to providing its Ansaldo STS’s research into savings”, for ground recovery customers and end users energy efficiency concentrates on systems, geothermal heat (passengers and freight) with the following macro-areas: pumps, simulators for the the best products and system • “Assistance with the design optimal size of supercapacitor solutions, the use of the best design of turnkey systems”, through accumulation systems. methodologies and procedures holistic hardware-in-theand the best existing construction loop simulators to provide a The company develops these areas methods and processes contributes transport system that uses as part of the MERLIN (Management to increasing safety and reducing energy efficiently. of Energy in Railway Systems), OSI direct and indirect impact on the • “Operation – rail & driverless”, RIS (Optimal Strategy to Innovate environment. focused on searching for and Reduce energy consumption the optimum speed profile, In urban rail Systems) and SFERE considering scheduling and (Sistemi FERroviari: ecosostenibilità driving conduct. e Risparmio Energetico) research projects. Link See page 158 “Research projects with Italian and EU public institutions” 76 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report ANSALDO STS’s MEASURES TO IMPROVE THE SUSTAINABILITY OF ITS PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS Satellite constellation TMS provides Traffic Fixed Block and Moving Control & Regulation and Block principles are data needed to perform provided. real time train regulation Moving Block allows in order to manage train better line exploitation regulation. Moreover and reduces the need of provides the strategy to wayside signaling device ATO in order to allow power installation. consumption reduction and Supervision save energy. CTC/SCADA • Traffic • Mainpower Wayside Train • Stations Separation • Maintenance Systems (RBC, ZC) Radio links to wayside Wayside signaling (RBC/ZC) and Interlocking supervision systems (TMS) On board ATP / LDS / ATO Signals Encoders Reference Station Satellite augmentation Point Machines Track circuit Balises Sensors Moving Block and On Board ATC high Grade of Automation (GoA) allow reducing devices along the line Balises deployment (Signal, Track Circuits, is avoided thanks Axle Counters). Less to satellite Location LDS on board provides Virtual components, less Determination Balises to ATP. maintenance and System (LDS). Less ATP provides safe train control. environmental impact. devices, less cost, ATO provides automatic less maintenance and driving according to time environmental impact. table constraints. Moreover it performs driving algorithms and strategies in order to reduce power consumption. Two important innovations introduced by Ansaldo STS in signalling systems for train control relate to the The company is currently standardising the new COTS use of public telecommunications networks and GPS (Commercial Off The Shelf) hardware platforms based Global Positioning Satellite technology. The use of on CPU with Atom (single or dual core) technology, these new control systems replaces track equipment, which allow a reduction in consumption from about which required greater energy consumption. These 250 W to about 30 W for each processing unit, nearly systems will especially be used on low traffic lines in 90%. For example, as there are more than 250 CPU Europe, which make up about 50% of the total network on the northbound line, the estimated energy saving is length. approximately 1,320 KW a day. 77 Innovation | Energy efficiency and respect for the environment Reducing raw materials consumption integrated registration, evaluation, authorisation and The use of powerful technological platforms integrating restriction system for chemicals established in the several functions in the same subsystem enables EU); Ansaldo STS to reduce the size of equipment and their • analysis of the re-usability and recyclability of connectors, using simple and effective systems for materials; scheduling, testing and roll-out. In addition, the search • Life Cycle Assessment (LCA)16 for increasingly standardised designs encourages innovation and a reduced use of components. The methodological approach entails a comparison of processes, materials and products in order to evaluate Specifically, over the past few years, methods to whether choices are ecologically compatible. The design compact hardware of the central and outlying units of stage, along with an analysis of costs and quality level, the railway control systems produced by Ansaldo STS makes it possible to identify critical points in the life were introduced and refined. They are based on both cycle. The analysis process is carried out using software mechanical and technological solutions and allow a and considering the applicable legislative requirements reduction in volumes, size, heat dissipation and waste and UNI ISO 14040 standards17. to be eliminated of roughly 35%-40%. There is also more focus on the choice of materials, Other methods to eliminate and simplify hardware increasingly based on their ecological compatibility, included: starting from the product’s design stage (e.g., resins • the use of software from different subsystems on and paints of tropicalised circuit boards). the same machine, such as for example, interlocking and radio block centre, usually used on separate New approaches to hardware testing make the hardware; simultaneous testing of thousands of units possible, • the use of environmental sensors already in place whereas previously tests were performed on one “box”, as standard features on the CPUs instead of the or controller, at a time. This solution, called WSP Sim, previously used external sensor units; has already been used for the Pisa system (northbound • replacement of very bulky (and energy consuming) line). sophisticated industrial monitors with commercial equipment that meets the modern Green IT paradigms The environmental management requirement for some including with respect to the environmental impact of ongoing contracts (e.g., the Copenhagen Cityringen) the materials used (this approach had already been is to define an environmental policy to be applied implemented in the Turin-Padua northbound line and during all the system implementation stages and is of great interest for the revamping of the existing requires preparation of an environmental impact systems); plan, an environmental action plan, etc.. In particular, • centralised diagnostics (via web) rather than located with respect to ecodesign, environmental impact in the outlying sites; considerations must be included in the project flow • maintenance systems based on commercial handheld in line with the environmental policy. The following devices replacing the traditional “heavy” equipment objectives are set: (this approach had already been implemented for the • base the environmental management system on the Roy Hill project); DS/EN ISO 14001 standard; • study and testing of embedded highly efficient • consider environmental issues when taking decisions innovative systems for railway applications (NEMBO and include them in the project characteristics; research project). • work to high environmental standards and improve performances as much as possible over the project term; Ecodesign • use raw materials and energy efficiently, optimising Partly in response to certain new contracts (e.g., the their re-use and recycling to minimise waste and Montreal MPM-10 train control system project), Ansaldo waste products; STS is paying greater attention to studying ecodesign • safeguard environmental values and culture; aspects, including to meet customers’ environmental • prevent unwanted environmental consequences and standards, such as: reduce the project’s environmental impact; • Analysis of compliance with REACH – Registration, • make a separate, specific and measurable Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals (an commitment to respect nature. 16. L ife Cycle Assessment (“LCA”) is a methodology that evaluates a series of interactions that a product or service has with the environment, considering its entire life cycle, which includes pre-production (including the extraction and production of materials), production, distribution, use (including re-use and maintenance), recycling and final disposal. The LCA procedure is standardised at international level by ISO 14040 and 14044 (International Organization for Standardization). 17. The regulation describes the principles and reference framework to assess the lifecycle. 78 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report LED technology Reliable and efficient hourly traffic For the last few years, Ansaldo STS has produced LEDThe tools that Ansaldo STS has designed and based traffic lights at the Tito Scalo and Batesburgh produced enable operators to create more efficient sites. This innovation has a positive impact on energy timetables for trains running on railway infrastructures, consumption, the management of maintenance and the establishing, in particular, which places are the best for disposal of maintenance material. Suffice it to say that stops, junctions and passing, and determining travel bulbs were normally changed every four months, while times to minimise waits and consumption. Therefore, LED bulbs last at least ten years. these tools make it possible to prevent and supply pro-active measures to combat traffic caused by train Specifically, the following products have been developed, delays, scheduled and non-scheduled maintenance, produced and are already installed for various natural disasters and personnel shifts. This support operations (such as the Turin-Padua line) in Italy alone: technology is also used to significantly cut down • SALACC (LED signalling for electronic central on fuel by increasing the average speed of trains, management systems) concurrently reducing the waste of fuel for acceleration • Blue LED Signal for electronic central management closely followed by braking due to temporary systems slowdowns or signals to stop. • Blue LED Signal for ACEI systems • Shunting Signal LED for ACC • Shunting Signal LED for ACEI (currently being endorsed with RFI) Investment in innovation and intellectual property In 2015, total expenditure for research and development came to €39.8 million (2014: €37.3 million), with income generated from grants of approximately €2.9 million (2014: €4.3 million). Ansaldo STS carefully safeguards its intellectual property, requiring, inter alia, the filing of patents and the registration of trademarks. At year end, it held 77 families of patents, while 13 were under evaluation, and 44 registered trademarks. 79 THE ENVIROMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Environmental sustainability 82 Environmental policy 83 Environmental training 84 Climate change 86 Environmental performance 90 Health and safety 100 Ansaldo STS’s environmental sustainability and focus on its people’s safety is a daily commitment for Ansaldo STS which it meets by adopting specific policies and encouraging ethical conduct by its collaborators and stakeholders. Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Energy consumption per hour worked production sites – 17.4 % Accident rates Accident rates production sites office sites frequency 0.27 frequency 0.14 – 8.3 % seriousness 1.07 seriousness 2.74 greenhouse gas production Integrated management system quality, safety and the 34.3 electrical energy from % environment renewable sources One of the highest scorers in the Carbon Disclosure Project – 4.9 % – 27.5 % electrical energy total production consumption of waste office sites 81 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Environmental sustainability Environmental sustainability Ansaldo STS is aware of the fact that carrying out its Ansaldo STS complies with the current regulations business in social, environmental and cultural contexts and also applies best practices to achieve better that often differ widely, requires a commitment to results, continuously improving its environmental pursue the common goal of sustainable economic management in an economically effective way. development in terms of the direct consequences that its business could have and its spheres of influence. To this end, it has developed an approach based on the preventive analysis of the impacts of its Ansaldo STS’s guiding environmental principles are: operations on the environment and the constant • compliance with ruling regulations; monitoring of consumption and waste during • prevention of environmental damage caused by its production. This approach has allowed the company operations; to identify “environmental improvement” areas and to • ensuring that its operations are sustainable; intervene with specific measures: • constantly updating monitoring tools; • energy efficiency, through tailored initiatives to • application of ongoing improvement principles; optimise office lighting by installing low power • transparent disclosure of its environmental performance; systems and building insulation systems designed • encouraging its employees to adopt sustainable to reduce the need for heating; conduct. • increase personnel’s awareness of the issue of environmental protection, encouraging them to In order to actively and responsibly contribute to adopt environmentally-conscious conduct to save combating the challenges posed by climate change, energy, as part of ongoing improvement. Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Environmental policy Ansaldo STS’ environmental policy is based on the Integrated management system application of UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 requirements Ansaldo STS has implemented an integrated management and those of other relevant international standards, system (IMS) for the environment, safety and quality, compliance with applicable domestic and international establishing global corporate policies and procedures legislation, developing a programme focused on the to ensure the controlled management of processes continuous improvement of environmental standards. and activities relating to safety in the workplace and The policy is shared with all Ansaldo STS personnel environmental protection. Subsequently each company and all concerned parties online and via the company established local environmental and safety policies, on the Intranet. basis of legislative requirements and corporate policies and procedures. Internally, in line with its mission, Ansaldo STS involves all personnel in the reduction and control of the At 31 December 2015, all three production sites were environmental impact of its business, by clearly defining certified for quality (ISO 9001), health and safety (OHSAS objectives and accountability. In this way, Ansaldo STS 18001) and the environment (ISO 14001), and the Tito aims to be recognised as one of the leading companies Scalo production site had also registered its EMAS (Eco for the safeguarding and protection of the environment. Management and Audit Scheme). 18 office sites have quality certification and environmental, health and safety certification, as shown in the table below: COUNTRY NON-PRODUCTION SITES ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 UNITED KINGDOM London • • • FRANCE Les Ulis • • • SPAIN Madrid • • • SWEDEN Solna • • • EUROPE • • DENMARK Copenhagen • IN PROGRESS GREEN SMILE WITH CROWN Genoa • • ITALY Naples • • Piossasco • • US Pittsburgh • • • Brisbane • • AS/ZNS 4801:01 • Newcastle • • AS/ZNS 4801:01 • AUSTRALIA Perth • • AS/ZNS 4801:01 • Sidney • • AS/ZNS 4801:01 • Karratha • • AS/ZNS 4801:01 Kolkata • • • INDIA Noida • • • Bangalore • • • CANADA Ontario • • • COUNTRY NON-PRODUCTION SITES ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 US Batesburg • • • FRANCE Riom • • • ITALY Tito Scalo • • EMAS • 83 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Environmental training Scope of application of the environmental and control of production, commissioning, rollmanagement system out of plant and delivery to the customer. With The environmental management system that the respect to environmental issues Ansaldo STS, as a Ansaldo STS companies have adopted is applied to the result of such activities, operates according to an following: environmental site management procedure, based • PRODUCTION SITES for the manufacturing of on an initial environmental analysis of the work to products to be used in safety, control and monitoring be performed at the site, prepared and agreed with systems supplied by Ansaldo STS; the subcontractors. Following initial analyses, a • OFFICE SITES mainly for signalling monitoring plan is prepared to continuously ensure plant design; the analysis of safety, legal compliance and that all opportunities are taken reliability and availability; laboratory to limit the environmental impact that the opening of testing; contract management and any site inevitably entails. control; research and development; procurement; and prevention and The environmental management system takes into protection; account both direct impact, i.e., the impact of Ansaldo • WORK SITES. where Ansaldo STS companies’ operations, and indirect impact, i.e., STS’s direct activities relate to impact associated with purchasing, design and product management and coordination, surveillance supply processes. Environmental training Ansaldo STS’s environmental In 2015, Ansaldo STS carried out • t he potential consequences of training path has been training and information sessions not complying with the specified implemented with the cooperation to draw attention to: operating procedures. of training needs managers (TNM). • the procedures and requirements This initiative aims to identify of the environmental The training sessions were held personnel who can serve as management system; by personnel competent in the contacts for Human Resources in • the significant, real or potential relevant field. The specialised the definition of specific training/ environmental impact of technical focus of the training development plans for operational activities and the environmental demonstrates Ansaldo STS’s aim structures, in order to facilitate benefits of improving individual of targeting, operating positions understanding of the specific performance; involved in duties and activities needs of each operational unit and • the roles and responsibilities that are potentially critical in terms make it possible to define projects needed to achieve compliance of the environment. With a view that more accurately target their with the environmental policy and to focusing on maximising the actual needs. TNM is distinguished the procedures and requirements efficiency of training, a total of by its concept of “Community”, of the environmental 919 hours of training was provided which translates into encouraging management system, including during the year. the creation of a network to reduce preparing for emergency geographical distances. situations and response capacity; Environmental training 2013 2014 2015 Total hours of environmental training 1,494 2,713 919 At the production sites with the highest environmental risks, the percentage of hours of environmental training compared to total training increased from 2.1% to 2.9%. 84 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Ansaldo STS has taken part in the city of Pittsburgh’s 2030 Districts Project to halve energy use, water use and transportation CO2 emissions by 2030. 11.6% 0% 50% Energy 10% 20% 35% 0% In progress 50% Water 10% 20% 35% 0% In progress 50% Transportation 10% 20% 35% As part of the project Pittsburgh conducts the following to assist companies to scale back their impact on the environment: • two-monthly meetings with partners to decide solution • c alculation and measurement of partners’ data using a strategies; reporting platform. • training sessions for company personnel; Mainline Botswana Safeworking 85 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Climate change Climate change Ansaldo STS sees climate change as an opportunity. As part of this approach, it analyses the potential impact of its strategic climate change decisions in the short, medium and long-term, in order to find opportunities to develop the management strategy based on the This strategy focuses mainly on three business, improve its efficiency following principles: spheres of influence: and to identify the related risks. • global approach: the development • in-house activities and direct of mechanisms that encompass emissions from its sites (Scope 1 the commitment of all Ansaldo STS emissions); sites; • electrical energy suppliers and • reasonable and feasible long-term their operating emissions due to objectives: the establishment of a Ansaldo STS’s activities (Scope 2 clear and realistic vision of the steps emissions); The company is committed to to be taken; • Ansaldo STS’s supply chain and progressively reducing GHG • support for the development of the emissions resulting from the emissions in all of its processes. Its technologies: developing advanced production and delivery of goods activities and initiatives to combat technological solutions. and services (Scope 3 emissions). climate change are part of the environmental management system that Ansaldo STS has established at a global level, developing a carbon CO2 Carbon Management System Since 2011, Ansaldo STS has bottom line, with the possibility of •e  conomic/environmental implemented and renewed its investing the savings. analyses in relation to current commitment to reduce the regulations on emission reduction greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions The CMS has been developed in to determine assets’ potential produced directly and indirectly line with the relevant international value-at-risk; in the performance of its standards. This system enables the • the measurement of the activities by applying the carbon company to perform: effectiveness of emission management system (CMS), a • analyses of actual emissions reduction projects; system that enables it to monitor produced; • communication on Ansaldo STS’s the carbon emission improvement • monitoring and reporting on emission reduction performance process. This entails a planning, emissions by type (Scope 1, to the concerned parties, media, implementation and measurement Scope 2 and Scope 3); investors, rating agencies and process for emission reduction • comparisons between historical other organisations. goals. An efficient carbon data and forward-looking management policy will enable analyses; the company to reduce emissions, • an assessment of the impact of decrease consumption and reduce products, in terms of emissions energy costs, thereby improving its over their entire life cycle; 86 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Activities carried out to reduce the direct and indirect production of GHG Within its organisation, Ansaldo STS Travel Policy sustainable means through its has appointed a Carbon Manager, an Ansaldo STS’s initiatives to travel policy. Energy Manager and a Water Manager improve employee travel include responsible for providing information optimising travel paths, using One of the effects of the travel and carrying out activities and projects carpooling and car sharing policy can be measured by the with respect to energy savings at all and promoting the use of considerable reduction in long-haul company operating sites. public transportation and more air travel. Employees’ travel distance 2014 2015 Short-haul flights [km] 16,544,435 18,388,450 Long-haul flights [km] 32,432,536 28,938,809 Road trips [km] 6,525,112 5,848,083 TOTAL [km] 55,502,083 53,175,341 Freight transport distance 2014 2015 By road [km] 1,896,000 773,000 By plane short haul flights [km] 688,634 720,000 By plane long haul flights [km] 1,597,815 1,750,000 By sea [km] 196,571 74,387 TOTAL [km] 4,379,020 3,317,387 Energy efficiency conditioning on later in the morning and off earlier in Over the years, Ansaldo STS has implemented energy the evening; efficiency projects that have contributed to reducing • improvement in the data centre’s energy efficiency; energy consumption by nearly 20% Below are examples • affixing of signs to remind personnel about energy of steps taken by Ansaldo STS to reduce energy saving projects, such as turning off lights, laptop consumption: computers and devices that consume energy; • installation of energy-efficient lighting systems and • reduction in the number of vehicles used by the related electrical systems; company; • increase in the energy efficiency of air conditioning • reduction in the total volume of waste sent to and air treatment systems; landfills by encouraging the use of low impact • elimination of or reduction in the use of transformers substances promoting the reduction, recovery and and air compressors; recycling of waste. • revision of the automated building management system to turn the lighting system and air 87 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Climate change Results In the last three years, Co2 production has gone from recording an overall reduction of 1,725.9 tonnes 19,272 tonnes in 2013 to 17,546.1 tonnes in 2015, (-9%). 2013 2014 2015 CO2 CH4 N2O CO2e CO2 CH4 N2O CO2e CO2 CH4 N2O CO2e GHG (t) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (t) (t) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (t) (t) (tCO2e) (tCO2e) (t) SCOPE 1 2,741.3 6.2 3.8 2,751.3 2,826.0 6.9 4.9 2,837.8 2,140.9 6.7 2.2 2,149.8 SCOPE 2 7,743.2 3.1 23.7 7,770.0 7,739.2 3.0 23.3 7,765.5 7,432.3 3.7 18.9 7,454.9 SCOPE 3 8,262.9 480.2 7.6 8,750.7 8,107.8 423.7 6.7 8,538.2 6,914.9 1,024.9 1.5 7,941.4 TOTAL 18,747.4 489.5 35.1 19,272.0 18,673.0 433.6 34.9 19,141.5 16,488.2 1,035.3 22.6 17,546.1 Scope (tCO2/e) 10,000 7,770 10,000 8,751 8,538 7,765 7,941 8,000 7,455 8,000 6,000 6,000 4,000 2,751 2,838 4,000 4,000 2,150 2,000 2,000 2,000 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 SCOPE I SCOPE II SCOPE III The following table details GHG emissions trend in the 2014-15 biennium in all its components: 2014 2015 CO2 CH4 N2O CO2e CO2 CH4 N2O CO2e Var. GHG (tons) (tons) (tons) (tCO2e) (tons) (tons) (tons) (tCO2e) % Stationary combustion of natural gas, fuel oil and GPL to produce heat and energy 1,217.75 0.11 0.00 1,220.97 1,546.60 0.16 0.00 1,551.48 +27.1% Mobile combustion: Fuel oil for cars, lorries and forklifts 1,608.22 0.22 0.02 1,616.83 594.33 0.08 0.01 597.92 -63.0% TOTAL SCOPE I 2,825.97 0.33 0.02 2,837.80 2,140.93 0.24 0.01 2,149.40 -24.3% Electrical energy consumption 7,739.15 0.14 0.08 7,765.43 7,432.30 0.13 0.07 7,454.88 -4.0% TOTAL SCOPE II 7,739.15 0.14 0.08 7,765.43 7,432.30 0.13 0.07 7,454.88 -4.0% Employee flights (short and long haul) 5,275.85 0.00 0.00 5,275.85 5,059.26 0.00 0.00 5,059.26 -4.1% Company cars (short and longterm lease) 1,502.12 0.00 0.01 1,504.00 1,099.25 0.01 0.01 1,100.84 -26.8% Freight transport (by roads, sea and air) 1,007.78 0.03 0.02 1,013.26 450.74 0.01 0.00 451.02 -55.5% Total materials consumption (paper, cardboard packaging, iron,steel and fuel) 314.53 10.38 0.00 532.43 298.09 6.04 0.00 467.16 -12.3% Waste (Incinerated, disposed and recycled) 7.50 9.76 0.00 212.66 7.60 30.55 0.00 863.12 305.9% TOTAL SCOPE III 8,107.78 20.17 0.03 8,538.20 6,914.94 36.61 0.01 7,941.39 -7.0% TOTAL SCOPE I, II, III 18,672.90 20.65 0.11 19,141.43 16,488.2 37.0 0.1 17,546.06 -8.3% 88 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Scope I. In absolute terms, Scope I emissions reduced The same consideration applies to each single Scope by 688 tonnes of CO2e (24.2%) from 2014, as a considered in the GHG Emission Intensity calculation: combined effect of an increase, of 331 tonnes, of • Scope I emissions (direct combustion of fossil fuels emissions from stationary combustion (notably, due from the organisation’s sources) reduced by 24.3%; to natural gas for heat production) and a significant • Scope II emissions (electrical energy used by the reduction, of 1,019 tonnes, of emissions from mobile organisation) reduced by 4%; combustion (notably, due to fuel for cars and trucks). • Scope III emissions (from sources not owned by the organisation, related to the transport of people Scope II. In absolute terms, Scope II emissions reduced and goods, consumption of raw materials and waste by 311 tonnes of CO2e (4.0%) from 2014 due to a disposal) reduced by 7%. 6.6% decrease of electrical energy consumption in the office sites and a 1.5% decrease in the production sites. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The significance of the issue of climate change Scope III. Scope III emissions, covered in reporting, for Ansaldo STS is confirmed through its updated have recorded an overall reduction too: in absolute materiality analysis and its completion of the Investor terms, indirect emissions reduced by 597 tonnes of Carbon Disclosure Project questionnaire for the fifth CO2e (-7.0 %) from 2014. This result was achieved consecutive year. thanks to the company Travel Policy that has helped to reduce emissions related to employees flights by Consolidating the carbon management strategy entails 217 tonnes of CO2e (-4.1 % ), and emissions related defining a total emission reduction target. The CDP to company cars by 403 tonnes of CO2e (-26.8 % ). Italy 100 Climate Change Report for 2015, prepared The optimization of freight transport by road, sea and by First Carbon Solutions, includes a detailed analysis air contributed to a reduction of 562 tonnes of CO2e of Italy’s largest listed companies (in terms of stock (-4.1%) and the reduction of the use of materials led to market capitalisation) on the basis of two parameters: a reduction of 65 tonnes of CO2e (-12.3 %). On the other the quality of the information they use for transparent side, waste related emissions increased to 650 tonnes emissions disclosures and the quality of their climate of CO2e emissions due to a significant increase in the change management performance. In 2015 Ansaldo production of non-hazardous waste disposed in the STS scored 94 out of 100 in terms of disclosures and Batesburg site in the USA. received a performance grade of C, with A being the best possible grade, improving its position compared The following chart shows the trend of GHG Emission to 2014 and ranking among the highest scoring Intensity, which measures the tonnes of GHG companies. It is the third best participating company in emissions by each €1 million of turnover. the transporation industry. GHG Emission Intesity Total e Scope I, II, e III (tCO2e/mln€ di fatturato) 18,000 Total GHG Emission 16,000 15.67 Intensity 14,000 14.68 13.46 Scope III-GHG Emission 12,000 10,000 Intensity 8,000 Scope II-GHG Emission 7.12 6.55 6.09 6,000 6.32 5.96 Intensity 5.72 4,000 2,000 2.24 2.18 1.65 Scope I-GHG Emission 0,000 Intensity 2013 2014 2015 GHG Emission Intensity (direct and indirect) KPI shows a 8.3% reduction from 2014 to 2015, from 14.68 tonnes of CO2 by each €1 million of turnover recorded in 2014 to 13,46 tonnes recorded in 2015. Such result is due to above mentioned emissions decrease and an increase in the turnover. The reduction is even greater if compared to 2013 (-14.1%). 89 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Environmental performance Environmental performance The scope of the report considered to process environmental, health and safety performance comprises the 16 sites of group companies (Pittsburgh, Genoa, Brisbane, Les Ulis, Bangalore, Solna, Batesburg, Naples, Karratha, Riom, Kolkata, Kuala Lumpur, Piossasco, Noida, Tito Scalo and Perth) that present significant environmental aspects: they are either sites where production is carried out or are non-production sites (offices) with more than ten employees. They employ 94% of the group’s total employees. PRODUCTION SITES These are sites in Tito Scalo, systems. Site activities mainly Activities important from an Italy, Riom, France and Batesburg, consist of mechanical processing, environmental viewpoint are mainly US, where electro-mechanical the treatment of metallic and painting, welding, moulding and parts and electronic devices are non-metallic materials, thermal cleaning circuits (electronic cards) produced to be used in railway treatments, superficial treatments using solvent. safety, control and monitoring and applying glue and resins. Total Plants, storage Dirt car parks Runways Hours area andwarehouses and roads Green areas of airfields Employees worked m2 m2 % m2 % m2 % m2 % NO. NO. TITO SCALO 40,000 8,400 21% 7,600 19% 24,000 60% 125 233,416 RIOM 17,000 5,610 33% 510 3% 9,690 57% 1,700 10% 134 239,917 BATESBURG 146,330 19,023 13% 45,362 31% 81,945 56% 162 272,162 Total 203,330 33,033 16% 53,472 26% 115,635 57% 1,700 421 745,495 The three production sites cover a total surface area of 203,330 square metres. Employees number 421 (+5.3% on 2014) and worked a total of 745,495 hours in 2015 (+18.9% on 2014). The Batesburg and Tito sites are located in areas that are included in the list of contaminated sites of national interest. 90 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report OFFICE SITES Activities performed at the 13 • three in Italy: Genoa, Piossasco metres, with 2,833 workers (-11% administrative sites mainly consist (Turin) and Naples; on 2014), for a total number of signalling plant design, the • two in Europe: Les Ulis (France) of hours worked in 2015 of analysis of safety, reliability and and Solna Stockholm (Sweden); 5,807,027 (-8.7%). availability, laboratory testing, • one in the US: Pittsburgh; contract management and control, • seven in the Asia Pacific: None of the 16 Ansaldo STS sites research and development, Brisbane, Perth and Karratha are subject to the IPPO (Integrated procurement, and prevention and (Australia); Kuala Lumpur Pollution Prevention and Control) protection. (Malaysia); Bangalore, Noida and directive. Kolkata (India). In geographical terms, the location Non-production sites cover a total of office sites are: surface area of 147,407 square 91 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Environmental performance Energy consumption Energy consumption is an environmental aspect In absolute terms, 72.9% of total energy consumption that is assessed and measured at all Ansaldo STS is due to the 13 office sites and 27.1% to the three offices and production sites when the environmental production sites. aspects of work sites and the construction of civil and technological works are analysed. At these three production sites, energy consumption was down 1.7% on 2014, due to the drop in Total Energy Consumption (GJ) consumption in natural gas (-4.0%) and electrical energy (-1.5%), while the consumption of petrol and Electrical energy Diesel Natural gas Petrol and other fuels other fuels rose (+2.7%). 834 810 29,450 20,741 2,653 The office sites showed a decrease in energy 26,849 14,840 22,334 7,197 consumption (-11.0%) due to the reduction in consumption of electrical energy (-6.6%) and fuel 92,303 89,553 85,141 oil (-67.9%), while the consumption of natural gas (+37.1%) and consumption of petrol and other fuels 2013 2014 2015 rose five-fold due to the aforementioned policy at the Pittsburgh site to reduce the use of short-haul flights. To meet its production and operating requirements in 2015, the group consumed a total of 121,841.5 ENERGY INTENSITY GJ of energy (-8.6% compared to 2014). This Total energy consumption by hour worked (GJ/hours) consumption can be broken down as follows: electricity from the grid: 69.9%; natural gas: 22.0%; 0.0600 fuel oil to produce energy and for fuel vehicle 0.0500 0.0506 0.0535 traction: 5.9%; petrol and other fuels: 2.2%. 0.0400 0.0442 Office sites 0.0300 Total energy consumption cuts were due to the 4.9% 0.0200 Production sites 0.0157 0.0153 reduction in the consumption of electricity and the 0.0100 0.0155 67.8% decrease in fuel oil (particularly for vehicle 0.0000 traction). On the other hand, the consumption of 2013 2014 2015 natural gas was up by 29.4% due to the increase in consumption at non-production sites, and the In 2015, the Energy indicator showed a substantial consumption of petrol more than tripled as the US reduction at production sites (-17.3%) due to the site in Pittsburgh used cars rather than aeroplanes combined effect of the increase in hours worked for short-haul journeys. (+18.9%) and the decrease in consumption (-1.7%). The indicator showed as stable for the office sites: both consumption (-11.0%) and hours worked (-8.7%) were down. PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Electrical energy (GJ) 28,488.2 29,261.2 28,834.3 63,814.4 60,291.8 56,307.0 Natural gas (GJ) 4,434.6 3,867.3 3,711.2 25,015.4 16,874.1 23,138.2 Petrol and other fuels (GJ) 368.9 379.5 389.7 465.4 430.6 2,263.7 Fuel oil (GJ) 42.6 42.9 42.9 14,796.7 22,291.4 7,154.5 TOTAL (GJ) 33,334.2 33,550.9 32,978.11 104,091.9 99,887.9 88,863.4 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Energy efficiency Ansaldo STS is currently implementing a project to Within the overall reporting scope, the energy reduce its energy use at its Italian sites in Genoa, intensity of buildings indicator, calculated on the Piossasco (Turin), Naples and Tito Scalo (Potenza) by consumption of electricity and natural gas for heating, 20% by 2015. The project was launched in 2010 with showed a reduction at production sites, due to the an analysis of energy consumption (electrical energy lower consumption of electrical energy (-1.5%) and and gas for heating) over recent years and a future natural gas (-4.0%), and an increase at the office projection that showed an increase. As a result, sites due the rise in the consumption of natural gas the need arose to contain and reduce consumption (+37.1%), which offset the reduction in electrical and, consequently, reduce GHG emissions (CO2 in energy consumption (-6.6%). particular). Both the Genoa and Solna office sites use district The types of steps to be taken as part of this project heating. provide, for the Piossasco site, the replacement of much of the energy infrastructure which is obsolete KPI ENERGY INTENSITY OF BUILDINGS (GJ/sqm) (pipes, valves, lighting, etc.), while for the Genoa, 1.13 Tito and Naples sites, the approach will focus more 1.10 on rationalising consumption (less lighting in offices, 1.05 including when personnel are not present, turning off 1.00 1.02 1.03 PCs and displays when they are not in use, etc.) on 0.99 0.95 Production sites the basis of actual needs, with the replacement of Office sites 0.90 certain plant with energy-saving oriented systems only 0.89 0.84 where they are obsolete. 0.85 0.80 The consumption of electrical energy decreased from 2013 2014 2015 2013 to 2015 (-3.8%). OTHER ENERGY SOURCES USED 2013 2014 2015 ITALIAN SITES – EE CONSUMPTION (KWh) 2013 2014 2015 District heating (kWh) 881,791 822,118 671,544 Tito Scalo 1,852,732 1,859,586 1,600,479 Genoa 673,333 622,222 517,000 Piossasco 1,644,649 1,403,437 1,604,048 Solna 208,458 199,896 154,544 Genoa 3,205,524 3,078,189 2,814,047 Naples 2,181,167 1,842,270 1,915,463 TOTAL 8,884,072 8,183,482 7,934,037 The consumption of natural gas also fluctuated due to differences in winter temperatures in the past five years. 93 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Environmental performance Renewable energies ELECTRICAL ENERGY FROM RENEWABLE RESOURCES (KWh) 2013 2014 2015 Energy from renewable sources (all four Italian office sites + the Swedish office site in Solna since 2014) 8,884,072 8,331,906 8,101,030 % renewable sources of total 34.6% 33.5% 34.3% Ansaldo STS again acquired electrical energy By acquiring and subsequently cancelling the certificates consumption certificates for its Italian sites under the (the latter entails the withdrawal of the certificate from Renewable Energy Certificate System (RECS) in 2015. the market), Ansaldo STS demonstrates its commitment These certificates represent 1 MWh, and attest to the to environmental sustainability through its willingness use of energy from renewable sources, which include, to pay the positive difference with the price of electricity as defined by EU directive no. 2009/28: wind, solar, from conventional sources. aerothermal, geothermal, ocean, hydraulic, wasteto-energy, landfill gas, residual gas from purification Since 2014, the Solna site has adopted an energy source processes and biogas. mix that is totally renewable (wind power, hydro-electric and waste-to-energy). Consumption of materials Ansaldo STS is aware of the contribution that each company can give to safeguarding the world’s resources by adopting policies to reduce the intensive use of raw materials, an objective promulgated by the OECD Council and in the sustainability strategies of many nations. MATERIALS 2013 2014 2015 Iron and steel [t] 105.23 0 0 Copper [t] 22.68 22.68 15.32 Lubricant oil [t] 0.05 1.85 1.58 Paper / cardboard packaging used [t] 59.19 62.27 32.41 Paper [t] 84.46 97.38 88.74 The search for increasingly enable Ansaldo STS to reduce standardised designs and the size of equipment and their innovation has led to a reduction in connectors, using simple and the consumption of raw materials effective systems for scheduling, directly and indirectly through a testing and roll-out. reduced use of components. The use of powerful technological platforms integrating several functions in the same subsystem Link > See page 78 “Reducing raw materials consumption” and “Ecodesign” 94 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Atmospheric emissions Atmospheric emissions mainly ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS – PRODUCTION SITES 2013 2014 201518 relate to the production sites and NOx (Kg) 221.73 193.37 185.75 only some of the sites (Les Ulis – CO (Kg) 110.87 96.68 92.86 France, Pittsburgh – US, Naples and VOC Volatile organic compounds (Kg) 1,021.53 63.2 0.0019 Piossasco – Italy). Volatile inorganic compounds (Kg) 0.10 0.10 0.10 In 2015, there was a reduction Heavy metals (Pb, Hg, Cd, Cr, As, Co, Ni)(Kg) 0.10 0.10 0.10 in atmospheric emissions at Particulates (Kg) 1.70 1.60 1.60 production sites due to lower consumption of natural gas as ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS OFFICE SITES 2013 2014 2015 thermal plants were working, in contrast to other sites where an SO2 (Kg) 157.28 179.24 175.91 increase was recorded (particularly NOx (Kg) 1,495.86 1,123.01 1,464.30 at the Piossasco site). CO (Kg) 642.10 440.90 599.93 The Tito Scalo site monitors plant equipped with effective filters emissions from the production and emissions of volatile organic to reduce pollutants. The emissions handling of goods. The reduced compounds, volatile inorganic are measured directly in the welding of circuit boards, which are compounds and heavy metals chimneys. now purchased already completed, derived from their production has led to a decrease. processes. CO and NOx emissions Data on particulates relate to mainly derive from thermal energy the Tito Scalo site and concern Water management The sustainable management of include the installation of photocell sustainable management of water site water where it is withdrawn, faucets in Italy, projects to recover at office and production sites. used and disposed of encourages rainwater at the Riom site (France) the maintenance and improvement and projects to replace the cooling Ansaldo STS’s water procurement of water use efficiency, ensuring towers with dry systems. sources include aqueducts and less waste and reduced water tables where water is drawn environmental impact. Ansaldo Ansaldo STS’s “Water management through wells. STS manages water resources with guidelines” are applied to all particular attention and over the companies with the aim of defining years has conducted a number the methods to be followed by the of water-saving initiatives. These group’s Italian companies for the PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES WITHDRAWAL OF WATER 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Water drawn from aqueducts (m3/year) 24,715 15,732 14,726 113,125 171,617 160,942 Water drawn from wells (m3/year) 41,854 42,007 41,906 Other sources of procurement (m3/year) 83 92 132 TOTAL 24,715 15,732 14,726 155,063 213,716 202,979 18. 2 015 emissions data have been estimated based on the consumption of natural gas and fuel oil to produce thermal energy using the rates in an analysis of 2014 data. 19. Estimated on the basis of 2014 data and the ratio of hours worked in 2015 compared to the hours worked in 2014 at the Tito Scalo site (1.0693). 95 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Environmental performance The use of water is mainly for civil purposes. Water KPI Consumption of water per employee (m3) consumption at the Tito Scalo (Italy), Riom (France) 80.0 and Batesburg (US) sites is very low. These sites 70.0 67.2 64.9 65.7 reduced their withdrawal of water substantially 60.0 50.0 (-40.4%) from 2013 to 2015, as the Tito Scalo plant 40.0 44.2 Office sites 39.3 cut the amount of industrial water it used for fire drills 30.0 35.0 Production sites and irrigation of green areas. The amount of water 20,0 10.0 used for production decreased because electrical 0.0 circuit cards are no longer rinsed. Water withdrawal at 2013 2014 2015 office sites has also decreased on 2014 (-5.0%). The wastewater produced at the sites can be classified, The water consumption per employee indicator shows on the basis of its use upstream from disposal, as a reduction of 10.9% at the production sites despite domestic (or similar) and industrial. All Ansaldo STS sites the increase in employees, while the office sites show produce wastewater that can be exclusively classified a -2.2% decrease as consumptions were reduced less as domestic or similar, except for the Tito site. All the than proportionately to the reduction in the number of domestic or similar wastewater is discharged into the employees. sewers. The Naples site uses an organic wastewater treatment system. The sites use authorised disposal points: the Batesburg and the Tito Scalo sites’ points are monitored. PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES WASTEWATER 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Volume of domestic or similar wastewater (m3/year) 12,198 8,863 11,007 109,181 126,918 118,483 Volume of industrial wastewater (m3/year) 12,517 2,518 1,400 TOTAL 24,715 11,381 12,407 109,181 126,918 118,483 Industrial wastewater, produced only at the Tito Scalo site, decreased due to favourable weather conditions that allowed a large reduction in consumption. The rinsing water is discharged directly into a consortium sewer while the first rinse water is collected in an external tank and eliminated as waste. Waste production and management The production of waste is an environmental aspect that is assessed and measured at all Ansaldo STS 276 t sites, and when the environmental aspects of work sites and the construction of civil and technological works are analysed. of recovered Ansaldo STS’s policy is to reinforce prevention and the re-use, recycling and recovery of waste. All its waste sites have waste collection areas based on the type of waste and site layout. External specialist (40% of companies collect and process the hazardous and non-hazardous waste. total waste) 96 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES WASTE PRODUCTION 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Hazardous (t) 7.65 14.56 14.50 12.41 21.45 14.72 % recovered 24% 22% 29% 97% 98% 28% % disposed of 76% 78% 71% 3% 2% 72% Non-hazardous (t) 73.84 102.13 296.12 396.50 421.44 306.43 % recovered 76% 96% 33% 57% 47% 55% % disposed of 24% 4% 67% 43% 53% 45% TOTAL WASTE (t) 81.48 116.69 310.62 408.91 442.89 321.16 % recovered 71% 87% 33% 58% 50% 54% % disposed of 29% 13% 67% 42% 50% 46% 2015 TYPE OF WASTE (%) PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES TOTAL WASTE (t) TOTAL WASTE (t) 4.6 500 500 Hazardous 442.89 408.91 400 400 310.62 321.16 300 300 200 200 116.69 100 81.48 100 95.4 Non 0 0 hazardous 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Production sites – Total waste production increased in 2015 due to the growth in non-hazardous waste, mainly at the US Batesburg site. As all waste was disposed of, a spike in the amount of disposed waste compared to recovered waste occurred. On the other hand, the proportion of hazardous waste compared to recovered waste is in line with 2014, with an increase recorded in the amount recovered. Office sites – The total quantity of hazardous and non-hazardous waste produced decreased in 2015. The percentage of hazardous waste that was disposed of grew due to the hazardous waste produced for the first time at the site in Noida (India), which was completely disposed of. On the other hand, the recovered amount of nonhazardous waste increased. Kilograms of waste produced per hour worked grew at KPI Kg. of waste produced per hour worked the production sites due to the aforementioned increase in non-hazardous waste at the Batesburg site (despite 0.450 the rise in the number of hours worked) while the sites 0.399 0.400 saw an overall decrease in total waste produced, with a 0.350 0.300 the decrease in hours worked. Office sites 0.250 0.200 0.186 Production sites 0.150 0.124 0.100 0.050 0.070 0.055 0.061 0.000 2013 2014 2015 97 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Environmental performance Domestic urban waste produced and recycled 2013 2014 2015 Total domestic/urban waste (t) 490.96 606.57 571.80 Total recycled paper [t] 138.44 151.03 109.74 Total recycled plastic [t] 0.03 5.87 5.33 Total recycled wood [t] 36.29 33.73 17.95 Total recycled metal [t] 88.09 77.30 80.33 Total recycled glass [t] 0.01 0.15 0.11 Other recycled domestic/urban waste [t] 12.92 111.61 172.84 Total recycled waste (t) 275.77 379.69 386.29 % RECYCLED 56% 63% 68% Packaging Ansaldo STS uses various mixes of packaging: plastic, introduced a specific policy for this, especially for the cardboard and wood (crates). central warehouses at the Piossasco and Tito Scalo sites. % of material % of Mixed packaging 2013 2014 2015 % of material that is material Quantities of mixed that is recovered for other packaging [t] 12.56 10.42 10.60 Packaging material reused as waste use Plastic 5% 95% All packagings in mixed materials are completely recycled. Cardboard 10% 90% Part of the plastic, cardboard and wood packagings was Wood 15% 65% 20% reused to package similar products as Ansaldo STS has Hazardous materials as R50 (highly toxic for water state of conservation was checked at There are no hazardous materials organisms), 0.01 tonnes of raw the Batesburg production site in 2014. pursuant to Legislative decree materials classified as R51 (toxic for no. 344/99 and subsequent water organisms), 0.07 tonnes of raw Reclamation modifications and integrations at materials classified as R52 (harmful In May 2012, the DHEC Ansaldo STS’s sites. to water organisms) and 0.14 tonnes (Department of Health and of raw materials classified as R53 Environmental Control) sent to Substances harmful to the ozone (can provoke long-term negative Ansaldo STS, Batesburg site, layer are present at the Piossasco effects on water habitats). the approval of the work plan site (0.13 tonnes) and the Batesburg developed by a specialized site (0.09 tonnes). In 2015, the Riom The Les Ulis office site and the consulting firm, which set out a production site used 4.14 tonnes Batesburg production site have proposal for the characterization of of raw materials classified as R40 materials containing compact soil and groundwater closed to the (possible irreversible effects), 0.07 asbestos (roofs and old pipes for factory. The Work approved plan tonnes of raw materials classified steam and water, respectively). Their anticipated: 98 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report • t he installation of 8 permanent and regular work activities. for detailing the nature of the wells for sampling; ERM (Environmental Resources contaminants in both surface water • A soil sampling campaign and Management), on behalf of sediments have been requested subsoil in the perimeter area to Ansaldo STS USA, has provided and regularly carried out (late the plant Ansaldo STS; the presentation of the SBB 2015 and early 2016). The SBB • Gas surveys in groundwater to (Focused Feasibility Plan, in has therefore been revised with all check the concentration of VOCs accordance with the Voluntary the data required for monitoring in the production of the plant. Cleanup, regulations and and evaluating the alternatives guidelines in the environmental that can be implemented on In December 2014 was signed field). In the document, after a a cost-benefit analysis and the Voluntary Clean Up, a contract detailed background of remediation submissive attention of SCDHEC between the SCDHEC (South activities previously carried June 2016. It will be up to Carolina Department of Health out, an analysis is made of the SCDHEC the final decision on the and Environmental Control) and possible alternatives and the plan to implement. Ansaldo STS USA in which Ansaldo criteria according to which it will STS is committed to implementing opt for the most suitable choice Noise the activities (such as the drafting (Overall protection of human Noise levels at all Ansaldo STS of the Focused feasibility Study, health and the environment, sites are observed and exterior and the Long Term Groundwater long term effectiveness and interior noises are monitored at the Monitoring Plan, the health and performance, short term frequencies provided for by current Safety Plan and Written progress effectiveness, compliance with legislation to ensure compliance reports) aimed at continuous regulatory requirements, reduction with applicable thresholds. When improvement and constant of toxicity, mobility or volume, Ansaldo STS is the main contractor, coordination with the SCDHEC, possible implementations, cost, during coordination and security considering all the possible state acceptance). The FFS was activities, it can ask subcontractors remedies that can be implemented presented to SCDHEC and a first for updates on the performance of in a cost relationships and meeting was made on March measurements to check that the impacts on environment, health 31, 2015. Additional sampling thresholds are not exceeded. Non-conformities and environmental complaints In 2015, Ansaldo STS recorded The Enviroment, Health and Safety (EHS) audits performed during the 12 environmental incidents at the year are described in the next table: Karratha site (spillages that were gathered, bagged and disposed PRODUCTION OFFICE 2015 – EHS audits SITES SITES TOTAL of in a local waste disposal plant, No. of in-house environmental audits (first part) 3 14 17 without requiring notification to an external authority), one at the No. of external environment audits (second and third part) 3 14 17 Genoa site and one at the Tito Scalo site. These incidents had No. of in-house health and safety audits (first part) 6 25 31 no substantial adverse impact on No. of external health and safety audits (second the environment and no hazardous and third part) 3 12 15 substances were involved. There were no environmental complaints from outside the company. There were no violations of environmental standards detected by external control bodies and there were no environmentally critical system faults. 99 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Health and safety Health and safety Ansaldo STS has defined a Ansaldo STS’s health and safety management system integrating management system enables it to define all its processes in one central the process operating methods used to structure. This enables the achieve compliance with the ligislative organisation to operate as requirements and verify adequacy and a single unit with shared compliance. objectives and the global application of health and safety standards. The health and safety policy • increase the training and updating of all employees Ansaldo STS’s health and safety in the workplace in order to make them more aware of the risks policy is based on the application of the requirements related to their activities; of relevant standards, namely OHSAS 18001:2007, • continue developing activities to spread a culture of and other international standards, in compliance with safety with all suppliers and concerned parties. national and international regulations. Ansaldo STS develops a plan focused on continuously improving This policy is shared with all Ansaldo STS personnel health and safety standards. and all concerned parties nd via Internet Company web site and the Intranet. Ansaldo STS undertakes to: • ensure and maintain a safe and healthy workplace environment and prevent injuries, illnesses or Training damage to the health of employees, suppliers, The company promotes shares and consolidates customers and visitors; a culture of health and safety through training to • extend OHSAS 18001 certification to all Ansaldo STS increase employees’ awareness of risks and encourage sites, continuously improving the effectiveness of responsible conduct. the health and safety in the workplace management system; Accordingly, Ansaldo STS promotes training and updating • continuously improve the aforementioned activities to develop the experise of its personnel’s management systems’ performance, not only with expertise, as personnel can affect health and safety respect to the prevention of injuries and workin the workplace through their activities. Overall, at the related illnesses, but also in terms of more general sites specified in this analysis, 10,417 hours of safety employeewellbeing; training were provided in 2015, accounting for 15.5% of • adopt risk assessment criteria for all dangers total training hours. relating to work activities which, in compliance with national and international legislation, also consider best practices; PRODUCTION SITES OFFICE SITES TRAINING IN HEALTH AND SAFETY 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Total hours of health and safety training 2,492 2,644 2,293 24,094 31,858 8,124 Total hours of training 6,148 10,024 6,906 76,129 77,946 60,232 Health and safety training as % of the total 41% 26% 33,2% 32% 41% 13.5% 2014 data, especially for the office sites, are considerably higher because the company implemented an ambitious training plan in Italy during that year, in collaboration with Fondimpresa. 100 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Health and safety performance As stated in its policy, Ansaldo STS considers Overall, in 2015, there were five injuries (entailing safeguarding health and preventing any kind of workincapacity to work for more than three days), four at the related accident, injury or illness as a key value. office sites and one at the production sites (excluding injuries in transit). Health and safety performance indicators are monitored and analysed over time, and used to set objectives by There was a total of 83.5 days of temporary incapacity breaking them down by risk factor and location. due to injuries, including 79.5 at office sites and four at the production sites. Safety is therefore a strategic must for Ansaldo STS with all workers contributing every day to ensure safety Injury frequency and seriousness indicators are reported for end users. below. Accident frequency rate Accident seriousness rate PRODUCTION SITES PRODUCTION SITES 4.00 80.00 3.00 60.00 52.23 2.00 40.00 1.21 1.00 20.00 0.64 10.52 0.27 1.07 0.00 0.00 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Accident frequency rate Accident seriousness rate OFFICE SITES OFFICE SITES 4.00 12.00 10.22 3.00 9.00 2.00 6.00 1.00 3.00 1.34 2.74 0.09 0.19 0.14 0.00 0.00 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 The office sites saw a further is helpful in improving performance, procedure is a valid prevention decrease in the frequency rate due to in accordance with the health and and information management tool the smaller number of injuries (from safety policy, Ansaldo STS also tracks for statistical purposes, to identify six to four) and the considerable near misses (accidents without the causes of an accident and decrease in their seriousness, consequences that arise out of meet legal requirements relating following the substantial reduction in undesired or unexpected situations to health, safety and hygiene in the the number of days lost (-274.5). that could have put people at risk), workplace. in order to gather and analyse data • implementation of quarterly The production sites also recorded a and information and identify potential EHS reporting to monitor and decrease in the frequency rate due solutions in advance. gather main information on the to the growth in the number of hours performance of activities carried worked (with only one injury) and their Main initiatives: out in relation to the application seriousness, following the reduction • implementation of the procedure of SGS/SGA. These reports are in the number of days lost (from 33 to manage accidents and near prepared by all EHS officers at work to four). misses at global level: Ansaldo STS sites; has created a procedure to provide • safety meetings for all main sites. The data therefore show low injury information on how to correctly frequency and seriousness rates. manage events entailing injuries, In order to acquire information that accidents and near misses. This 101 The Enviroment, Health and Safety | Health and safety Health and safety committee Safety at worksites managed by involving their employees in the Ansaldo STS also holds meetings Ansaldo STS S.p.A. worksites (excluding injuries in pursuant to article 35 of Ansaldo STS S.p.A. asks its transit) and the number of days of Legislative decree no. 81/08, subcontractors for information temporary incapacity. The 2014 in which the employer (or a about the number of injuries and 2015 data are as follows: representative), the Prevention and Protection Service Manager, INJURIES No. of total injuries Total no. of days Doctor, Safety Officer and Workers’ SUBCONTRACTORS NO. OF of subcontractors’ of temporary Safety Representative participate. WORKSITES WORKSITES employees incapacity These meetings are called at least 2014 32 4 87 once a year and represent 100% 2015 60 16 326 of employees of the Italian group companies to which Legislative decree no. 81/08 applies. Prize Health and Safety Ansaldo STS won the Best Practice Award at the third conference organized by AICQ prize (Italian Association of Quality Control) with the implementation of the best practice: Safety and Security Instruction for Traveler (Florence, June 10, 2015). 102 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Costs and investments for the environment, health and safety In 2015, Ansaldo STS incurred environmental costs to treat and dispose of wastewater, to recover and dispose of waste and for environmental reclamation work. EHS investments mainly related to air-conditioning systems and heat insulation. Environmental costs (in Euros) 2013 2014 2015 Total cost for the treatment and disposal of domestic and similar wastewater 21,239 21,843 23,340 Total cost for the treatment and disposal of industrial wastewater 5,758 5,070 8,762 TOTAL WASTEWATER COSTS 26,997 26,913 32,102 Costs to produce, treat, recovery and dispose of toxic and non-toxic waste 74,537 89,696 104,733 Waste production taxes 266,977 262,362 268,417 TOTAL WASTE COSTS 341,514 352,058 373,150 Environmental reclamation costs 248,168 79,603 67,356 Costs to reclaim equipment containing CFC/HFC and functional clean-up 0 20,000 25,000 TOTAL RECLAMATION COSTS 248,168 99,603 92,356 TOTAL ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS 616,679 478,574 497,608 Safety and environment investments (in Euros) 2013 2014 2015 Investments in the environment, health and safety 925,570 339,681 550,716 103 OUR PEOPLE Human resource management policy 106 Recruitment and hiring 111 Training and development 113 Remuneration and incentive systems 122 People Care 126 Trade unions 134 In-house communications 137 Our people are essential to successfully compete in the market: honesty, loyalty, aptitude, professionalism and technical preparation are aspects in which Ansaldo STS invests and which it requires from its employees so that they can achieve their personal and the company’s growth objectives. 104 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report 94.8 % of total open95 % of employees in the competency ended contracts assessment and development plan E 322 million Economic value distributed to employees (+1.6%) Global Job System the competence management system 78,222 total hours of training for all employees, with performance assessment (average of 20.7 per employee) People Care listening, motivation, multi-cultural “50-50” funding of 50% environment, growth and of an executive course at one of development programmes, the top ten business schools in benefits, fair remuneration the world Knowledge Owners The emotional intelligence talent selection and training module launched development for key resources 105 Our people | Human resource management policy Human resource management policy Ansaldo STS offers equal opportunities beginning with expertise, abilities and knowledge, while managers the recruitment process, ensuring equal treatment and function heads must devote the utmost attention considering individual skills and abilities. to enhancing and developing the professionalism of their workers. Over the course of employment, Ansaldo STS undertakes to create and maintain the necessary In the pursuit of company objectives, workers must conditions to further expand upon employees’ be aware that ethics are of immense value to the abilities and expertise on an equal opportunity basis, company and accordingly, no conduct is tolerated through a policy based on the recognition of merits that, although it may appear in the abstract to and equal opportunities and the provision of specific benefit Ansaldo STS, is in violation of the law, current refresher and specialisation courses. This is why regulations, the organisational, management and employees are required to cultivate and draw on new control model or the code of ethics. 106 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Headcount At year end, Ansaldo STS’s headcount is 3,772, as follows20: 2015 2014 % % REGION MEN WOMEN Total of total MEN WOMEN Total of total Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 1,268 287 1,555 41.2% 1,225 265 1,490 39.2% Western Europe 653 169 822 21.8% 629 163 792 20.8% The Americas 488 184 672 17.8% 521 191 712 18.7% Asia Pacific 558 98 656 17.4% 619 117 736 19.4% China 41 26 67 1.8% 42 27 69 1.8% TOTAL 3,008 764 3,772 100.0% 3,036 763 3,799 100.0% Compared to 2014, there was a slight net decrease in the number of employees, with the total down 27 (-28 men and +1 woman), equal to 0.7 % of the workforce at the start of the year. This was the result of the increases in the number of employees in Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East (+65) and Western Europe (+30), offset by the decreases in the Asia Pacific (-80), the Americas (-40) and China (-2). The total percentage of women making up the workforce is 20.3%, showing slight growth (+0.2%). 2015 2014 % % CONTRACT TYPES MEN WOMEN Total of total MEN WOMEN Total of total Employees with open-ended contracts 2,840 735 3,575 94.8% 2,823 719 3,542 93.2% Employees with fixed-term contracts 168 29 197 5.2% 213 44 257 6.8% TOTAL 3,008 764 3,772 100.0% 3,036 763 3,799 100.0% The percentage of employees working under open-ended contracts is 94.8%, up 1.6%, demonstrates the importance that Ansaldo STS pplaces on the provision of steady employment. 2015 2014 % % OTHER CONTRACT TYPES21 MEN WOMEN Total of total MEN WOMEN Total of total Temporary staff 13 8 21 21.6% 40 19 59 31.1% Contract workers 5 0 5 5.2% 46 0 46 24.2% Work experience 30 16 46 47.4% 12 13 25 13.2% Other types 19 6 25 25.8% 37 23 60 31.6% TOTAL 67 30 97 100.0% 135 55 190 100.0% The decrease in the use of other contract types (-93 employees) was due to the reduction in temporary staff (-38), contract workers (-41) and other contract types (-35), offset by the increase in work experience trainees (+21). 20. The regions are defined as follows: • Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East: Italy and Italian branches (Denmark, Turkey, Greece, Taiwan, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Peru) and Germany • Western Europe: France and the South Korean branch, UK, Spain and Sweden • America: US and Canada • Asia Pacific: Australia, Malaysia, India and Botswana • China: China and Hong Kong 21. This information is given in accordance with an approach that more closely corresponds with Italian and European legislation. Information on nonEuropean countries has been adjusted for classification in the same types considering contractual similarities. 107 Our people | Human resource management policy The breakdown of the group’s workers by professional level is as follows: 2015 2014 % % CATEGORIES MEN WOMEN Total of total MEN WOMEN Total of total Managers 78 5 83 2.2% 79 8 87 2.3% Junior managers 381 73 454 12.0% 348 63 411 10.8% White collars 2,337 617 2,954 78.4% 2,327 626 2,953 77.7% Blue collars 212 69 281 7.4% 282 66 348 9.2% TOTAL 3,008 764 3,772 100.0% 3,036 763 3,799 100.0% The breakdown of the various categories shows a 1.2% increase in junior managers and a 0.6% increase in white collars, while the blue collar category decreased by 1.8%. Analysis by gender highlights a decrease in the percentage of women managers (from 9.2% to 6.0%) and an increase in the percentage of women blue collars (from 19.0% to 24.6%) and junior managers (from 15.3% to 16.1%) The breakdown of the group’s workers by education level is as follows: 2015 2014 % % DEGREE/DIPLOMA22 MEN WOMEN Total of total MEN WOMEN Total of total Technical high school 826 129 955 25.3% 854 48 902 23.7% Other high school 249 178 427 11.3% 196 192 388 10.2% Technical graduates 1,519 207 1,726 45.8% 1,542 252 1,794 47.2% Other graduates 302 220 522 13.8% 331 230 561 14.8% Other education 112 30 142 3.8% 113 41 154 4.1% TOTAL 3,008 764 3,772 100.0% 3,036 763 3,799 100.0% In terms of absolute value and by percentage, growth can be seen in the number of technical graduates (+53 employees, +1.6%, mainly due to the rise in the number of women, +81) and non-technical graduates (+39 employees, +1.1%) while employees with high school and lower diplomas are down (-119 employees). 2,248 employees with 42.8 years university degrees Average (59.6% of the total workforce) 22. T he relevant framework, compared with Italy’s, is: Technical Graduates – university graduates with technical degrees (mainly engineering,); Other Graduates – university graduates with non-technical degrees (humanities, for example); Technical High School – high school graduates with technical studies (electrical studies, for example); Other High School – high school graduates with non-technical studies (classical studies, for example); Other education – not finished high school (middle school degrees, for example). 108 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report The average overall age is 42.8 years (42.9 for men and 42.3 for women), slightly increased on 2014 (+0.6 years). The prior year comparison shows a decrease in the number of employees under the age of 35 (-72 employees), an increase in those aged 36 to 45 (+41 employees) and those 50 and up (+71 employees). On the other hand, employees in the 46 to 50 year age bracket are down (-67 employees). 2015 2014 % % AGE MEN WOMEN Total of total MEN WOMEN Total of total < 30 235 61 296 7.8% 281 69 350 9.2% 30-35 565 148 713 18.9% 594 137 731 19.2% 36-40 561 149 710 18.8% 527 156 683 18.0% 41-45 391 119 510 13.5% 387 109 496 13.1% 46-50 324 78 402 10.6% 378 91 469 12.3% >50 932 209 1,141 30.2% 869 201 1,070 28.2% TOTAL 3,008 764 3,772 100.0% 3,036 763 3,799 100.0% An analysis by gender shows that the steady trend in women employees compared to the men led to a rise in their percentage of the total, especially for the under 45 years of age brackets. The breakdown of the group’s workers by seniority is as follows: 2015 2014 % % COMPANY SENIORITY MEN WOMEN Total of total MEN WOMEN Total of total < 5 years 854 219 1,073 28.4% 887 225 1,112 29.3% 5-10 years 864 216 1,080 28.6% 942 241 1,183 31.1% 11-15 years 533 150 683 18.1% 442 114 556 14.6% 16-20 years 143 30 173 4.6% 139 30 169 4.4% 20-25 years 123 42 165 4.4% 146 52 198 5.2% > 25 years 491 107 598 15.9% 480 101 581 15.3% TOTAL 3,008 764 3,772 100.0% 3,036 763 3,799 100.0% The average seniority has grown slightly from 12.2 to 12.4 years (for women, it has gone from 11.8 to 12.1 years and for men, from 12.2 to 12.5). The percentage of employees who have been working in the group for 11 to 15 years has grown (+3.5%). Ansaldo STS grants part-time positions, provided that they are compatible with technical and organisational requirements. In this respect, in 2015, there was decrease of 68 employees holding part-time positions, mainly in the Asia Pacific. 2015 2014 PART-TIME out of total employees by % % geographical area MEN WOMEN Total of total MEN WOMEN Total of total Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 0 30 30 1.9% 0 30 30 2.0% Western Europe 10 45 55 6.7% 12 41 53 6.7% The Americas 3 6 9 1.3% 4 6 10 1.4% Asia Pacific 1 4 5 0.8% 48 25 73 9.9% China 0 0 0 0.0% 0 0 0 0.0% TOTAL 14 85 99 2.6% 64 102 166 4.4% 109 Our people | Human resource management policy The table below provides a breakdown of employees by function: 2015 2014 % % FUNCTION MEN WOMEN Total of total MEN WOMEN Total of total OPERATIONS 2,244 446 2,690 71.3% 2,277 458 2,735 72.0% RAILWAYS 340 87 427 11.3% 287 71 358 9.4% FREIGHT 35 13 48 1.3% 38 17 55 1.4% RAMS 157 47 204 5.4% 175 45 220 5.8% INNOVATION 21 10 31 0.8% 20 9 29 0.8% Other 211 161 372 9.9% 239 163 402 10.6% TOTAL 3,008 764 3,772 100.0% 3,036 763 3,799 100.0% In particular, compared to 2014, the number of employees in the Railway function grew by 1.9%. The following tables illustrate the employee turnover rate within the group: BALANCE 2014 Increases Decreases BALANCE 2015 TOTAL TOTAL TURNOVER 2014 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN 2015 Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 1,490 1,225 265 93 31 50 9 1,268 287 1,555 Western Europe 792 629 163 48 18 24 12 653 169 822 The Americas 712 521 191 26 11 59 18 488 184 672 Asia Pacific 736 619 117 64 18 125 37 558 98 656 China 69 42 27 4 0 5 1 41 26 67 TOTAL 3,799 3,036 763 235 78 263 77 3,008 764 3,772 BALANCE % 2014 Increases23% Decreases24% BALANCE % 2015 TURNOVER % MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 82.2% 17.8% 7.6% 11.7% 4.1% 3.4% 81.5% 18.5% Western Europe 79.4% 20.6% 7.6% 11.0% 3.8% 7.4% 79.4% 20.6% The Americas 73.0% 27.0% 5.0% 5.8% 11.3% 9.4% 72.6% 27.4% Asia Pacific 84.1% 15.9% 10.3% 15.4% 20.2% 31.6% 85.1% 14.9% China 60.9% 39.1% 9.5% 0.0% 11.9% 3.7% 61.2% 38.8% TOTAL 79.9% 20.1% 7.7% 10.2% 8.7% 10.1% 79.7% 20.3% BALANCE 2014 Increases Decreases BALANCE 2015 TURNOVER TOTAL TOTAL BY AGE BRACKET 2014 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN 2015 < 30 537 426 111 76 25 46 14 456 122 578 30-50 2,406 1,912 494 144 44 161 45 1895 493 2,388 >50 856 698 158 15 9 56 18 657 149 806 TOTAL 3,799 3,036 763 235 78 263 77 3,008 764 3,772 23. (Incoming in 2015/opening headcount) x 100. 24. (Outgoing in 2015/closing headcount) x 100. 110 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Recruitment and hiring Several years ago, Ansaldo STS The number of Ansaldo STS This gives the recruiters greater introduced sophisticated IT tools followers on LinkedIn increased freedom and faster access to to its global recruitment process from 46,698 in January 2015 candidates. They can gain a so that each recruiter had a single to 53,951 in December 2015, greater understanding of and database of CVs gathered from a showing growth of over 16%. monitor specific user targets, variety of sources. This made it Another significant figure is the narrowing their selection criteria. possible to increasingly minimise First Degrees Connection which In 2015, thanks to the connection the use of employment agencies analyses the number of links that between LinkedIn and TMS, the and head hunters. Ansaldo STS employees have recruitment database gathered made with other people outside over 23,000 CVs, setting an An agreement the company signed their company: this figure rose unprecedented record in the in 2014 with LinkedIn enabled from 194,979 in January 2015 management of job candidates for it to improve talent acquisition to 242,532 in December 2015, Ansaldo STS. strategies and achieve positive showing growth of 25%. results both in terms of CVs Universities, with which Ansaldo received, applications considered LinkedIn offers two advantages to STS has forged many partnerships, and in terms of employer branding. the company: access to millions continue to be a preferential Using the LinkedIn licence, Ansaldo of profiles and selection of the channel for the recruitment and STS has continued to renew and best candidates, building up selection of personnel. promote the company image by an increasingly extensive and publishing news, information and specialised database, as well Given the international nature commentary on a regular basis. as allowing potential candidates of the company’s activities and to learn about the company, its business, personnel, including In addition to continuously business and organisational senior management, are hired updating the company profile culture. on the basis of the specific skills and publishing news on the required for the role, regardless of development of the company The direct connection between where they are based. Moreover, business (handled by the LinkedIn and Team Management when projects require many years External Affairs Office), a new System (TMS) the internal tool of maintenance after their rollline of editorial content has been used to coordinate the selection out (operation & maintenance), published on LinkedIn in 2015. process at global level, means the Ansaldo STS prefers to hire local This content is managed on an company can automatically publish technicians and staff and may integrated basis by the LinkedIn details about open positions seek to hire an entirely local team. Narrative Team, consisting of in real time and access a wide several HR personnel from around network of candidates and CVs. the world. The aim of this project, a form of corporate story-telling, is to spread the company culture and awareness of projects to make the most of the people working for Ansaldo STS at global level, while also attracting potential candidates. 111 Our people | Recruitment and hiring Throughout the entire group, the following new contracts were signed in 2015: three managers, four junior managers, 279 white collars and 27 blue collars. 2015 2014 HIRING MEN WOMEN Total MEN WOMEN Total Managers 2 1 3 7 0 7 Junior managers 3 1 4 2 1 3 White collars 210 69 279 165 53 218 Blue collars 20 7 27 15 12 27 TOTAL 235 78 313 189 66 255 The following table illustrates the number of new hires by gender, area of geographical origin and age: Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle Western East Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China TOTAL HIRING 2015 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN < 30 34 11 19 8 4 1 19 5 0 0 76 25 30 – 39 55 20 20 6 8 2 23 7 2 0 108 35 40 – 49 4 0 6 2 8 2 16 5 2 0 36 9 > 50 0 0 3 2 6 6 6 1 0 0 15 9 TOTAL 93 31 48 18 26 11 64 18 4 0 235 78 112 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Training and development Market scenarios, which have significantly changed Ansaldo STS also offers specific training courses in the past two years, have led to Ansaldo STS facing to certain groups of employees, such as senior commercial, technological and managerial challenges managers, developing junior managers, technical that require organisational and management experts or young individuals with talent, ensuring measures capable of refocusing the company culture, paths that will help them develop in their career adjusting its professional system and updating or expand upon the skills needed to meet the expertise. responsibilities of their job. In this context, professional, managerial and In 2015, a total of 78,222 hours of training were specialised training is, and will continue to be, an provided, broken down by training category as follows: increasingly crucial lever in the development of human resources. These objectives have been met % HOURS OF TRAINING BY TYPE 2015 2014 by pursuing the continuous improvement of training Technical/specialist training 38.9% 24.1% quality standards. EHS, Quality, Ethical aspects 18.6% 22.4% Managerial training 12.5% 20.0% The underlying approach is the translation of the Mandatory/institutional training 4.6% 19.9% company’s strategic targets into consistent operating methodologies, through the development of core skills Language training 16.9% 12.1% on one hand (which are necessary to monitor work Refresher training 8.5% 1.5% activities) and, on the other hand, by emphasising the development of compliance with distinctive ethics These types of training include different targets, from a managerial standpoint. especially in the areas of regulatory compliance and specific updates for both the general company and Training is developed through projects in four main individual functions, in order to develop specialised areas: expertise. • regulatory; • language; Underscoring the important role that technical/ • managerial; specialist training plays for the group, in line with its • technical/specialised mission of significant growth, this type of training grew by over 9,000 hours compared with 2014. There was also an increase in the amount of time devoted to language training (2,600 more hours). Average annual hours of training by employee category are shown below: 2015 2014 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Managers 9.7 37.6 9.9 10.0 Junior managers 19.6 15.3 32.7 21.7 White collars 22.6 19.8 22.3 21.8 Blue collars 12.1 15.4 22.3 13.1 Average hours per year per employee 20.7 23.2 Average hours by region and gender in 2015 are illustrated below: Central and Eastern Europe and the Western AVERAGE HOURS OF Middle East Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China TOTAL TRAINING PER YEAR BY GENDER AND REGION MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN 2015 17.3 10.9 28.1 27.1 22.1 19.1 20.0 26.3 33.4 31.7 21.1 19.3 2014 29.0 22.9 31.6 23.6 14.9 14.1 15.1 14.9 17.3 16.3 24.1 19.4 113 Our people | Training and development The company invested €1.7million in training in 2015. 2015 Central and Eastern INVESTMENT IN TRAINING Europe and the Western The (in Euros) Middle East Europe Americas Asia Pacific China TOTAL Technical-specialist training 109,250 193,071 299,455 100,252 0 702,028 Managerial training 332,904 88,665 48,391 39,047 1,904 510,911 Language training 91,809 94,962 4,270 1,460 0 192,501 Refresher training 24,838 17,777 52,666 69,287 0 164,568 HSE, Quality, Ethical aspect 8,727 56,619 12,194 45,825 0 123,365 Mandatory/institutional training 397 43,908 6,115 0 50,420 TOTAL 567,925 495,002 416,976 263,849 1,904 1,745,656 Ansaldo STS also offers specific training courses to certain groups of employees, such as senior managers, growing junior managers, technical experts or young people with talent, ensuring paths that will help them develop in their career or expand upon the skills needed to meet the responsibilities of their job. 114 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report “50-50” project The guiding principles of this Participants are required to pay performance has improved as a project are self-help and selffor half of the course fee and to result of the course within one engagement, promoted by the use their holidays to attend, while year. slogan “If you bet on yourself, we the company covers the remaining back you!”. Anyone who wants to 50% as well as travel and Eight people applied to participate improve their managerial skills accommodation. This initiative, in this project in 2014 and 18 may attend a one-week executive used in very advanced contexts, applied in 2015, mainly employees course at one of the top ten hinges on self-development and from the talent pool. international business schools (as employees’ willingness to pledge per the Financial Times ranking, their personal resources (financial namely, Harvard BS, Columbia and time) to grow professionally. University, Stanford, London BS, Ansaldo STS rewards this attitude Insead, etc.). by paying the participants the 50% of the fees if they show that their 2015 Global job system update Ongoing maintenance and updating was completed sand GJS models Communication. All employees of the Global Job System (GJS) were updated for the following were informed about the updating is a key element in the strategic professional families: Project of the models in a series of alignment of business targets and Management, Engineering & meetings organised by the individual distinctive core competencies. Commissioning, Development, professional families, and the new In line with the Values to Actions Supply Planning, Operation & models have been published on the (V2A) Key Roles initiatives, focused Maintenance, Construction, company Intranet and implemented on strengthening the managerial Health-Safety & Environment, in the IT systems (SAP/ SABA). and technical competencies of Facility Management, Logistics, the project key roles, in 2015 Administration, Finance & Control the GJS model updating project and Investor Relations & External 115 Our people | Training and development Knowledge owners programme The Knowledge Owners (KO) raising the company’s competitive The aim is to create a community of programme was launched in 2014 level; and a transfer issue, which practice in which technical experts as the second part of the Ansaldo relates to the company’s aim of can share their experience and STS talent development model. transferring the core business knowactively collaborate in the transfer how currently found in a small group and building of Ansaldo STS’s In addition to identifying candidates of resources: the K.O.s. knowledge and know-how. with high managerial potential, the company also selected employees The K.O. training and development The dynamic sharing of knowledge with expertise and technical programme launched in 2014 and and ideas, not only among K.O.’s but experience that are of particular completed in 2015 covered the also between those benefiting from importance to it. following areas: their know-how through scheduled • Knowledge management and courses, has helped create a The recruitment process was based knowledge investment (in genuine community of excellence on a bottom-up nomination, leading which knowledge is a factor for to the identification of 80 knowledge production and innovation); To this end, the K.O.’s may use owners, who were then assessed • Change management and a special platform created for by a technical commission for innovation (knowledge transfer); them, called TRIBES, in which their: distinctive skills, seniority, • Learning from experience and they can share teaching materials involvement in strategic or critical knowledge sharing. for courses, leading to specific technological projects, publications, discussions in a forum set up patents, participation at conventions Knowledge owners were also for this purpose. Given the high and technical conferences as given the opportunity to take an potential for this tool’s development speakers. additional course entitled “Train the not only for project participants, trainers” with the aim of teaching but for the company as well the In 2015, K.O. programme activities them techniques for classroom objective for 2016 is to give all intensified, working towards the organisation, from how to prepare company employees access to it conclusive stage planned for spring materials to be distributed to with three different security levels. 2016. trainees to how to evaluate the effectiveness of a course after it A technical committee has been had been completed. This course asked to achieve the two main is not offered exclusively to goals: a technical issue, which knowledge owners, but is also consists of resolving an issue available to those who, at various related to K.O.’s projects and knowlevels, act as spokespeople or how, making it possible to overcome teachers with the Academy and in a series of technical obstacles while general for Ansaldo STS. 116 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Talent Project In accordance with the talent and feelings, such as the ability to identify commonalities and forge training plan, a large number not pass judgement and to think interpersonal relationships. of people participated in talent before acting. training activities. In 2015 the Between 2015 and the first few emotional intelligence training Motivation: working passionately days of 2016, the group finalised module to explore the factors of for reasons that go beyond money the micro detail of the “Financial emotional intelligence that apply or status; the tendency to strive Accounting and Value Creation” to the group’s working environment for objectives consistently and course, which has already been was launched. These include: enthusiastically. included in the training for key resources. Self-awareness: the ability to Empathy: the ability to understand recognise and understand one’s others’ emotional state and to Consequently, beginning in March mood, feelings and compulsions, treat people differently according 2016, the first edition of this including their effect on other to their emotional reactions. course will commence in Italy, people. France, Australia and the US. Social skills: the ability to Self-control: the ability to control manage relationships and network and redirect destructive impulses successfully; the ability to IRIS certification At the end of 2015, Ansaldo STS sites, promoting the company’s high STS to inform personnel of the successfully completed its first quality level in terms of supplies standard’s general requirements. campaign to apply for and receive and services. There was ad hoc training at the certification in accordance with Pittsburgh and Les Ulis sites during the International Railway Industry Support training in the classroom or the year. Standard (“IRIS”) at several of its through e-learning enabled Ansaldo 117 Our people | Training and development Performance assessment Performance assessment is a key Over the past five years, this the integrated performance/ability tool in managing the development process has been extended to assessment system so that merit of human resources. Ansaldo all group companies and has is the true enabler of professional STS has implemented a global, been consolidated in terms of development. structured and consistent process at management and development international level called Performance practices. The process now In 2012, the PDP was also Development Plan (PDP), which covers over 95% of the company’s introduced into the executive it launched in 2010, and which headcount, a significant result, as it assessment process. There are provides for the assignment of lays a sound foundation for a more some 90 executives around the performance and development objective and structured definition world who, in addition to having been targets and their assessment for all of the development paths and ways assigned challenging performance Ansaldo STS personnel. The entire in which to reward all Ansaldo STS targets in connection with business process is managed online, which employees around the world. In priorities for the current year, significantly reduces the use of particular, after the integration of the managed through the MBO incentive printed paper, and consists of three global job system, implemented in process, have been set positionphases: 2012, PDP became an even more holding targets taken from the roles • phase 1 planning: relates to complete development tool, as the and mandates outlined for each the formalised assignment of assessment of abilities and skills managerial position. targets linked to business and/or performed concurrently with the individual performance indicators performance assessment, makes it In 2014, in line with the company’s and professional development possible to define individual targets management development strategy, indicators; and growth paths that are effectively the 360° assessment process • phase 2 coaching: involves in line with expectations for the was introduced for executives the continuous monitoring of position. with respect to certain abilities performance by the employee’s considered crucial for the leadership direct supervisor and mentor; Career progress, the identification of style of Ansaldo STS’s managers. • phase 3 review: the final talent and compensation are tied to All executives participating in the assessment phase in which all the employee’s assessments are combined (self-assessment, direct supervisor’s assessment and those of other people selected from within the organisation for a more comprehensive vision of individual performance). 118 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report programme were able to receive teams assessed employees. During each member of their team and feedback from managers, peers and the year, 480 Ansaldo STS resources assess them on it. This strong direct colleagues and to identify in around the world participated in this commitment allowed: a structured way their strengths and project and were given the chance to • all team members to be more areas for improvement. identify the development objectives responsibly engaged in attaining of the 2015 PDP plan in a more the project objectives; The use of this more structured, structured manner. • the more consistent matching challenging approach in the of functional objectives with the assessment of managers is Over the past two years and in line project objectives, thanks to the considered one of the tools to with the empowerment programmes, approach shared by the project strengthen a managerial culture the PDP has been fine-tuned further managers and unit heads; more focused on putting into so that as well as the functional • the teams to be more closely practice the soft skills that the heads being assessed project involved in the shared objectives. company values, such as team spirit, managers (PMs) and project people management skills, change engineers (PEs) are also. These management skills and international employees were given the task of cooperation. By including managers managing their team’s output and in the PDP-based assessment and defining, monitoring and assessing development process, the system is project objectives. This strong now consistent throughout all levels commitment asked of the project of the organisation. teams (PMs and PEs) is designed to enhance the independence, In 2015, the 360° process was effectiveness and leadership of improved further with respect to the these key teams. IT system, and it was also extended to talents and middle managers Project managers were required worldwide. In addition, another three to participate in the annual specific competencies were added, PDP process to improve the for a total of seven key competencies effectiveness of their teams. Their on which managers, peers and role was to assign objectives to 119 Our people | Training and development Internationalisation and multiculturalism A global company such as Ansaldo STS must internationalisation and multi-culturalism rose by 5% constantly maintain a high level of internationalisation in 2015 to 603. and encourage its personnel to adopt a multicultural approach, and in 2015 the management Ansaldo STS has strengthened its presence in the process for international personnel assignments was geographical areas already considered strategic, consolidated. such as Denmark and Turkey, and has opened a new establishment in Peru. The number of employees The number of people involved in training sessions on abroad is shown in the following table: 2015 Original region Workforce abroad Destination countries 8 (Peru), 10 (Denmark), 1 (Russia), 5 (Australia), 9 (Turkey), 2 (UAE), Central and Eastern Europe and 52 3 (Taiwan), 3 (India), 3 (Saudi Arabia), 3 (US), 3 (France), the Middle East 3 (Greece), 2 (Sweden) Western Europe 7 1 (UAE), 1 (Taiwan), 1 (Sweden), 1 (Turkey), 1 (Peru), 2 (Morocco) The Americas 3 1 (Denmark), 1 (Korea), 1 (Peru) Asia Pacific 2 1 (France), 1 (Italy) China 2 2 (Italy) TOTAL 66 The permanent presence of non-local personnel in certain group companies reflects the internationalisation process that Ansaldo STS is pursuing. 2014 Total Local non-local Region personnel Non-local personnel personnel Albania 2, Argentina 1, Bosnia 1, Canada 1, Colombia 3, Ecuador 1 , Egitto 4, Francia 2, Central and Eastern Germania 1, Grecia 1, India 4, Irlanda 1, Giordania 3, Libano 1, Lituania 1, Malesia 1, Europe and the Middle 1,506 49 Moldavia 1, Marocco 1, Pakistan 4, Romania 3, Spagna 3, Sudan 1, Svezia 1, Siria 1, East Taiwan 1, Tunisia 2, Emirati Arabi Uniti 1, Gran Bretagna 1, Yemen 1 Algeria 2, America 1, Belgio 2, Camerun 3, China 6, Congo 1, Danimarca 1, Gabon 1, Germania 1, Guinea 1, Italia 9, Costa D’Avorio 1, Corea 2, Libano 2, Western Europe 771 51 Marocco 4, Portogallo 5, Russia 2, Romania 1, Senegal 1, Sud Africa 1, Spagna 1, Tunisia 2, Turchia 1 Bielorussia 1, Gran Bretagna 2, Canada 1, Cina 4, Francia 2, Grecia 1, India 5, The Americas 610 Irlanda 1, Italia 12, Kazakistan 1, Corea 3, Malesia 1, Messico 2, Moldavia 1, 62 Pakistan 1, Russia 3, Samoa 1, Ucraina 19, Venezuela 1 America 1, Cina 3, Colombia 1, Germania 3, Francia 4, Giamaica 1, Iran 2, Irlanda 4, Asia Pacific 580 Italia 17, Kenia 1, Nepal 1, Pakistan 3, Filippine 4, Singapore 1, Sud Africa 2, 76 Srilanka 5, Taiwan 1, Tailandia 3, Gran Bretagna 17, Vietnam 1, Zimbabwe 1 China 64 Italia 1, Francia 1, Malaysia 1 3 TOTAL 3,531 241 120 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Some of the changes introduced in recent years, • the maintenance of operating tools to support such as those aimed at personnel development and both the use of the company Intranet, to share engagement abroad, were immediately considered in the information and company practices, and the updates of the group’s international mobility guidebook. disclosure of internal communications using The updating process also entailed substantially advanced, widespread computer and videoimproving strictly “specialised” issues, such as tax telephone technologies; neutralisation policies and compensation & benefits for • continuing integrated activities with Health & Safety ex-patriot employees. and Security to ensure safe work conditions abroad; • ongoing cooperation with the Administration The international mobility process is increasingly geared department with respect to taxes and accounting. towards integration, in which, depending on the relevant issues, other HR personnel and external experts are involved. In this respect, some of the steps taken in recent years and reinforced in 2015, include: • preliminary ad hoc meetings; • special assessments and training, including in the new language; • constant monitoring of immigration issues, which are always arising around the world and differ widely from one country to the next to provide the best support to both seconded employees and directly hired or relocated employees as they begin their experience abroad; • the use of IT, assessment and training tools to encourage greater awareness of multi-culturalism and assist the overcoming of any cultural/conduct barriers, while respecting each person’s values (home and host); • focus on governing the integration process in the various countries, beginning with the management of job opportunities on a global scale; • a system that monitors connections between development of personnel and international experiences, particularly recurring or long-term mobility experiences; • commitment to governing the relationship between performance during an international experience and remuneration policies, with the use of performancebased bonuses; • focus on repatriation and retention; • the development of constructive relationships between HR specialists to support the internationalisation process, thereby strengthening the establishment of an HR International Mobility Team; 121 Our people | Remuneration and incentive systems Remuneration and incentive systems Ansaldo STS manages labour relations with its FRANCE employees in compliance with legislation in the various There are national labour agreements with trade countries in which it operates. Below is a brief summary unions (“Convention Collective”) and agreements at of the main legislation/regulations. company level. The “Convention Collective” establishes minimum wages for each category and the main terms of employment (responsibility levels, trial periods, required ITALY notice, etc.). The employment terms set forth in individual Employment is governed by the Constitution, Italian contracts may be more favourable to employees but Civil Code and special laws, as well as by the not less favourable than those defined under general national labour agreements and EU laws. Ansaldo labour legislation. In addition, French law requires annual STS applies the national labour agreement for the negotiations with the trade unions on remuneration, metal-mechanic industry and the national labour contractual terms, equal opportunities with respect to agreement for managers of companies that produce gender, the disabled, training and development. French goods and services, which establish minimum law also enforces respect for human rights, equal standard remunerative/regulatory terms for all opportunities, child labour restrictions, freedom of contractual categories. In addition, Ansaldo STS association and the protection of privacy. applies supplementary company agreements (excluding managers), which it agrees with the trade unions. These agreements provide for more favourable terms for SPAIN employees. Spain also has national labour agreements with trade unions that are applicable to all workers at national level and at regional level as well. The employment UNITED STATES terms set forth in individual contracts may be more There are no national labour agreements governing favourable to employees but not less favourable employment. Each employee individually negotiates the than those defined under general labour legislation. terms of employment. However, there are supervisory Spanish law is particularly specific with respect to and protection bodies: that already established by the national constitution • Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOCis in terms of equal opportunities and non-discrimination the federal commission ensures equal opportunities in the workplace, freedom of association, trade union in labour (no discrimination on the basis of religion, representation, the protection against child labour and sex, age, disability, etc.); maternity benefits, with specific benefits for working • Fair Labor Standard Act (FLSA) is a federal act that mothers. sets the standard for child labour, overtime and minimum wages. These aspects are also governed by each individual state, in accordance with their specific requirements. All labour regulations are reported to employees by posters hung in visible areas. 122 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report AUSTRALIA INDIA, MALAYSIA, BOTSWANA Remuneration and incentives are governed by national All employment agreements are individual. However, employment standards (NES) relating to minimum the above procedures provide for the application of wages, work hours and general terms of employment. minimum standards at group level in these countries. Employees whose work is assessed using the global Accordingly, tools such as market benchmarks and job system and who receive Hay grades below 12 salary reviews are also applied in these countries, are remunerated in line with the national labour using the same criteria as that for Australia. Ansaldo agreement. This agreement, which was ratified by STS therefore ensures its employees receive the Italian labour court, provides for annual wage remuneration and benefits that are comparable adjustments when they are negotiated (currently with those offered by the best companies in these 4%). In the second half of 2012, a new company countries. agreement (2013-2015) was negotiated with the trade unions. CHINA This agreement will introduce a new remuneration There are no national labour agreements. Each employee and classification system based on abilities and in individually negotiates the terms of employment. In line with the master agreement for national industry. China, there is the Labour Law of the People’s Republic In addition to that provided for by the agreement, of China and the Constitution of the PR of China, which remuneration will be increased on the basis of ensure the freedom of association, equal opportunities, individual performance defined in the annual revision etc.. In October 2011, the Chinese government published process. new labour market regulations which will also apply to foreigners working in China (including, for example, the introduction of social security contributions). 123 Our people | Remuneration and incentive systems Fair remuneration Ansaldo STS manages employment Ansaldo STS can establish higher of the consistency between the relationships with its employees in levels of remuneration than general responsibilities and remuneration, accordance with the laws in place market brackets for positions without distinguishing by country, in the various countries where that are particularly critical and sex, culture, etc., in accordance it operates. It also periodically important or to limit the risk of with the company’s values, which weights the most significant employees leaving the company, protect and promote the equal positions in the organisation with a resulting loss of expertise. treatment of people. with the support of a company specialised in this field and Since 2013, in addition to the The following table illustrates compares the remuneration of the periodic assessments of positions, gross average remuneration of the employees holding such positions Ansaldo STS has extended the Ansaldo STS group broken down by on a weighted basis, against weighting to lower levels of its category and gender: the market benchmarks. If the organisation as well, using the remuneration is not in line with results of the GJS project, which the market (and, obviously, if the involved approximately 3,000 of employees have received positive the company’s personnel. This performance assessments), their made it possible to create a tool remuneration is adjusted. useful in the global assessment Central and Eastern Europe and the Western Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China (Renminbi Middle East (€’000) (€’000) (US$’000) (AUS$’000) thousands) 2015 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Managers 122 86 110 0 189 140 213 0 0 0 Junior managers 55 52 83 69 119 116 166 135 610 440 White collars 38 36 48 44 92 73 118 88 375 248 Blue collars 28 28 25 23 44 37 90 61 0 0 The following table illustrates the ratio of women’s gross average remuneration compared to men’s, broken down by category and region: Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China 2015 MEN/WOMEN MEN/WOMEN MEN/WOMEN MEN/WOMEN MEN/WOMEN Managers 70% 0% 0% 0% 0% Junior managers 95% 83% 97% 81% 72% White collars 95% 92% 79% 75% 66% Blue collars 100% 92% 85% 68% 0% The following table illustrates the ratio of the highest paid The ratio of entry-level remuneration and the minimum employees’ remuneration to the median remuneration of legal remuneration for women and men is shown in the all other employees in the different regions: following table: HIGHEST REMUNERATION AS A RATIO RATIO OF ENTRY-LEVEL REMUNERATION AND TO MEDIAN REMUNERATION 2015 2014 THE MINIMUM LEGAL REMUNERATION 2015 2014 Central and Eastern Europe and the Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East 7.3 5.2 Middle East 1.1 1.1 Western Europe 2.9 4.1 Western Europe (FRANCE) 1.0 1.0 The Americas 3.4 3.4 The Americas 1.8 1.8 Asia Pacific 2.1 2.4 Asia Pacific 1.0 1.0 China 2.9 3.0 China 1.0 1.0 124 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Performance-based incentive systems Performance-based incentive resolution of the company’s Board the person can be replaced, systems are mainly linked to the of Directors. It meets regularly and appointed to other positions, etc. management by objectives (MBO) the Head of Human Resources process or specific performance participates in the meetings. The Fixed and variable incentive systems indicators (KPI) for strategic projects committee’s activities include: are therefore defined in line with entailing bonuses upon their • proposing the financial/regulatory the position held, considering the successful conclusion. Managers, package for the CEO and key specific position and the individual certain junior managers in key managers. To this end, the manager’s positioning in this matrix. positions for the business and committee relies on market Similar assessments are performed strategic project team personnel studies performed by specialised for people who are eligible for the are included in these programmes. companies which provide stock grant plan (medium/long-term The bonuses, which are calculated appropriate benchmarking; plan). as a percentage of gross annual • evaluating the CEO’s proposals remuneration, vary depending on the on general remuneration and The following table compares the responsibilities held. incentive criteria for company number of managers included in management. the incentive system at the end of Over the past few years, in keeping 2015: with company strategies, the MBO The committee has also analysed programme has been integrated and approved a document, which within one single system that is is usually updated each year, increasingly electronic with the prepared by Human Resources, production of less paper. positioning all company management in a performance/ In accordance with regulations for potential matrix in order to listed companies, Ansaldo STS has consider, for the purposes of a remuneration committee set up by determining remuneration, whether Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China 2015 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN STOCK GRANTS 27 1 4 0 3 0 3 0 0 0 CASH (long-term) 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 125 Our people | People Care People Care The “People Care” concept is an extensive one for Flexible schedules, agreements with entertainment and Ansaldo STS and applies to employees’ well-being sports centres, benefits like health insurance, family as both professionals and individuals. The basic open days, employee scholarships and celebrations of concept is linked to the “Total Reward” strategy, based successful projects are some of the tools used. on tangibles and intangibles, to improve personal satisfaction. It is no coincidence that “People” is one of the company’s five values in its identity: people are at the very heart of the organisation, and this demonstrates the company’s focus on making the work place an environment where they can gain experience, develop competencies, forge relationships and find motivation continuously. Ansaldo STS’s focus on people can be first seen in the way it guarantees a comfortable and motivational work environment by actively supporting, through its corporate processes, relationships between managers and employees and relationships between colleagues. Furthermore, there are various support services available in different countries for employees and, in some cases, their families as well. 126 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Employee initiatives Ansaldo STS follows an extensive policy to manage cultural customs in their respective countries. Below initiatives that support employees. This policy includes is a list and brief description of the main benefits and a series of benefits allocated and used on the basis of initiatives supporting employees under the company’s an employee’s professional position and the social and policy. Company health insurance Company accident insurance Health checks Ansaldo STS Italy offers its Ansaldo STS Italy offers its Ansaldo STS Italy offers employees a supplementary employees insurance for work managers the chance to have health insurance. These and non-work related accidents an annual medical check-up policies cover a wide range of under an accident insurance with the full cost covered by the medical needs (e.g. specialist policy covering accidents company. In China, these checkexaminations, hospitalisation, both in the workplace and ups are offered to all employees, medical services, etc.) and vary outside the workplace, for all while there is no such benefit for according to each employee’s employees, seven days a week, employees in Australia, France or professional position (senior 24 hours a day. The cost of the US. In Spain, annual medical and junior managers, white this policy, which covers all check-ups are legally required for and blue collars have different employees, is fully covered by all employees. limits of indemnity). Employees the company. The same policy may decide whether to take is offered in France, Australia out these additional policies. and China to all white collars. Should they decide to do so, a It is not offered in the US, as International travel insurance, monthly contribution is withheld this kind of cover is included e.g.: Europe Ass from their payslips to cover part in the company life insurance In Italy, France, Australia and of the cost, while the company policy. the US, Ansaldo STS offers bears the residual amount. an accident insurance policy France has a supplementary covering any accidents or first health insurance scheme which aid and medical care (as well cover employees and their family, as luggage and personal item Salary continuance insurance which is mandatory by a company coverage) to employees working Ansaldo STS Australia offers agreement. abroad (either on a business employees who work more trip or under secondment). than 15 hours per week Ansaldo STS Australia has The costs of this policy are salary continuance insurance. established Corporate fully covered by the company. The policy provides for the Membership with Medibank Ansaldo STS China has also assignment of 75% of their Private and RT Health (a fund begun offering this policy. income for a maximum of two created in Australia to specifically years if the employee is unable support the Transportation to work due to illness or injury. Industry, enabling Ansaldo STS Australia employees to access a top class, comprehensive Health fund at very competitive rates Life insurance in addition to a range of special Ansaldo STS offers its employees a life insurance policy and fully benefits on joining, including covers the costs of this policy. This policy is offered to Ansaldo waiver of waiting periods and gift STS managers in Italy and Spain, and to managers and all fullvouchers. time employees in the US (company life insurance, accidental death & dismemberment & LTD insurance). It is also offered to all employees in France who share the cost with the company. 127 Our people | People Care Company cars Corporate credit cards Ansaldo STS offers employees company cars (with a policy that is similar Ansaldo STS Italy offers to a lease). The car may also be used for personal reasons, i.e. it may be employees the possibility to used by employees, as well as by their family members or close friends, obtain corporate credit cards after notifying the company. Employees pay a monthly contribution and the linked to the employee’s company pays the remaining amount. In Italy, the company has signed an bank account at special agreement so that all employees can purchase the company cars when terms agreed by Ansaldo they are replaced at advantageous prices. Company cars may be assigned STS and the bank. The credit to managers and junior managers with high profiles in Italy and Spain, and cards available to Ansaldo to Ansaldo STS managers in the US. They are also offered in France and STS employees are Visa China. In Australia, company cars are assigned to employees as a tool of and American Express. The trade when the vehicle is necessary for the fulfilment of the employee’s costs of Visa cards are fully duties. Managers and executives are rewarded with a car allowance to covered by the company, assist them with the maintenance of their personal transport. whereas employees contribute to a small portion of the costs charged by American Express. Ansaldo STS also Company housing Professional membership offers its Italian employees Ansaldo STS offers housing allowance the possibility to open current to employees seconded in the Ansaldo STS offers its accounts under special medium to long-term. The cost employees the possibility to terms with selected banks. of the housing is fully covered by join professional associations Furthermore, bank branches the company. (e.g. the register of engineers) and ATMs are located at some and fully covers registration of the main offices of Ansaldo costs. This benefit is STS, making it easier and offered to Ansaldo STS more efficient for employees Fuel allowance Italy managers, all US and to make use of main banking Ansaldo STS offers employees a Australian employees, but not services. These arrangements fuel allowance up to an annual Ansaldo STS France (where are also in place in the US, limit, which may be used for car the benefits are granted on but not China. In Spain, France refuelling. The company covers a case-by-case basis). In and Australia, credit cards are the cost of this benefit, which China, the company refunds linked to the employees’ bank may be assigned to managers in engineers and managers for accounts and only offered to Italy. It is also offered in France the registration costs if they people who travel frequently for but not in Australia, Spain, the have been approved by HR. In work to cover expense notes. US or China. Italy, the company is carrying out a project with the order of engineers to organise training courses at its sites so employees can earn the credits needed for registration. 128 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Travel Tracker: travel safe Canteen and break area service Ansaldo STS’s expansion uploaded to the TT database. Ansaldo STS Italy, France and in markets and its current •A  utomated Travel Advisory US provide a canteen service organisational model require (ATA): when tickets are booked at all main offices (e.g.: Genoa, the presence of its personnel in for the selected destinations, Pittsburgh, Les Ulis, Tito, etc.). many different countries, which in accordance with parameters In Italy, employees contribute often present challenging safety established by Ansaldo to the canteen costs through conditions and weak healthcare STS, travellers receive an deductions in payslips, whereas and welfare systems. To mitigate automated travel advisory on in the other countries, they pay critical issues arising from travel the destination country via directly when using the canteen and relocation abroadAnsaldo e-mail, containing information services. This service is provided STS is implementing a system on public and personal under special terms which at all sites to ensure adequate safety, health conditions, are regulated by agreements protection from outside events. driving, vaccinations and between Ansaldo STS and the In this context, in order to illnesses, food and water companies that operate the prevent and remedy any issues, recommendations, local culture canteens. the company is equipped with and conduct in the workplace, a tool called the “Travel Tracker holidays and demographics. (TT)”, provided by International SOS, which makes it possible Furthermore, employees may Recreation centres to track planned travel in real register with International SOS Ansaldo STS Italy employees time. As soon as an employee (www.internationalsos.com), a have set up recreation centres, confirms his or her travel service that provides alerts on referred to as “CRAL”. These booking through the Ansaldo countries of interest selected are a form of free association STS travel agency, International at the time of registration. The for workers and are structured SOS gathers the information International SOS Alarm Centre as separate entities from the and enables company personnel Paris, a call centre, is available company. Employees who join responsible for this activity to for any reason. the CRALs pay a fee deducted quickly identify those employees from their payslip. The company in areas with high health and Ansaldo STS Italy employees also makes a contribution. safety risks. International SOS, have set up recreation centres, working in collaboration with referred to as “CRAL”. These CRAL members may participate Ansaldo STS, manages this are a form of free association in a number of activities (sports database. Additional TT services of workers and are structured or other) and take advantage of include: as separate entities from the discounts at partnering shops • Personal Travel Locator company. Employees who join (bookshops, opticians, etc.). (PTL): personnel travelling for the CRALs pay a fee deducted No such agreements are in place business can input their own from their payslip. CRAL in France, the US or Australia. and their family members’ members may participate in a travel plans which have number of activities (sports or not been booked using the other) and take advantage of company travel agency or discounts at partnering shops while they are on long-term (bookshops, opticians, etc.). No secondment and the travel such agreements are in place in details are automatically France, the US or Australia. 129 Our people | People Care Pension plan Ansaldo STS manages pension plans with its employees in accordance with the laws in place in the various countries where it operates. Changes in defined benefit plans and post-employment benefits are shown below: Postemployment Defined benefits benefit plans Value at 31 December 2014 20,120 14,555 Cost (of the service and interest) 613 934 Contributions paid (2,258) (176) Other changes 6 Actuarial gains recognised in equity (527) (112) Value at 31 December 201525 17,948 15,207 The average term of post-employment benefits is 12 years while that of the other defined benefits is 18 years. ITALY In Italy, Ansaldo STS offers its employees a pension fund through the “Cometa” Fund, the National Supplementary Pension Fund for workers in the “Metalmechanical and plant installation industry”, set up to employees calculated as a percentage of annual fixed provide workers in this industry with greater pension remuneration defined by the Australian Taxation Office. coverage than that offered by the mandatory social The company makes pension fund payments directly to security plan. When they join the Cometa fund, workers the providers selected by employees. The percentage sign the application form and create an individual has increased since July 2014 from 9.25% to 9.5%. position, transferring employees’ leaving entitlement, Employees are encouraged to increase the contributions an individual entitlement required by Legislative decree to their pension funds, including with incentives in no. 252/2005, to which the employer is required to add the form of government grants. Temporary residents a contribution under the aforementioned decree. When who have left Australia may request payment of their they retire, employees may choose how to receive the superannuation. Cometa annuity: • immediate life annuity: i.e., immediate payment of a INDIA life annuity for the policyholder’s entire life; Pension fund: contributions to the pension fund • immediate certain annuity and life annuity: i.e., are equal to 12% of the base remuneration of the immediate payment of certain annuity for five or ten employee to which a further 12% must be added, paid years, followed by a life annuity until death; by Ansaldo STS. These contributions are deposited in • immediate reversible annuity: i.e., immediate payment the employees’ account with the relevant pension fund of a life annuity until death, subsequently reversible and returned to the employee upon retirement, through (60% or 100%) to another person until death. monthly pension payments, plus accrued interest. The 15% of employees’ base remuneration is deposited AUSTRALIA with the Life Insurance Corporation of India through the In Australia, the pension fund is referred to as Superannuation Trust Fund. superannuation, a sum of money set aside during the life of an employee, from the beginning of employment, MALAYSIA to cover the future pension. Ansaldo STS pays In Malaysia, pension plans are offered through an contributions to the pension funds on behalf of its employee pension fund (EPF) set up with employees’ 25. T he main actuarial assumptions used are as follows. post-employment benefits discount rate 1.89%, turnover rate 2.09% 5.69%, defined benefit plans discount rate 1.9%, salary increase rate 2.5%, turnover rate 0.91% 3.26%. 130 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report contributions deducted from their of the employees and employers This system is also used for monthly remuneration (at least 11%) through basic systems (CNAVTS) foreigners legally eligible to work in and the employer’s contributions and complementary combinations China since January 2014. Foreign (at least 12%). Both portions are (AGIRC ARCCO). employees are required to contribute accrued over the term of service of to the pension plan if they are each employee. This system was not US taxpayers in China. Furthermore, affected by the introduction of the Ansaldo STS USA offers a foreign workers may withdraw their minimum retirement age, because retirement benefit plan for which contributions when they leave the workers can contribute until the workers are directly responsible country. However, the employee’s maximum age of 70. Even foreigners for managing their investments portion may be withdrawn if the working in Malaysia may contribute in the plan. Ansaldo STS does contribution was paid less than to the fund on a voluntary basis, but not have a segregated account to ten years earlier and if the foreign the employer’s minimum obligation guarantee the related funds. For worker has not yet reached the is for only 5 Renminbi per month, each employee, 2% is deducted retirement age (60 years for men unless it decides otherwise. In this from remuneration regardless of and 55 for women). respect, foreigners may revoke their whether they contribute to any of entire contribution upon termination the pension funds. Furthermore, if of employment and their return to the employees defer any payments, their home country. Ansaldo STS pays 100% of the first US$250 and 50% of the subsequent SPAIN 6% of the deferral. In Spain, all employees have a supplementary pension fund CHINA called “Plan de Previsión Social Ansaldo STS offers its employees Empresarial” (PPSE), which is the in China pension plan benefits same as normal pension funds and through the central government’s is subject to Spanish law. This is an National Social Security Fund important social benefit and reflects (NSSF), whereby employees pay the company’s decision to take care contributions (maximum of 8% of the of its employees. Contributions to limit set by the government), as well the PPSE are paid by the company as the company (maximum of 20% only and not by employees. The of the limit set by the government). amount of the contributions is Both contributions are deposited established in a way that ensures in the social security fund of each a minimum contribution for all registered employee and accumulate employees, also considering each on a monthly basis. employee’s base remuneration. For example, in 2012, the annual contribution paid by Ansaldo STS Spain to the PPSE was equal to €44,362. FRANCE France has various pension systems depending on the classification of workers in the national labour agreement. There is nothing specific for Ansaldo STS France. In the French system, pension benefits are funded directly with the contributions 131 Our people | People Care Protected worker categories The policies for the inclusion of disabled people position, by analysing positions, forms of support, in the headcount fall within the framework of a positive actions and solutions to issues related to programme defined at European level with respect to environments, tools and interpersonal relations in the social inclusion policies. In Italy, the integration of daily place of work and contact”. disabled citizens or citizens belonging to protected categories is subject to Law no. 68 of 12 March Compliance with the provisions of Law no. 68/99 1999, which first recognised the dignity and social entails the obligation for companies to hire a specific value of the disabled by effectively including them in percentage determined in the same law of personnel the labour market. Having abandoned the concept of in protected worker categories. In Italy, in particular, the “mandatory” hiring practices that were provided the percentage of disabled workers required by law for by the previous law (Law no. 482/1968), Law for Ansaldo STS S.p.A. is 7%. In 2015, Ansaldo STS no. 68/99 introduced the key concept of “targeted” reached agreements with the labour centres for the employment, defined in article 2 as “a set of hiring of people in protected worker categories. technical and support tools which make it possible to adequately assess disabled people in their work The group expects to hire disabled workers in 2016. abilities and to recruit them for the most suitable Central and Western Europe and the Middle East Western Europe 2015* MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN People with disabilities 48 18 4 7 % of total workforce 3.79% 6.27% 0.61% 4.14% * T his figure is not available for Asia Pacific, and Ansaldo STS has not hired any disabled people in China. Information on the disabled cannot be gathered in the US. Parental leave Ansaldo STS acknowledges the need parental leave in accordance with compared to 51 (43 women and for its employees to balance family Italian law. eight men), who had taken parental life with their work commitments leave in the previous year. and offers flexible hours and In 2015, 42 employees used part-time to parents with children parental leave (38 women and four under 13 or family members with men) and 33 returned from parental disabilities. Ansaldo STS also grants leave (30 women and three man), Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China TOTAL 2015 PARENTAL LEAVE MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN No. of employees entitled to parental leave 1,268 287 653 169 462 173 350 65 41 26 2,774 720 No. of employees who took parental leave 1 30 36 21 0 3 3 4 0 1 40 59 No. of employees who returned to work after their period of leave 0 24 35 12 0 3 3 3 0 0 38 42 No. of employees who returned to work after parental leave and who were still employed 12 months after returning to work 0 16 38 18 0 2 1 1 0 0 39 37 132 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China TOTAL 2014 PARENTAL LEAVE MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN No. of employees who have the right to parental leave 1,225 265 629 163 488 168 414 80 40 27 2,796 703 No. of employees who took parental leave 1 28 43 22 1 4 3 9 3 2 51 65 No. of employees who returned to work after their period of leave 0 16 39 19 1 3 3 4 3 1 46 43 No. of employees who returned to work after parental leave and who were still employed 12 months after returning to work 0 16 25 14 1 3 0 1 0 0 26 34 The return rate and the rate of people who, 12 months after they returned were still employees (job maintenance rate) are shown in the table above: Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe The Americas Asia Pacific China Total RATES MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Return rate 80% 97% 57% 100% 100% 75% 95% 71% Job maintenance rate 100% 97% 95% 67% 33% 25% 14% 79% 133 Our people | Trade unions Trade unions The relaxed relationship that Ansaldo STS maintains with its employees is reflected in an extremely low rate of trade union disputes. This context often leads to the resolution of any issues with employees internally, with scarce recourse to intervention by trade unions, which, in any case, act in an environment of general cooperation. The only strikes declared have been due to general political/trade union issues, which have nothing to do with the company. ITALY Ansaldo STS’s system for trade 2. NATIONAL COORDINATION issues pertaining to the individual unions is based on two levels of The national coordination for sites. participation, given the fact that the FIM, FIOM and UILM trade the company has various operating unions at the local representation In Italy, data on trade unions may sites scattered throughout Italy and units was established to ensure be gathered from the trade union abroad: the trade unions are adequately dues deducted from payslips. informed of issues relating to There is no such deduction abroad 1. STRATEGIC OBSERVATION technological, organisational and therefore Ansaldo STS is In order to analyse the market and production changes, not able to record any specific scenario and the competitive horizontal mobility, investment data. Ansaldo STS employees positioning of the business areas of and employment programmes, have joined the following trade Ansaldo STS, a strategic observatory professional training projects unions: FIOM-CGIL (with nine has been established, made up of and production decentralisation union delegates), FIM-CISL (with six members selected by the trade policies. The national coordination, eight union delegates), UILM-UIL unions (three national secretaries which entails the participation (with four union delegates) and and three national coordination of a maximum of 15 trade union Metalmeccanici (no delegates). In members), along with the company’s representatives in the local December 2015, the percentage top management. The observatory representation units of the of workers who had joined a trade meets annually (usually within the different company offices, is a union was just under 33.1% of first quarter), and within the context of party at national level for the the total headcount, while 100% its activities, company management negotiation of integrative level 2 of the trade union members can provides appropriate information contracts and any restructuring or be broken down as follows: FIOM: on company strategies, the main reorganisation processes. Finally, 45.9%, FIM: 25.4%, UILM: 28.7%. organisational changes and the trend a trade union relationship system in employment. The observatory may is in place with the individual local also meet at the request of one of trade union representation units the members if, during the year, any at the production sites, for specific significant changes occur with respect to the issues discussed in the annual meetings. 134 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report SPAIN regulations and collective agreements. unions, organising within the Trade unions relationships at Employees may also, either individually company and negotiating company Ansaldo STS Spain are calm and or with the assistance of delegates, agreements. friendly. To express their opinions, submit their requests directly to workers may contact, either directly Human Resources. The French trade or through the personnel delegates, union system is defined by specific and AUSTRALIA Human Resources, thereby enriching extensive regulations, the key points of Relationships with trade unions in the direct relationship between the which are the following: Australia were extremely positive company and its employees. The • staff representatives are elected in the last year, with substantial system of trade union relationships every three years by employees. discussion in preparation of the new at Ansaldo STS Spain is based on Their role is to manage individual national three-year agreement. the following: or collective complaints related to • STRATEGIC LINES information on remuneration, work conditions, the A key result of this process has corporate trends, organisational application of the labour law, health been greater communication with changes and, in short, company and safety; employees, generating more feedback procedures and policies are • monthly meetings with employers and participation in improvements, provided by Ansaldo STS and who are required to respond to all in a positive environment in which consequently adopted and applied requests; expectations are listened to. also in Spain; • a works council is elected every • NATIONAL COORDINATION the three years by employees. It is There were no disputes with trade structure of Ansaldo STS Spain informed and consulted on issues unions, strikes or complaints to includes personnel delegates who related to the organisation (new the labour court during the year. represent the CC.OO and UGT trade organisations, new technologies, Ansaldo STS’s ongoing commitment unions (which are the largest trade etc.), employment (staff, temporary to involving its employees through unions in Spain). In Spain, the trade workers, subcontracts, work-loads, active communication and discussion union meetings are held very often etc.), company strategies, business mechanisms is expected to prevent with all personnel representatives to and related results, training, health these issues from arising in the future reach general agreements. and safety; as well. • monthly meetings with the legal representative of the company; FRANCE • committees on training, welfare Each month, in France, personnel benefits, etc.; delegates may present individual or • trade union delegates are collective issues to their employers, in appointed by the trade unions. relation to the application of the law, Their job is to represent the trade Personnel covered by national labour agreements The total number of employees covered by national labour agreements, where this type of trade union negotiation is applicable, is shown below: Central and Eastern Europe and the Middle East Western Europe Asia Pacific 2015 MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN Managers 55 4 11 0 Junior managers 270 49 59 11 0 0 White collars 905 228 500 135 0 0 Blue collars 38 6 67 22 13 0 TOTAL 1,268 287 637 168 13 0 The percentage of employees covered by national fair work environment with respect to the market. The labour agreements in Central and Eastern Europe and data are not meaningful for the Americas and China the Middle East is 100%, while in Western Europe it as there are no national labour agreements in these is 98%. The percentage is minimal in the Asia Pacific areas. due to Ansaldo STS’s ongoing efforts to invest in a 135 Our people | Trade unions Types of agreements an ongoing and continuously evolving process that At group level, Ansaldo STS has reached formal meets the similarly ongoing and continuously evolving agreements with the trade unions in the various countries scenario in markets where Ansaldo STS operates. concerned, as shown in the table. In Central Europe and In the event of particularly significant organisational Western Europe, the agreements relate to, inter alia, work changes, specific communications initiatives target hours, remuneration and health and safety conditions in broad categories of employees to explain the reasons the workplace. In Australia, the types of agreements are for the changes. Furthermore, in Italy, the currently negotiated with the unions, while in Malaysia, there are applicable national labour agreement provides for no formal agreements and employees must only comply a specific meeting to inform the trade unions of with the Employment Act of 1955 (which establishes that decisions that have a material impact on labour the number of hours worked may not exceed 48) and organisation. A similar procedure is provided for in specific Acts enacted by the government with respect to France, requiring a mandatory document to be sent health and safety. to the work council explaining the reasons for the organisational change, followed by a meeting with Prior notice in the event of organisational changes work council representatives no later than 15 days The adjustment of the organisational structure, along after the document is sent. with the operating procedures that support it, is 136 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report In-house communications In 2015, in-house communications also entailed In 2015, in-house communications mainly focused on updating employees on the Hitachi Rail Italy Investments continuously updating employees on Ansaldo STS’s acquisition of Ansaldo STS. main strategic and business projects. For this purpose, the CEO sent emails to all group To this end in-house communications continued to employees around the world, articles and videos were ensure that employees were informed about the published on the Intranet and town hall meetings were performance and results of the strategic Value to organised in Italy and France, with the participation of Actions (V2A) business transformation project. This Ansaldo STS and Hitachi Group top management. project, launched in 2014 and completed in December 2015, is directly promoted by the CEO. Ansaldo STS’ss transformation also required an initial rebranding process, with the replacement of the An international Charity Day was held on 15 October Finmeccanica Group’s logo/corporate image with the 2015 as part of this strategic V2A transformation Hitachi Group’s. Employees were notified of this change project. It involved all ASTS sites around the world and through specific, targeted in-house communication saw a high rate of participation. Employees generously campaigns (email, the Intranet, replacement of logos on donated substantial funds to charities and non-profit employee badges, signs and internal documentation) associations. to ensure disclosure and the timely implementation of all measures necessitated by the transfer to the new During the year, official communications about the shareholder, Hitachi. company’s performance, delivery of its main projects, acquisition of new orders, etc. continued to be made Complaints using the main traditional communication tools (e-mail, Ansaldo STS has a limited number of pending Intranet, in-house screens, meetings with management, disputes that are managed through the courts, as it etc.). resolves conflicts daily, meaning that most complaints are settled without involving the labour courts. 2015 Central and Eastern Western Europe The COMPLAINTS Europe & the Middle East & North Africa Americas Asia Pacific China Total number of formal complaints concerning work practices, of which: 2 4 0 9 0 reported in 2015 2 3 0 9 0 resolved in 2015 1 3 0 8 0 Number of complaints reported before 2015 and resolved in 2015 1 0 0 1 0 137 SUPPLY CHAIN Types of purchases and suppliers 140 Supply chain sustainability policy 142 Vetting and eligibility of suppliers 143 Contractual tools 145 Ansaldo STS has drawn up new criteria to assess and monitor its suppliers and to define a new action plan to assist them improve their sustainability given the increasing importance of the supply chain’s social and environmental aspects. 138 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report 3,017 suppliers in 2015 active GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF ORDERS (%) 2 Other 20 America € 870.2 ordered in 2015 million 16 Asia 62 Pacific Italy/EU Estimated remuneration 470 TYPES OF SUPPLIES (%) of € million for 54 Turnkey projects supply chain labour and sub-contracts 22 Materials 13 Services 11 Interdisciplinary qualification Services for the business process coordinated by Supplier Qualification & Monitoring, which involves the Qualification questionaire technical office, Procurement, integrated with HSE aspects Quality and the Health Safety adoption of ISO 14001 and and Environmental function OHSAS 18001 management systems; application of REACH/ ROHS/RAEE; regulations data on accidents, non conformities, training and emergencies 170 suppliers new qualified 75 audits in 2015 on strategic suppliers 139 Supply Chain | Types of purchases and suppliers Types of purchases and suppliers Ansaldo STS considers the supply chain management •S  ervices – facility management and HSE, payroll process a critical factor for the success of its business. services, professional and ICT services, logistics Strategic procurement management requires a broad services and travel. vision of the process along the entire value chain, from • Business services – engineering and development the definition of product specifications and service to services and RAMS activities (reliability, maintenance, delivery. Ansaldo STS’s management method is interavailability and security). functional and provides for the involvement and approval • Turnkey projects and subcontracts – the award of a of all bodies concerned by the overall logistics. turnkey contact relates to systems that interact with the rest of the technologies for the specific contract Given that it designs, builds and operates transportation such as: installation systems, telecommunications and signalling systems for railway and urban rail systems, auxiliary braking systems, power supply and transport, Ansaldo STS’s supplies include: systems, supervision and control systems, depots for • Materials – purchase of electronic cards, mechanical equipment, signalling systems, rails and civil works. and plastic parts, wayside equipment, cables, racks, cabins, industrial PCs, on-board equipment and 2015 orders by supplier on a geographical basis were electromechanical components. as follows: 2015 ORDER26 BY Asia GEOGRAPHICAL BASE (in euros) Italy/EU27 Pacific28 The Americas29 Other TOTAL Materials 118,923,908 19,359,009 47,970,189 8,059,080 194,312,187 Services 61,472,367 30,022,485 14,454,887 2,475,045 108,424,784 Business services 82,800,421 5,195,180 8,668,458 11,651 96,675,710 Turnkey projects and subcontracts 280,560,682 81,476,153 103,859,503 4,862,226 470,758,564 TOTAL 543,757,378 136,052,827 174,953,037 15,408,002 870,171,244 26. Intragroup orders were excluded. 27. Mainly Italy and France; followed by Spain, Sweden, Germany, UK, Belgium, Switzerland and Denmark. 28. Mainly Australia and India; followed by Malaysia and China. 29. Mainly US; followed by Canada and Brazil. 140 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report TYPES OF SUPPLIES (%) GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF ORDERS (%) 54 Turnkey projects 2 and sub-contracts 22 20 Other Materials America 13 16 Services Asia 62 Pacific Italy/EU 11 Services for the business The number of active suppliers in 2015 decreased • 56.4% are European suppliers; from 3,072 to 3,017. They are analysed by • 23% are suppliers in Asia Pacific; geographical area and order size below: • 19.5% are suppliers in North/South America; • 1.1% suppliers based in other areas. No. of suppliers No. of suppliers BIG MEDIUM No. of suppliers 2015 NO. OF SUPPLIERS GEOGRAPHICAL No. of TOTAL (supplies > (€30K < supplies SMALL BASE ORDER SIZE SUPPLIERS €200k) < €200k) (supplies < €30k) Europe 1,701 301 457 943 Asia Pacific 696 79 151 466 The Americas 587 60 127 400 Other 33 6 6 21 TOTAL 3,017 446 741 1,830 The economic benefit of working • 54% of its orders are for turnkey Therefore, the labour intensity with Ansaldo STS can be measured contracts and subcontracts factor of Ansaldo STS’s orders is by considering its suppliers’ which have an average labour roughly 55.4%: about €480 million workforces. Accordingly, the intensity factor of 50%; paid to suppliers is to cover their following should be considered: • 22% refers to supplies of labour costs. • 24% of Ansaldo STS’s orders are materials with a medium labour for high labour-intensive services intensity factor of 20%; (100%); 141 Supply Chain | Supply chain sustainability policy Supply chain sustainability policy Ansaldo STS has conducted 18001 certification (see Vetting and considered in the supplier’s eligibility an initial mapping of its supply eligibility of suppliers). Ansaldo STS score. chain with respect to compliance applies these characteristics as with Environmental, Social and preferential requisites and they are The mapping showed: Governance (ESG) criteria. Indeed, the standard purchase order model SUPPLIER MAPPING 2015 2014 includes general supply conditions, Number of suppliers in the register by direct and indirect compliance with the code of ethics product types (2010-2015) 17,059 16,112 and, when vetting new suppliers, Total active suppliers (with orders issued in 2015) 2,983 3,072 Ansaldo STS gathers information Number of suppliers covering 80% of the value of 2015 on their compliance with quality, orders 192 203 hygiene, health and safety in the Qualified suppliers in 2015 (Classes A and B) 166 198 workplace standards and their environmental policies, by requiring of which: ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS ISO 14001 certified suppliers 13 30 OHSAS 18001 certified suppliers 7 17 Mapping is the first step in • c ollaboration between Ansaldo the definition of the specific STS and suppliers in product sustainability policy for the supply design; chain. The main guidelines of this • activities to inform suppliers policy will be: about sustainability issues; • audit activities on site • the extension of annual suppliers, including a review of monitoring activities to suppliers sustainability performance, with classified in the A category. technical controls on products for suppliers of materials; Monitoring of social and environmental impact In 2014, Ansaldo STS was solutions to improve the supply In 2016 and 2017, it will analyse involved in testing TenP the chain’s sustainability. the feedback of this survey and sustainable supply chain selfdefine an action plan to improve assessment platform, designed by As part of this project, Ansaldo sustainability. the Global Compact Network Italy STS selected an accredited Foundation (of which Ansaldo STS number of suppliers which it is a founding member) to assist invited to complete an online member companies to collect survey about sustainability issues information on their suppliers’ such as respect for human rights, sustainable performance. The labour conditions, the environment intention is to identify common and anti-corruption. 142 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Vetting and eligibility of suppliers Supplier vetting and the process A new Supplier Qualification & • introduction of an environmental for the purchase of assets, goods Monitoring Unit, part of the Quality management system and services are carried out in Assurance function coordinates compliant with the UNI EN ISO accordance with the principles of supplier qualification. In addition, 14001:2007 standard; the code of ethics and internal Ansaldo STS has specified • introduction of sustainability quality procedures, as well that the qualification process procedures/programmes; as in accordance with current is interdisciplinary and based • application of the legislative environmental, health and safety on opinions of several units requirements to comply with the regulations. In the management involved therein: the technical, REACH/ROHS/RAEE regulations; of relationships with suppliers procurement, quality and EHS • collection of data about and sub-contractors, as for all units. accidents, non-compliance, business and financial dealings training and emergencies. of any kind, Ansaldo STS requires Ansaldo STS revised the supplier its counterparties to conduct questionnaire (FOR 019), As Ansaldo STS has always themselves in accordance with introducing specific questions operated in emerging countries, the principles of loyalty, fairness, about the environment and safety, it prefers large companies that transparency, efficiency and legal directly involving the EHS unit in preferably have the quality, compliance. supplier qualification and defining environmental and safety a list of “sensitive” goods, where certificates when vetting and To this end, suppliers and subthe latter unit’s involvement is qualifying suppliers. contractors are vetted on the mandatory. basis of objective, transparent and documentable evaluation The questionnaire’s update criteria, in accordance with the covered the following EHS aspects: principles of the code of ethics • introduction of a safety and all procedures provided for by management system compliant specific protocols, in writing and in with the BS OHSAS 18001 line with the current hierarchical standard; structure. 143 Supply Chain | Vetting and eligibility of suppliers Suppliers and service providers can act as genuine partners in the the performance of the entire project. Relationships are based on the supply chain. Therefore, these contractors work correct management of supplies in alongside all Ansaldo STS’s bodies terms of quality, cost-effectiveness, Packages/subcontracts (PM, Engineering, Quality, Logistics ability to meet delivery times and Purchasing a package refers to the and Construction) throughout the compliance with the requirements assignment of a turnkey plant that entire process and, for correctness for goods purchased. Ansaldo will correctly integrate with all other and transparency purposes, they are STS’s objective with suppliers of technology comprising the entire updated on the progress of the other business-critical materials, such project. In this case, the assignee is technologies, any critical issues with as electronic cards and racks and not considered a mere supplier, but a respect to the project, and are invited cabinets, is to sign medium to bona fide partner, and must inevitably to the meetings held with other long-term agreements so that they form an integral part of all stages in contractors and the end customer. The vetting process The supplier vetting and assessment process entails the following stages, in accordance with the procedures established for the management of this process. Market search Direct/Indirect Traditional/ Ansaldo STS Direct/Indirect Vendor rating and analysis qualification on-line negotiations purchase order requalification Identification Qualification Selection Activation Monitoring Requalification Qualified Selected Ansaldo STS Confirmation/ Benchmark Corrective Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Warning attribution/ and short list actions Register Register Register Cancellation Ansaldo STS’s Procurement and Construction). Throughout • t he Procurement function, for function vets potential suppliers of the entire assessment process, a more reliable assessment of materials, service providers and, in Ansaldo STS verifies that suppliers strategic suppliers; particular, suppliers of packages/ meet requirements in order to •o  ther functions when they do not subcontractors, with the support approve them and include them have enough information; of other company functions in the list of eligible suppliers • the Quality function when the (Engineering, Administration and for specific goods categories assessment of the supplier’s Finance, Legal Affairs, Quality, EHS and, thus, that may be used for organisational system, quality the issue of purchase orders. management system or overall Depending on the importance of capabilities is not sufficient the product types, the assessment considering the type and methods used range from a importance of supply. The simple analysis of the documents assessment team examines requested of and received from the various business areas the supplier to the preparation depending on the type of purchase of assessment reports following (materials, services, packages, an inspection of the supplier’s etc.), on the basis of the required site. The following functions may processes (design, supply, request the inspection: assembly, etc.) and, finally, on the basis of their importance. 144 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Eligibility criteria Drawing on the technical and companies with the International well, with the subsequent advantage specialised expertise of the Railway Industry Standard (IRIS) of reducing the time needed to concerned company bodies, certification; complete the process once the the Supplier Qualification and • whether it has environmental supplier has been selected. Monitoring function assembles the management systems and health assessments of potential suppliers and safety management systems With a view to continuous prepared by the functions involved in certified by accredited bodies; improvement, two new key aspects the qualification process according • its willingness to be inspected; have been introduced into the to highly detailed requirements that • whether it has been endorsed by eligibility process. The first relates fall under the following categories: the Italian Railway Network (RFI) or to the fine-tuning of the process, • financial situation and results; other bodies; while the second is organisational in • management, sales and logistics • the identification and traceability nature. organisation; of production lots. • production potential and technical Approximatrely 75 audits were expertise; Since 2012, the part of the eligibility performed in 2015 on the most • whether it has quality process entailing the gathering of the important qualified suppliers and management systems certified by above subset of information has been approximately 170 new suppliers accredited bodies, giving priority to extended to the bidding procedure as were qualified. Contractual tools Ansaldo STS uses various on the suppliers’ processes are For turnkey packages and supporting contracts, depending on performed, in addition to scrupulous contracts, Ansaldo STS agrees the goods and services purchased checks of supplies to monitor ad hoc contracts whereby the from a given supplier. suppliers’ ethical conduct, adequacy, contractors undertake, through their reliability and timeliness. organisation, using the necessary For the product categories relating means and with management at to basic services, such as ICT For specific materials and services their own risk, the construction of (Information & Communication for projects, Ansaldo STS uses the relevant plant or service. Technology), the supply of energy, purchase orders. The standard order global services and logistics includes a summary of the general Furthermore, all contractual (outsourcing of warehouses and supply terms, legal requirements documentation is attached to transport contracts), Ansaldo STS – with specific reference to the the contract. This documentation will continue to use framework protection of workers and the normally consists of the main agreements defined at Finmeccanica protection of personal data – and a contract (that agreed by Ansaldo group level (Finmeccanica Group notice of compliance with the code STS with the customer), the Services) for most of 2015. of ethics. technical documents defining the scope of the work in detail, detailed For standard materials and The order includes a description of project plans, Ansaldo STS’s code services, all initiatives favouring the characteristics and requirements, of ethics and legally-required long-term arrangements are quantities and delivery times for the documents (safety and coordination preferred (framework agreements, materials and services, and may also plan and facsimile of workers’ partnerships, memoranda of refer to specific documents clarifying protection statements), etc. understanding, etc.) with vetted the technical specifications for more suppliers, and periodic controls complex devices. 145 Supply Chain | Vetting and eligibility of suppliers Monitoring Suppliers are constantly monitored suppliers of strategic materials through contacts between only on a continuous basis, V2A-New Road project them and the Ansaldo STS and the results are assessed In 2015, Ansaldo STS continued functions with which they operate each quarter. The parameters striving for the technical and (Procurement, PM, Engineering, considered are: commercial optimisation of Quality and Supply Chain Quality, • Price (calculated as the variation external costs, carrying forward Logistics and Construction). At in the cost of the product); the interfunctional V2A-New Road least once a year, personnel • Quality (calculated as the project, launched in 2014. A few working with suppliers participate percentage of faults); macro categories of costs were in a vendor rating process that • On-time delivery. considered strategic as part of takes into account the suppliers’ this project. conduct and performance vis-à-vis The global performance of the supplies ordered, in order to suppliers remained high, with For each macro category, update the suppliers’ assessment only 10 suppliers receiving international and interfunctional and establish whether they will unsatisfactory ratings. teams were identified to evaluate remain in the list of Ansaldo STS and implement specific ways suppliers. Scores are given in four of increasing efficiency in the main areas: Quality, Timeliness, medium and long-term. Flexibility and Charges. This The performance level achieved is monitoring system is applied to in line with targets. 146 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Responsible litigation management In general, litigation between Chain functions, the general the subcontracts, which could Ansaldo STS and its suppliers/ contractual terms are currently give rise to procedural difficulties contractors may involve breaches being revised to ensure Ansaldo in recovering the amounts due. of contract by the aforesaid STS’s compliance with contracting In addition to ensuring the counterparties, relating to either and public supply regulations. impartiality of the proceedings any framework agreements for in multicultural environments, work/supplies or to Ansaldo STS’s Given the development of th the use of arbitration ensures, individual orders with such parties. activities abroad, Ansaldo STS as a general rule, a considerable Although it is difficult to completely tends to include arbitration reduction in the time required to prevent disputes, Ansaldo STS clauses in the related contracts, settle disputes and allows the endeavours to periodically improve in order to prevent any evasive company to restore, in the short the content of its general terms conduct by suppliers (supported term, business relationships and conditions and, whenever by the governing law which, in with the counterparty, which are possible, to standardise subthese cases, is almost always fundamental for the company’s supplies. In the scope of this the local law), and avoid any growth and sound functioning. improvement, and in collaboration discrepancies between the main with the Procurement and Supply contract with the customer and 147 COMMUNITY Media affairs 150 Ansaldo STS and the community 155 Research projects with Italian and EU public institutions 158 Partnerships with universities: technological and managerial training 163 Trade associations 165 Ansaldo STS promotes society’s scientific, cultural and social progress by actively taking part in research projects with national and EU institutions on ICT and the sustainability of transportation systems. It also encourages technological and managerial training through partnerships with universities. Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Founding member of Shift2Rail Public/private European partnership 12 European projects research to manage and coordinate railway research 8 projects Italian research in signalling, safety, infrastructure monitoring and energy efficiency Participation in the technological districts in Liguria (SIIT) and Campania (DATTILO) 27 events and the TOPIN workshop trade fairs, for innovative optoconferences, electronic technologies launches and conventions Participation in the Embedded and 1st in Italy INSIST university/ in the KWB company networks Webranking of excellence Industry on ICT, Energy and Transport Master agreements and partnerships with the universities of Genoa, Turin, Rome, Milan, Member of UNIFE Paris, Dresden, Madrid and Basilicata committees for sustainability and communication LinkedIn: growth in followers from 10,000 to 53,700 at the end of 2015 149 Community | Media affairs Media affairs The main purpose of external communications is In the year, Ansaldo STS prepared a tailored customer communications and, more generally, procedure to update its commercial documentation, market communications, in order to contribute to brochures, presentations and advertising materials. the creation of value, improving the way in which Its primary objective was to align the external view the Ansaldo STS brand is perceived by the many of the company, its organisation and products to the professionals who participate in decision-making that changes and innovation that have characterised it in affects investments and the main operating activities. this last period. Accordingly, it prepared and revised (in several languages, including Chinese) about 20 Institutional communications target the top new documents/brochures, circulated its institutional management of major national railway companies and presentation and created a new company profile. the public administrations of urban areas interested in transportation solutions, the operating units of The company promoted its presence at trade customers responsible for performing contracts, the fairs through communication with a wide range of technical/contractual supervisory bodies appointed initiatives: a special advertising campaign, new by customers or required by local legislation, information material, new demos of its products and professional associations in the sector and opinion development of interest groups on the social media. makers. Trade fairs are not only occasions for communication The objective of technical/business communication with the market, its institutions and representatives is to inform the various professionals that are most but are also used to showcase Ansaldo STS’s involved in qualification with customers, design, products. implementation, commissioning, approval, after-sales service, staff training and workers’ safety at the Again in 2015, the company sought to use trade fairs sites. and institutional communications as a showcase, devoting particular attention and emphasis to its It pursues these objectives by creating a work products, directly displaying signalling components community that can adjust its response to the market and presenting demos on integrated solutions and in terms of timing and procedures, by participating in launching new products. trade fairs, by appearing in specialised publications with institutional and product advertisements, along with articles detailing certain aspects, company publicity on the website, the publication of leaflets and broadcasting of videos for sales and marketing, training of customers’ staff and workers’ safety at the sites. 150 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report A year of events and contact with our stakeholders For Ansaldo STS, trade fairs, like all conferences and demonstrating Ansaldo STS’s dedication to the market sponsorships, are one of the most important occasions and products. It also provides the opportunity to clarify for company communications and specific sector targets, a key step in establishing the communication communications, as they constitute a privileged place strategy and method to be implemented throughout the for exhibitioners and stakeholders (customers) to meet. entire year. For the purposes of careful preliminary planning, the External Communication and Strategy and Marketing In 2015, Ansaldo STS focused specifically on organising offices establish objectives and, accordingly, the tours of its sites and projects to give stakeholders the relevant markets. This is one of the many situations chance to see the work first hand. MONTH EVENT LOCATION January Queensland delegation tour Genoa/Milan/Bologna Eurasia Rail Istanbul Middle East Rail Dubai March ASSTRA/National Tram System Convention Rome IRSE Technical Assembly Victoria (AUS) April Thai delegation (SRT) tour Florence – Pistoia Inauguration of the Garibaldi-SanSiro Line 5 in Milan Milan 2020 Italy Cluster Transport Meeting Bologna May Inauguration of the Municipio Station on Line 1 in Naples Naples “Regional and local public transport network planning, operation and management: Genoa (at universities) a comparison of European experiences” IRSE International Convention Brisbane (AUS) SMRT & KRRI tour Paris Rome Milan June IHHA International Heavy Haul Association Conferences Perth UNIFE – General Assembly Bucharest Workshop on Technological Innovation (for top managers of the Indian railways) Genoa September Italy-Balkans Railway Forum Trieste National Transport Public Meetings Lyon Railway Interchange (RSSI) Minneapolis (US) October Elmia Nordic Rail Jokoping (Sweden) Event Charity All Ansaldo STS sites CBTC World Congress Copenhagen Town Hall Genoa November Town Hall Naples AUS Rail Plus Melbourne Town Hall Les Ulis December AICQ – Railway transport convention Florence Rebranding as a social opportunity the company to launch a series of throughout Italy. This project The company began a full-scale charity projects. prevented the waste of material and rebranding project on 2 November also sent items like notepads and 2015, with the transfer of 40% All the gadgets and stationery that pens to small towns in the third of Ansaldo STS shares from bore the old Ansaldo STS logo were world. Finmeccanica to the Hitachi Group. organised into product categories In addition to changing the brand, according to their use and donated the new ownership also enabled to various non-profit organisations 151 Community | Media affairs The Media Ansaldo STS develops its relationships with the press agencies specialised in business news (e.g., media by focusing utmost attention on the quality of Radiocor, Mf Dow Jones and Reuters), as well as the information, which must always meet requirements of international press specialised in business news transparency, timeliness, truthfulness, complete ease of (Reuters International, Dow Jones and Bloomberg); use and widespread distribution. These characteristics • dailies (e.g., Il Sole 24 Ore, MF, Italy Oggi, Repubblica, enable Ansaldo STS to base its communications on the Secolo XIX, Messagero, Il Mattino and others); constant symmetry of information to all media outlets, • periodicals (e.g., Milano Finanza, Corriere Economia, also considering the fact that the company is listed Repubblica Affari&Finanza, Il Mondo and The on the stock market. Relationships with journalists Economist); are managed at several levels: from the highest, with • the radio (Radio 24); directors and deputy directors of publications, to middle • television (Class CNBC); range, with head editors and senior editors, to writers. • online media; Indeed, relationships must be forged across the board • blogs, such as letters to investors and similar posts. for constant support with respect to issues relating to Ansaldo STS’s business. It enjoys ongoing and fruitful relationships with local In its communication activities, Ansaldo STS mainly business and general media outlets in which it has sites targets sector leaders: (particularly Genoa and Naples) or where it carries out • national press agencies that handle general news projects, such as Rome, Milan and Brescia. (e.g., ANSA, ADN-Kronos and AGI) and national Advertising campaigns In 2015, the analysis and evaluation conducted in 2014 were used to identify the main trade publications by geographical area. In this way, relationships with major international publications in the railway transport/signalling sector were reconsidered and forged, including Railway Gazette International, International Railway Journal and Eurailmag. This analysis led to a more accurate definition of the advertising plan in coordination with the trade fair activities and electronic communications. In addition to the social highlights that were widely publicised in previous years, in 2015, the advertising campaign was developed as another way of recognising and showcasing Ansaldo STS technologies, with a focus on product details in production and the new freight business segment. The company also renewed the advertising campaign with the preparation and circulation of new advertising, as well as updating its trademark adverts. 152 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Price sensitive communications to the market All Ansaldo STS information that can be defined in charge of press releases, to work closely as price sensitive (i.e., that could materially affect with the Investor Relations function and the the share’s price on the stock market and that legal function and the internal communications. is disclosed via Borsa Italiana’s NIS Network The company issued 38 press releases in Information System) is subject to a standard 2015. Ultimate authorisation for the issue procedure, revised again in 2015, that requires the of press releases always lies with the CEO company’s External Communication function, and CFO. Digital communications The company website Customer communications take many shapes and cover many channels. The External Communications function aims to always be on time and take advantage of opportunities: to arrive on time and in the right way, when and where the strategy requires, to meet the target customer’s informational needs, in addition to those of other potential stakeholders, such as partners or suppliers. In 2015, the company made increasing use of the digital media channel, less used in the past, and continued to update its website and also using the social media and institutional sites. In 2015, Ansaldo STS maintained an excellent position in WebRanking’s independent valuation, leading the Italian industrial sector for the third consecutive year. Overall, considering all the Italian sectors with an average score of 40.5 points, Ansaldo STS scored 62.8, taking 11th place. Integrated Review The second edition of the Integrated Review was given a new graphical layout in 2015 for the report on the previous year. This is a step forward in the direction of an integrated view of business, social and environmental management and a new tool for the public demonstrating how sustainability is an integral part of Ansaldo STS’s day-to-day work, and an increasingly key element for pursuing dialogue with stakeholders, so they have adequate tools to read about and understand the company. 153 Community | Media affairs Social Media Communications In 2015, new initiatives were kicked off to develop currently existing digital communication channels, improve their content and format and communication functions, as well as facilitate dialogue outside the company. In the same year, contact was made with the Wikipedia editors to keep the pages on the company and its business updated in both Italian and English. Communications channels were developed and updated via social media, in line with the sector approach and creating more ongoing interactive communications with the general public. The success garnered by the investments in communications and content can be seen by the development of the LinkedIn platform, where the company’s followers have grown from roughly 10,000 at the start of 2014 to over 53,700 at year end. This reflects Ansaldo STS’s professional activities and communications, which an increasingly number of sector users wishes to access. Company events, commercial successes and exhibitions are regularly presented to the public’s great interest. In 2015, the company invested significant time and energy in strengthening electronic communications by expanding the channels available to stakeholders and synchronising them. Today we can affirm that all key information is reported in real time on the major social networks. On the other hand, a quantitative analysis has clearly shown that Ansaldo STS’s social profiles are increasingly more numerous, while a qualitative analysis shows that the distribution of LinkedIn followers is truly global. In 2015, there were nearly 200 organic and original tweets, 63 organic and original posts on LinkedIn, with an increase in Facebook posts as well. The big surprise for LinkedIn is that, of the 53,700 followers, 2,700 are company employees, which is to say that roughly 77% employees are followers, fully reflecting the sound results of Ansaldo STS’s efforts to improve values in general and team spirit specifically. 154 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Ansaldo STS and the community Each year sees Ansaldo STS committed to various charitable events, investments in the community and sponsorships. In 2015, total donations and SPONSORSHIPS AND DONATIONS sponsorships amounted to roughly €804 thousand, as PROCEDURE shown below by geographical segment: Ansaldo STS has a procedure for sponsorships, advertising initiatives and contributions to associations and bodies that sets out the general principles, scope of application, roles and 8.9% 0.3% Australia responsibilities for making decisions and the costs incurred for sponsorships and donations. Sweeden It checks the party that receives the sponsorship or 4.4% advertising fee or is given the grant to ensure that Italy they will be able to carry out the related project, 6.8% there are no conflicts of interest, no convictions for Usa crimes and that the party does not reside in a tax haven. 79.5% Donations alone totalled €61,816 and related to education and young people’s development, health and social welfare, France as well as art and culture. Charity day Charity day was held on 15 October 2015, as part of the strategic V2A transformation programme promoted directly by the CEO Stefano Siragusa. This initiative, which involved all sites around the world, was positively received and Ansaldo STS employees generously raised over €12,000 for charities, including UNICEF, Save The Children and ActionAid. All employees received V2A t-shirts and could choose to make a donation. Efficiency in business and in social initiatives has always been Ansaldo STS’s hallmarks. 155 Community | Ansaldo STS and the community The 2014 sustainability report Ansaldo STS has always been committed to creating value for its customers, shareholders, workers and the community in which it lives: this spirit has always, and will always, guide its management team. With the 2014 sustainability report, the company has once again expressed its commitment to making the world a better place for future generations. Indeed, Ansaldo STS estimated the CO2 emissions produced by reporting and preparing the 2014 sustainability report and to offset them decided to plant 400 trees in Campania (via a Libera Terra cooperative at the foot of Mount Vesuvius) and Haiti (as part of a project with the AVSI Foundation in the Chantal South Department). The trees were assigned to those who downloaded the report on the Ansaldo STS website. Each tree was photographed and ge-olocalised, so it This campaign was talked about and promoted widely is always visible online. Users can see where “their” on Ansaldo STS’s social network pages. tree was planted and watch it grow over time. TREEDOM: VESUVIUS MISSION REPORT At Villa Medicea di Ottaviano, where the trees financed by Ansaldo STS were planted, at the entrance of the Mount Vesuvius National park, a garden is being created for children and adults alike, with a playground and panels explaining the project. The trees were planted by the disabled, recovered drug addicts and former detainees, but the volunteers who, each summer, are gathered by the Coop cooperative for the Campi di Libera Terra project did most of the work. The land was prepared for the trees. Ansaldo STS’s trees that have already been planted are grafted, without leaves or flowers, and so they have not been geo-referenced or photographed. They are healthy and are one and a half years old (1-1.5 metres tall). The tress will be photographed in June and the users who had them planted can receive emails with pictures of their healthy, living, leafy tree. 156 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report TREEDOM: HAITI MISSION REPORT Haiti’s current environmental deterioration is severe due to the historic and economic exploitation of its various resources, specially its forests. According to national data (2003), estimated forest cover is roughly 1.8% of Haiti’s entire surface area, corresponding to 49,608 hectares. Between 1990 and 2000, forest cover diminished by an estimated 7,000 hectares per year, with an average deforestation rate of 5.7%. In particular, from 1990 to 1995, the estimated loss in absolute terms was 16%, with an average deforestation rate of approximately 3.5%. One of the main causes of this deforestation rate is illegal logging to produce coal for use in construction. This type of cutting significantly reduces biodiversity and hydro-geological stability. The Macaya Park Treedom project has a positive economic and social impact for 20 social organisations with 3,600 beneficiaries, while also constituting a source of alternative income to illegal logging. The main objective is to prevent soil erosion and begin a recovery in production in disadvantaged areas. The reforestation project, in which Ansaldo STS participated, planted 25,000 saplings (70% fruit trees and 30% forest trees), which were germinated in local nurseries and then planted. 600 farmers were involved in this project. They and their families – for a total of around 3,600 people – have already reaped the benefits of the increase in production. The earthquake forced some 511,000 people out of their homes in Port-au-Prince to the countryside, The project also involved civil society and farming 40,000 of whom are now in the rural area of Les Cayes. organisations: high school students received training in Because of this, the project’s contribution after the environmental protection and deforestation. The aim of earthquake created development opportunities for life in the project was mainly productive. Density varies from the rural areas by sharing know-how and technologies to 200 to 500 plants per hectare. improve natural resources and the life of residents. 157 Community | Research projects with Italian and EU public institutions Research projects with Italian and EU public institutions Ansaldo STS participates in Development and the Ministry of JU)”, a public-private partnership for research projects funded by the the Environment. the management and coordination of European Commission, the Ministry research in the rail sector. Ansaldo of Education, Universities and 2015 will see the launch of the STS is one of the joint undertaking’s Research, the Ministry for Economic “Shift2Rail Joint Undertaking (S2R founding members. European research projects In 2015, Ansaldo STS was involved in the following satellite technology in the above-mentioned railway projects that receive European funding for satellite standard. signalling: • SBS (feasibility study on space-based services • 3InSat (Train Integrated Safety Satellite System), for railway signalling services), financed by the financed by the European Space Agency (ESA) to European Space Agency (ESA) to prepare a develop a satellite localisation system and integrate specific demonstration project to be built in a it with ERTMS railway signalling. 2015 saw the subsequent stage. Specific focus was paid to completion of the satellite localisation system’s the proof of concept, which should demonstrate integration with the ERTMS railway signalling system that the signalling system functions with satellite and the use of the IP-based telecommunications technologies, and the recommendations for the networks, such as the public operator networks, inclusion of satellite technologies in the signalling satellite network and TETRA network. The project system specifications, included in the technical was successfully completed in February 2016. specifications for interoperability (TSI). • ERSAT EAV (ERTMS ON SATELLITE – ENABLING • STARS, a project financed by the GSA Agency and APPLICATION & VALIDATION), a project financed by coordinated by UNIFE with partners in the railway the GSA Agency to verify the suitability of EGNSS and satellite communities. It is a contribution to and, specifically, EGNOS and the new Galileo the future development of EGNSS in safe railway services for ERTMS European railway signalling and, applications. The project covers three main aspects: in particular, for safe wayside localisation (SIL4), 1) Processing data and characterising the railway indicating a possible way forward for adoption of environment with a measurement campaign; 158 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report 2) EGNSS performance assessment in the railway solutions that make their operation more efficient environment with the determination of applicable and capable of effectively responding to outside requirements for the positioning system and threats, extreme weather conditions in particular. necessary developments in ERTMS/ETCS services • IN2RAIL (Innovative Intelligent RAIL), to lay the and functions; 3) Quantifying the economic benefits foundation for the Shif2Rail Joint Undertaking of and specifications of a possible implementation which Ansaldo STS is co-founder with another seven roadmap in the EGNSS application for the railways. organisations to obtain a resilient, high-capacity • RHINOS (Railway High Integrity Navigation Overlay and cost-effective European railway network by System), a project financed by the GSA Agency to designing key components that make the most of the define a common GNSS interface to be used around innovation in the 2nd and 3rd Shift2Rail Innovation the world for railway applications by applying a highPrograms (IP). integrity navigation layer to the GNSS infrastructure, • FOSTER RAIL (Future Of Surface Transport Research originally created for aviation applications. RHINOS Rail), to make research and innovation in European will see the involvement of Stanford University industries more effective by improving cooperation as an international partner, the US partner for between stakeholders and more adequately defining GPS research and one of the main players in research and innovation needs. EU-US cooperation in the field of GPS-GALILEO • NGTC (Next Generation Train Control), to develop standardisation. future railway and metro traffic control systems. In particular, activities will consist of creating the Other projects are underway in Europe relating to specifications to describe the new functions needed the macro-themes of safety, diagnostic monitoring for the definition of architecture and interface for of infrastructures, new integrated architectures, each of the fields of application. innovation for the future of sustainable rail transport • CEF (support for ERTMS implementation), part of and ERTMS. the European ERTMS global development project • CRYSTAL (CRitical sYSTem engineering AcceLeration), to maintain specifications, speed up advancement to make the developments achieved in the CESAR to subsequent versions (Baseline 3), improve project funded by the same JTU continuous. The interoperability and cut inspection and certification general idea is to arrive at technological solutions costs, eliminate GSM-R interference and develop that automate the development, inspection and future railway telecommunication systems. validation of embedded safety systems. • MANTIS (Management of critical knowledge to Furthermore, the following energy efficiency projects, support maintenance decision making), with the named MERLIN and OSIRIS were completed in 2015. aim of expanding knowledge of the decision-making process in system maintenance. In the railway sector, guaranteeing high service availability is crucial during system operation. • CAPACITY4RAIL (Increasing capacity for rail networks through enhanced infrastructure and optimized operations), to create technological solutions that make maintaining and building railway infrastructure more efficient and less expensive and define the 159 Community | Research projects with Italian and EU public institutions Project MERLIN architecture to which the optimised consumption substations; heat This project’s primary objectives energy management systems will be pumps to reduce consumption by were: applied (including an interface with the HVAC systems. • characterisation of railway the energy management systems •O  peration support technologies: networks and the main elements and the supervision subsystems. specification of optimised ventilation that influence energy consumption systems for metros; assessment (principally main line); The OSIRIS project of the effects of optimised driving; • identification of energy efficiency The main objectives of the OSIRIS feasibility of a real-time system indicators to be used to directly project were: for efficient energy management compare network performances; • definition of benchmarks for the (smart-grid energy management). • definition of a global energy energy consumption of urban rail • T ool: holistic models to measure the consumption map for the systems (LRV, trams and metros) energy consumption of urban rail identification of the main and energy efficiency indicators for systems, including thermal aspects. requirements for energy standard operating cycles; optimisation; • development of a holistic model As part of this project, Ansaldo STS • definition of a reference suitably interfaced with multiis coordinating the study of the architecture for the systems that train simulation tools and for the systems and energy saving strategies include an interface with the global modelling of energy flows for the infrastructure. It was involved supervision and control systems and consumption in the urban rail in the electro-mechanical and as well (e.g., the signalling system; thermal simulations and the design/ system). • performance of electrical, thermal testing of innovative solutions using and mechanical simulations; technologies to recover braking Other objectives achieved in project • checking the effects of introducing energy and use geothermal sources MERLIN were: specific new technologies and of energy. • definition of a reference operating strategies for the future architecture and its subsystems reduction of consumption by the Finally, Ansaldo STS participated with for the intelligent management urban rail system; a number of different bids (currently of energy in the railway systems • demonstration and validation of the being evaluated) in response to (energy dispatch) to be used to studied technologies and strategies European H2020 Shift2Rail JU calls take financial decisions and to on a series of real demonstration for multi-modal transport, advanced manage energy in real time; scenarios that include LRV, metro signalling and automation systems, • identification of reference and tram systems. intelligent systems for maintenance, scenarios used as benchmarks automation and sustainability in to study solutions to be defined The main innovations of the OSIRIS freight transport. as part of the project and the project relate to: subsequent validation of the • vehicles: technologies for traction, technologies and strategies braking and operation controls; identified. energy accumulation systems based on Li-ion batteries; auxiliary Ansaldo STS is in charge of service intelligent control systems; coordinating the study and development of innovative energy characterisation of the converters; components that affect railway • Infrastructure: reversible network consumption, definition substations, ground storage of of the global energy consumption energy; low consumption ancillary map and definition of the reference services, design criteria for low 160 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Italian research projects With respect to national research, Ansaldo STS is collected, analysed and integrated and used as participates in the Liguria Region’s “Technologically support to take decisions about how to improve the Integrated Intelligent Systems” district, with other rail system’s maintenance. Finmeccanica companies in the region, and in DATTILO • VERO (Virtual Engineering for Railways and (High-Tech Transport and Logistics District) and Automotive) to support the construction of simulators the TOPIN laboratory (Innovative Optical-electronic for the optimal dimensioning of signalling systems. Technologies) in Campania. In addition, Ansaldo STS The project was launched in the last few months of participates in the ‘Embedded’ and ‘INSIST’ university/ 2013, carried out in 2014 and completed in the first company networks for excellence, which concern half of 2015. themselves with ICT, energy and transport issues. • DIGITAL PATTERN, in which an IT environment was created to support the design and production of In 2015, it completed the following projects in relation systems and parts for road and rail transportation. to PON (national operating programme) tenders: In particular, Ansaldo STS specified, developed and • SICURFER, to develop and test technologies for tested a simulation environment to support the rail railway infrastructure monitoring to improve safety and metro system project. and security levels through the production, testing • SFERE, to study the benefits of using supercapacitors and integration of diagnostic units (wayside and oninstalled on the ground. board). The information obtained from these units 161 Community | Research projects with Italian and EU public institutions Project SFERE vibrations, humidity, electrical The project’s development The objective of Project SFERE and magnetic fields and entails the application of (Rail systems: eco-sustainability pollutants (chemical, physical modelling techniques, while and energy savings), funded and biological), with applications testing and validation activities by the Ministry of Education, in structural monitoring, will focus on on-site activities for Universities and Research, is to environmental monitoring and line bodies. create an energy storage system water monitoring, the detection • MODISTA, to develop innovative with supercapacitors for railway of under-water noise, the size solutions for the performance systems. This system comprises of radio-active waves and radioof experimental acceptance storage units placed on board active environments, biomedical testing and the monitoring of the trains and in the wayside tools, musical instruments, components and systems on subsystem. They are monitored microwave photonics, etc. real lines, especially with the constantly using suitable • FERSAT, the result of the need use of low-traffic lines. The main measurement instruments and are to modernise and strengthen aim of this project is to develop coordinated and managed using regional and local railway lines and demonstrate innovative software that also coordinates the by leveraging new localisation technological solutions in actions of the protection bodies to satellite and wireless the monitoring of lines and avoid dangerous situations. telecommunications technologies vehicles in transit, in order to increase transport capacity, to boost safety and security As part of Project SFERE, Ansaldo safety and significant reduce the levels, optimise maintenance STS is engaged in the activities for costs of operating the railway and improve energy efficiency. the study and testing of the ground network. The technological In particular, in 2015, energy storage system and integration innovation introduced enhances harvesting systems were with the on-board storage system the regional and local railway experimented with to feed the so as to build the most suitably lines whose current operation monitoring devices on board the sized units for their optimum and maintenance costs have freight carriages. management. stalled investments and, accordingly the update of current The following projects will continue technologies, although demand in 2016: for local transport is constantly • OPTOFER, to create a public/ growing. private workshop for the • NEMBO, to develop new equipment and technologies technologies and methodologies needed to design, produce, lay in the scope of development, and inspect optical fibre sensors testing and validation processes and new sub-micrometric for embedded systems, particular photonic devices to measure: for the fail-safe systems used for deformations, temperature, railway signalling. REGIONAL GROUPING FOR RAIL TRANSPORT Ansaldo STS, Confindustria Genoa and the Liguria Region’s “Technologically Integrated Intelligent Systems” district (SIIT) have joined forces to promote development of a regional technological grouping for rail transport, involving SMEs, universities and the CRN (Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, National Research Council). Their aim is to present research topics pertinent to the Horizon 2020 programme and especially the European multinational Shift2Rail project to the Department of Economic Development of the Liguria Region to be included in the next programming schedule. 162 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Partnerships with universities: technological and managerial training Ansaldo STS continued its relationship with Italian received specific training and have worked as trainees and foreign universities and training schools also in at the Naples site in 2015 and early 2015. 2015 in order to contribute to the students’ theoretical and practical knowledges and to offer traineeships, Ansaldo STS is a member of the Genoa-based Institute scholarships and other opportunities for young of Advanced Studies in Information Technology and motivated and enterprising people. Communication (ISICT). ISICT is a consortium set up by the University of Genoa and companies, institutions and In the 2013-2014 academic year, along with the Ferrovie bodies of the Liguria region. Its purpose is to promote dello Stato group (Italian railways), AnsaldoBreda, high level training in the field of Information and Roma Metropolitane, Bombardier Transportation Italy Communication Technology. Ansaldo STS participates S.p.A. and Almaviva, Ansaldo STS participated in the in the institute’s projects as part of the decision-making Level II University Master programme in Infrastructural bodies and by collaborating in the training of Italian and Railway System Engineering with the La Sapienza and foreign students by providing teachers who are University of Rome. The aim of the master programme extremely qualified in technological subjects. Each year, was to train top level engineers in the rail transportation the company invites the students to visit it and see sector. how the organisation works, its ongoing projects and technologies used. In addition to the lunch for everyone, As part of development of the networks of excellence Ansaldo STS offered the ISICT students the opportunity that link companies, universities and research to prepare their theses at the company in 2015. Its centres, Ansaldo STS has funded three scholarships aim is to provide the students with more opportunities for the Embedded System in Critical Domains Project to gain practical experience and an insider view of the (technologies and methods to develop embedded world of work. At the same time, this creates added systems in critical domains for time and safety (tender value for the organisation as it benefits from these of 29 March 2014). activities which contribute to its ongoing technical improvement. In line with previous years, the company is part of the project to reform the technical high schools (ITS) defined Furthermore, Ansaldo STS organises annual by Finmeccanica and the Ministry of Education in the conferences on cyber security, in collaboration with the memorandum of understanding signed in November Engineering department of the University of Genoa, 2009. This project provides for the involvement particularly for students and businesses in the area. of Finmeccanica group companies in the set-up of Ansaldo STS also participates in workshops with foundations in their regions to manage two-year poststudents who have completed high school or who are high school technical training programmes. The end graduating from university, held by the university in objective is to provide young people finishing technical concert with leading companies in the region. During high schools with more specialised training to meet these workshops, the company listens to young the rising demand from companies for highly qualified university students’ needs and aspirations and then experts. In 2013, the first course was completed with presents, together with the various participating lectures given by 25 Ansaldo STS employees and 10 companies, specific details on their companies. This young high school leavers were given job experience is an opportunity for the students to prove themselves at the company. A second training course commenced and to obtain information about potential employment in 2014 for another 19 students, some of whom have opportunities, especially in Ansaldo STS’s sector. 163 Community | Partnerships with universities: technological and managerial training Agreements with universities presenting various engineering In 2014, Ansaldo STS sponsored Ansaldo STS has framework issues that are of great interest 20 internships for university agreements in place with the Italian to Ansaldo STS, such as electric students, future engineers, in Universities of Genoa, Turin, Rome traction. The company increasingly France. These internships provide and Basilicata, relating to a number promotes the use of this type of an ideal opportunity for students of three-year PhD partnership seminars, with the shared aim of to discover international railway programmes, annual or two-year offering training to young resources signalling, urban rail on-board/ research contracts as well as and presenting issues directly wayside signalling applications and numerous theses and internships. applicable to the projects in which traffic management. Ansaldo STS The company also has a framework the company is involved. has also continued its partnerships agreement with the German with prestigious French university University of Dresden, specialised Ansaldo STS promotes initiatives research centres and business in railway signalling and is also and projects with the international schools, including the Centrale developing partnerships with the universities in countries strategic Paris University (where the company Universities of Rome and Milan. for its future, aimed at building participates in specific project professionally fruitful and longmanagement courses) and ESTACA In 2014, these agreements term relationships. An example of (Ecole Supérieure des Techniques enabled the company to organise this commitment is the US, where Aéronautiques et de Construction ad hoc seminars at the University Ansaldo STS has pursued important Automobile, a prestigious French of Genoa and other Italian and training initiatives, including: engineering high school), where it foreign universities. The seminars • participating in several academic assists the school prepare specific offer two opportunities to the career fairs; rail signalling courses. company as they provide training • participating in the Computer to students through the availability Science Day at the University of The company is also one of the of its technical and other staff and Pittsburgh; industrial partners of the Railway also contribute to highlighting the • promoting meetings and and Guided Transport System importance of specific courses for interviews with students at local master degree courses offered by business development and the university campuses; Ecole des Ponts and ENSIAME, evolution of the transport sector. • promoting job offers and accredited by the Universities internships through universities; Conference. Company managers participated • participating at university fairs, at the meetings, mainly held in the alumni reunions, specific workshops; Electrical engineering, Mechanical • targeted work experience and onengineering and Transport faculties the-job training. 164 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Trade associations Ansaldo STS actively participates in UNIFE projects proposing European research projects to improve safety, (association of European railway builders), UNISIG energy efficiency and environmental protection in the field (association of European railway signalling companies) of railway transportation. Specifically, with this project, and UITP (international public transportation association), proposed by the railway JTI SHIFT2RAIL, ASTS aims to ANIE (National Federation of Electrotechnical and reduce emissions, for a modal shift in transportation, in Electronic Companies), AICQ (Italian Association for a line with that indicated in the transportation white book Quality Culture), the Italian partner of EFQM (European published by the EU Commission. Foundation for Quality Management), Cosila (consortium for safety in the workplace) and Unione degli Industriali/ Furthermore, also as part of UNIFE, Ansaldo STS sits Confindustria (Industrialists’ Union/Italy’s main on the Sustainable Transport Committee, which aims to organisation representing Italian manufacturing and define a common, consistent and effective consensus in service companies), in Naples and Genoa, specifically. the railway industry with respect to environmental issues and, particularly, energy efficiency (reliable standards to In the scope of UNIFE, Ansaldo STS collaborates to, measure energy consumption), the evaluation of the life among other things, promote the extension of the use cycle as one of the main criteria in the decision-making of railway transportation through the implementation process, eco-procurement and noiseand emissionof technological standards (ERTMS and TSI) and by reduction. Art Station Toledo of the Metro Naples line 1 165 ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY Market characteristics 168 Business model 169 Strategy 170 Value directly generated and distributed 172 Customer satisfaction 173 Ansaldo STS and its banks and insurance companies 177 Shareholders 178 Ansaldo STS’s economic sustainability is its strategic answer to the macroeconomic context and transportation market trends, based on a business model that develops distinctive abilities and the necessary skills to boost the company’s competitiveness on markets growth in human and organisational capital. Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Revenue + 13% from € 1,230 million to € 1,384 million (2013*-2015) EBIT + 16% ROS from 9.5% to 9.8% (2013*-2015) Net profit + 24 % from € 75 million to € 93 million (2013*-2015) EVA + 21 % from € 54 million to € 66 million Order portfolio + 15 % from € 5,567 million (2013-2015) to € 6,410 million (2013*-2015) Net financial debt +38% from €245 million to €339 million (2013*-2015) Share performance + from € 7.85 to € 9.87 (2013*-2015) 26 % V2A programme: Lean (cost optimisation), New Road (purchase cost reduction), Top Line (new market opportunities) Customer Satisfaction: a system of customer monitoring, control, reporting and discussion tools Project Lifecycle € 1,354 Value distributed to stakeholders million (+4.8%) Management processes to control operating risks *R  estated Figures following the application of IFRS11 governing joint arrangements qualified as joint ventures, which are consolidated with the equity method as of 1 January 2014 (date of implementation by the Ansaldo STS Group). The 2013 figures have been updated to ensure a consistent comparison of the data compared. 167 Economic sustainability | Market characteristics Market characteristics Economic sustainability is therefore increasingly tied demographic growth and economic development in to social and environmental aspects, both at company emerging countries and the result is that the global level and in terms of market scenarios. Ansaldo STS transportation market will shift ever more towards has evaluated the repercussions on transportation rail transport that is safe, efficient and capable of systems that macrotrends involving variables meeting growing environmental concerns. related to the environment, health and safety, THE MARKET AND ANSALDO STS’S POSITION The market and its evolution Ansaldo STS’s position Ansaldo STS’s position Ansaldo STS’s market remains Ansaldo STS boasts solid roots Ansaldo STS’s product portfolio sound and shows global growth in industrialised countries’ includes traditional technologies rates of around 2% to 3% per markets and it is well positioned and innovative, high-tech annum. The key market drivers in emerging markets. It can meet transportation solutions. remain positive: growth in global demand thanks to its global trade and growing traffic, demonstrated skills and expertise Price pressure urbanisation, environmental in delivering on time and according Competition pressure continues concerns, expanding emerging to budget. to intensify between the world’s markets, infrastructures and leading players, triggering a intermodal transport. In part due Traditional and emerging significant reduction in unit prices, to urbanisation trends, emerging technologies mainly in the signalling sector, markets are growing faster than ERTMS, CBTC and driverless where Ansaldo STS responds highly industrialised nations, technologies are becoming global with both innovation and product increasing their relative weight. standards. Focus is now shifting differentiation, continuously However, there are also sound to the technological innovations striving to improve its efficiency growth opportunities to be found destined to dominate the market in and effectiveness by creating in the United States and Australia the next few years, GNSSS (Global specific plans. as well as the signalling segment. Navigation Satellite System), used The result of these trends is a in remote areas with low traffic and Ansaldo STS’s position reduction in Western Europe’s that are difficult to reach.. Ansaldo STS has built its business weight. model around customers, ensuring product flexibility and maintaining competitive prices by standardising products and implementing efficiency-boosting projects. 168 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Business model Ansaldo STS’s abilities and organisation fully meet the on the environment and safety. It facilitates the need to innovate in order to boost transportation efficiency standardisation of solutions, while also developing and safety and reduce the environmental impact. the ability to create customised products for different customer needs. It has the necessary financial Ansaldo STS is, indeed, a company that operates soundness to meet future challenges, lead innovation on a global market. It boasts great flexibility in and make the most of growth opportunities by meeting international demand and is open to new promoting new projects. Ansaldo STS’s business markets. It carries out research and development model is customer based, and enables it to forge for transportation solutions that focus in particular fruitful, long-lasting relationships at global level. ANSALDO STS’ BUSINESS MODEL Technological leadership in terms of safety No dependence on rolling and the environment stock supplies only Ansaldo STS offers integrated solutions based on privileged partnerships technological leadership in terms of safety and the Ansaldo STS is capable of aligning its solutions environment and holds a predominant technical leadership to any rolling stock supplier and is flexible position in certain market segments (ERTMS, driverless, in the design and creation of the selected solution. mass transit, HSL, etc.). Prime Contractor Solid roots and growth wherever the Technological Integrator A partner throughout the demand is customer’s entire value chain Long-standing technological leader in the s Ansaldo STS is leader in the supply of il W western world, growth in emerging market ork cutting-edge integrated transportation Signall er s economies, investments in R&D, continuous Vehicle Othstem solutions by combining traditional and nons Civ monitoring of deadlines and budget. sy traditional technologies and operation and Sub ing maintenance services. Operation and Maintenance Serving the customer’s future needs Global organisation Financial support to customers Ansaldo STS can leverage its sound net Ansaldo STS can meet the new 3,772 professionals offer financial position and innovate its profitability requirements of markets, such as driverless global research, expertise, model by introducing pay/per use formulas on freight transportation, the introduction and experience, know-how and long-term contracts and optimising the total integration of extremely safe technology that best practices wherever the cost of ownership for its key customers. guarantees operating efficiency. market needs them. 169 Economic sustainability | Strategy Strategy Ansaldo STS is committed to maintaining and 3. Flexibility and efficiency: maintain its competitive developing a series of distinctive abilities and expertise edge by optimising the business model with a focus that create value and guarantee long-lasting company on the flexibility of the offer and operating efficiency. growth over time. This commitment can be seen in the  company’s three strategic trajectories: Efficiency is one of the strategic levers in which Ansaldo STS invests to bolster its competitive 1. Selectivity: focus on markets where it has a strong position and ensure excellence in the performance competitive position. Ansaldo STS’s growth is the of activities. To pursue these aims, it has launched result of a continuous process beginning with its an improvement programme that covers all company awareness of its positioning and competitive edge, areas and exploits the opportunities arising from its the identification of market opportunities in relation global organisation. to its competitive levers and their translation into action plans. This process has led to the definition In order to ensure the implementation of all of strategic markets – the domestic market and efficiency initiatives, and, in general, all strategic the areas in which the company has a significant, initiatives, Ansaldo STS has developed an Action recognised presence, as well as markets presenting Implementation Monitoring (AIM) system. Through growth opportunities, by focussing on large projects AIM, the following have been defined: with low overheads. • the definition process for action and monitoring plans; 2. Innovation: focus on innovation as a lever to gain • the governance rules to ensure the frequency of competitive edge for long-term growth. review meetings focused on initiatives and the identification of any corrective action in the event of Ansaldo STS’s innovation strategy to increase turnover critical areas; is based on improving the products it currently offers • tools to support management of the initiatives. customers and differentiating its product portfolio to expand the offer, extending its business model The contribution that Ansaldo STS expects of AIM is: by offering complementary services that meet • completeness: having a consistent, updated picture its customers’ specific needs (management and of all initiatives underway; maintenance activities) and meeting the specific • consistency: doing what has been proposed and needs of customers given their particular geographical following up on it until implementation; situations (complex areas with low traffic volumes), • initiatives explicitly linked to company plans. offering cutting-edge satellite technology solutions. 170 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report The V2A project and requires the entire company workforce to change V2A stands for “Values to Actions”, the company’s their mentality. In 2014 and 2015, the workstream most important strategic change programme set up at identified gross internal cost cutting of over €60 the start of 2014. It strategically links the company’s million for the entire life cycle. values to its improvement and transformation project. This project’s aim is to make Ansaldo STS more The New Road workstream is the natural development efficient and effective and, hence, more competitive and continuation of other supplier optimisation on the market, thanks to the launch of important, projects aimed at cutting overall external purchase innovative and challenging changes in how the costs. The project selected certain cost macrocompany manages its operations and allocates categories considered strategic. Detailed specific its resources, how it manages suppliers and its possibilities to create efficiency were identified commercial strategy without neglecting its values, its for each macro-category of costs, with their background and its people. implementation expected to generate results in the medium and long term. Procurement optimisation V2A is broken down into three macro workstreams. tools range from more commercial mechanisms like finding suppliers in non-traditional countries The Lean workstream has the goal of identifying ways or combining the purchases of several projects to to optimise internal costs and includes some of the negotiate discounts, to more technical tools. Various entire Programme’s most complex and challenging department areas on a global scale are involved initiatives, aimed at simplifying the delivery process in the project, promoting and strengthening best by slashing waste. The initiatives rolled out target practices in external cost management throughout the identifying areas with potential for improvement in entire organisation. The gross results of this project order to boost product quality, cut internal costs for 2014 and 2015 show more than €120 million in and speed up delivery times. Hundreds of people greater efficiency for the entire life cycle. from all over the world are already on-board the V2A Lean activities and the Value Stream Mapping (VSM) The aim of the Top Line workstream is to find new tool has been used to analyse the processes for all market opportunities that ensure sound margins and main signalling and system integration technologies. relatively short life cycles (from the order to revenue The team has quantified the level of waste (roughly generation) compared to traditional projects. In 2014 20-30% on average) and identified ways to improve and 2015, the focus was mainly on components and operating methods to eliminate (or significantly cut services and in the same period, the workstream down) identified wastage. The improvement identified gross improvement potential of over €30 proposals were put together in a “Lean Catalogue”. million covering the entire life cycle. In 2014 and 2015, the Lean catalogue ideas were progressively applied to all projects and, in the Specific communication campaigns targeting the meantime, the catalogue was expanded upon. In the entire workforce have supported the V2A project, scope of this workstream, specific focus was given to spreading awareness of Ansaldo STS’s new modus streamlining the staffing for projects and optimising operandi. The main slogan was “Share the passion, the use of all company resources. Ansaldo STS’s a call for action!”, inciting all employees to take part Lean Methodology is a bona fide cultural revolution in in the company’s transformation through their own how company activities and processes are managed professional contribution. 171 Economic sustainability | Value directly generated and distributed Value directly generated and distributed Ansaldo STS recognises the importance of balancing By analysing distributed economic value, Ansaldo STS the distribution of value generated by its activities studies the flow of resources directed towards its to stakeholders, the value that they have directly or employees, suppliers, service providers, lenders, the public indirectly contributed to generating. administration and the communities in which it is present. ECONOMIC VALUE DIRECTLY GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED (€/000) 2015 2014 Economic value generated 1,438,285 1,365,239 Revenue 1,383,837 1,303,508 Other revenue 18,284 27,964 Financial income 36,164 33,767 Profit from non-current assets held for sale 0 0 Value distributed 1,354,077 1,292,352 Operating costs (procurement, services and investments) 907,841 855,582 Employee remuneration 321,676 316,522 Shareholder remuneration 30,000 28,800 Lender remuneration 46,369 42,768 Public administration remuneration 47,429 47,607 Donations and sponsorshiops 762 1,073 Economic value withheld 84,208 72,887 Depreciation, amortisation, impairment losses and adjustments 21,172 20,993 Self-financing 63,036 51,894 The value generated by the Group reached •€  30.0 million to shareholders in the form of approximately €1.44 billion, up 5.4% on 2014. dividends30; • €0.8 million to the community in the form of The value withheld by the company amounts to gifts, donations and sponsorships (with or without €84.2 million, and mainly consists of amortisation, publicity). depreciation, impairment losses and accruals to provisions for risks, along with the self-financing that 2015 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED (%) was generated. €1.35 billion was distributed among the following 3.4 3.5 stakeholders: Lender remuneration Public 0.1 administration Donations and • the largest amount, or roughly €907.8 million, relates to costs incurred to purchase materials 2.2 remuneration sponsorships (suppliers), services (contractors and subShareholder contractors) and other goods; remuneration • approximately €321.7 million to employees, mainly for wages, salaries, social security and pension contributions and defined contribution plans; • approximately €47.4 million to the tax authorities 23.8 Employee and other local bodies for direct and indirect taxes; • €46.4 million to lenders for interest and remuneration 67.0 Operating costs commissions, financial expense and operating (procurement, exchange rate differences; services and investments) 30. The most indicative data for the distribution of value would have been dividends on the profit for 2014. However, this figure was not available before the shareholders’ approval of the Sustainability Report. Indeed, at the same meeting, the shareholders are to approve the dividend to be distributed on the profit for 2014. Accordingly, we deem it appropriate to publish equity distributions in the year. 172 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction is central to Ansaldo STS’s Ansaldo STS operates with customers mainly consisting strategy: the ability to understand customers’ needs and of public institutions on long-term projects. It is therefore expectations and meet them is the top value on which affected by a myriad of external factors such as the it bases its company culture. In general, each customer macroeconomic scenario and the consequent availability has a contact at Ansaldo STS, a specific Project Manager of sources of financing and the need to operate, especially overseeing its contract. in terms of urban public transportation projects in city centres with many interferences that could impact the The Project Manager is responsible for ensuring the steady performance completion of a project and influence customer is satisfied, responding to any issues that might the quality of life of the local communities. arise over the course of the contract. Clearly, in a context such as this, project management The organisation of proposal activities and project skills and processes are essential for the achievement of management is fundamental to carrying out a project the pre-determined objectives and to ensure sustainability that meets the quality requirements of the products and with stakeholders. To this end, it is necessary to identify services offered and in order to provide them according and monitor any uncertainties typical of the business to deadline and budget restrictions. To this end, project and, more in general, to manage risks. Ansaldo STS has management is a vital tool in protecting the interests of implemented appropriate life cycle management and risk Ansaldo STS’s stakeholders, including shareholders, who assessment procedures to monitor project performance are mainly focused on the results of the business, and by regularly comparing physical and accounting progress its customers, who want to receive top quality responses and consequently identifying any discrepancies using according to established schedules in line with the earned value techniques, with the resulting identification transportation needs of a city or the community at large. of appropriate action plans aimed at maintaining the objectives of the project. In this area, the most significant development in market dynamics in recent years has entailed the progressive The risk assessment process provides for the identification shift from the provision of products and technologies of all significant risks already at the bidding stage and their to customers’ demand for transportation solutions that monitoring throughout the entire life cycle of the project, in efficiently meet the needs of local and national institutions. order to immediately identify potential mitigation actions This new type of offer requires an ability to work alongside to be taken. Furthermore, in accordance with international customers, who are increasingly less frequently considered best practices, Ansaldo STS directly collaborates, when buyers and ever more partners, in the management of required, with customers to manage risks together, a project throughout its entire life cycle, taking action, thereby minimising their impact, not only in terms of risks if necessary, in project financing initiatives as well, and for Ansaldo STS, but for the end customer as well, and, thereby with private sources of funding, and consequent accordingly, for all stakeholders. In this respect, Ansaldo involvement in not only the design and construction, STS has created standard procedures that it uses for but the subsequent management and maintenance of integrated risk management with end customers. solutions as well. Art Station Metro Naples line 1 173 Economic sustainability | Customer satisfaction Control of project operational risks To mitigate risks relating to the quality, deadlines and responsibility) and review processes of estimates costs of a project, Ansaldo STS: during bidding; • adopts risk management processes, both during the • provides for an independent review of projects by the bidding and project performance stages, to minimise risk management function; the consequences of negative events and maximise • exerts constantly control, including through suitable the impact of positive events, through constant performance indicators that measure efficiency and monitoring of risks and opportunities; effectiveness and assess the company’s maturity in • adopts project life cycle management processes the risk management process; based on the constant comparison of physical • identifies, for each project, specific risk mitigation, progress with accounting progress, in addition to opportunity and contingency actions. periodic independent stage review processes for certain projects; Additional action is planned to improve the efficiency • clearly assigns responsibilities to the project manager and effectiveness of control processes and to and project controller; harmonise these processes, in line with existing best • provides for managerial review of project performance practices. (periodic reviews at the various levels of managerial Customer satisfaction A specific team handles Customer •C  ustomer Satisfaction Monthly customer. Since the end of 2012, Satisfaction (“CS”) activities. The Reports: quarterly reports prepared 18 interviews have been conducted team is made of the managers with the support of the business (Spain railways, Swedish railways of the various functions: Strategy, unit managers on critical projects. [twice], British railways, Italian Quality & Improvement, Business To date, 22 critical projects have railways, French railways, HyundaiUnit Railways & Mass Transit and been mapped. The Project Manager Rotem [twice], Aurizon, Sydney Freight, RAMS (Reliability, Availability is responsible for reporting on Trains, Calibre Rail, Insigma and Maintainability & Safety) and critical points (in terms of planning, [twice] and customers of the Operations. quality and costs) and the related Taipei, Washington, Copenhagen mitigation action. A statistical and Stockholm metros [twice]). Customer Satisfaction activities analysis on the development of Customer feedback is sent after consist of various stages and are these critical points is attached to any corrective action has been carried out using different tools the report. defined and performed following an to accurately monitor customer • Customer Satisfaction Survey: evaluation of the questionnaires satisfaction level and the progress a series of one-on-one interviews received. of projects until their completion. with top representatives of a • Post Commissioning Reports: These tools include: sample of customers. This survey reports included in the methodology • Customer Satisfaction Monthly begins with a letter signed by the defined by the Customer Meetings: monthly meetings via CEO of Ansaldo STS sent to the Satisfaction team for the RAM videoconferencing, to discuss CS customer’s CEO. It is carried out Reliability, Availability and activities and reach decisions on using a specific questionnaire Maintainability – analysis of certain the steps to be taken. attached to the letter to the large projects. 174 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report •C  omplaints Management, the checks the global results and their Based on the Customer Satisfaction Project Managers are responsible consistency with expectations. Survey and direct interviews with for recording customers’ complains, • Customer Satisfaction Reports: customers in 2015, the average which are sent each quarter to the reports prepared half-yearly by the scores comparing Ansaldo STS Customer Satisfaction Coordinator, Customer Satisfaction Leader. products with competitors (the range until the complaint is resolved. These reports summarise CS of scores goes from 1, extremely The Customer Satisfaction Team activities in the period (CS of the unsatisfied, to 10, extremely satisfied) checks and records all information Project Teams, complaints analysis are given below). and, twice a year, prepares a and focus on various projects) and global analysis. This analysis is are sent to the company’s senior used as the basis to calculate the management. They are included in “customer complaint” KPI. the Management Review. • Customer Satisfaction of Project Teams, customer satisfaction is evaluated for each key project considering the following main aspects: contract value, project duration/delay, service quality Ansaldo STS products from a technical point of view 7.5 and product quality. The Regional Best competitor products technically 7.0 BU managers gather the results Ansaldo STS products cost/value 6.6 of these surveys from the Project Managers. Finally, the CS Team Best competitor cost/value 6.2 175 Economic sustainability | Customer satisfaction Responsible litigation management Disputes between Ansaldo STS Currently, Ansaldo STS S.p.A. is two for damage as per article 1172 and its customers are mainly involved in nine civil, administrative of the Italian Civil Code and two “physiological” in nature, i.e., they court and arbitration cases (as claims for damages. mainly relate to financial claims either claimant or respondent). made by Ansaldo STS in the form of Proceedings are currently underway retentions for extra costs incurred Litigation involving significant regarding alleged damage caused within the context of works carried amounts is monitored quarterly by the collapse of the building out in the performance of projects. in accordance with current in Riviera di Chiaia, 72 and an If not included in subsequent procedures, and the flow of agreement has been reached to amendments or riders or defined communications in place ensures rebuild the building, obtaining on amicable terms, the claims that new updates are immediately authorisation for reimbursement submitted from time to time can known and the related information for the works from the insurance lead to cases brought before courts is reported in order to meet companies. or arbitration panels specified in the company requirements. With contract. The number of such cases respect to the subsidiaries, in both Also in collaboration with the is always below a physiological the Railways & Mass Transit and insurance companies, the company average of contracts underway. Freight business units, there is no is gradually reaching agreements litigation or risks so material that for the compensation for damage Nevertheless, Ansaldo STS they merit specific note. to the third parties affected by the often tends to reach settlement collapse. This would facilitate the agreements, considering: The company is involved in one overall management of the claim • settlement to be a normal criminal case arising from a claim and avoid a large number of civil instrument to resolve disputes dated 4 March 2013 following the appearances in the scope of the arising for retentions, and it is partial collapse of a building at criminal proceedings underway. also being used in the preliminary Via Riviera di Chiaia 72 – Naples, stages of ordinary cases as well which, allegedly could have been The company does not yet have pending legislation (Legislative caused by work in progress to a clear idea of the amount of decree no. 28/2010) that build the Arco Mirelli station of the damages that may be awarded provides for mediation to seek Naples Metro Line 6. The company upon conclusion of the different settlement upon the claimant’s holds the work concession for this negotiations underway with the initiative; project, assigned to it by the Naples damaged parties. • settlements represent an municipal authorities. excellent way to improve relations with the customers involved in The alleged crimes currently remain the relevant disputes, and provide those confirmed when the two value added, where, as is the case respondents pursuant to articles of Ansaldo STS, the customer is 676 and 434 of the Italian Criminal usually perceived as a privileged Code were sent to trial, respectively: partner with which significant “Destruction of buildings or other long-term relationships must be constructions” and “Collapse of established. constructions or disasters due to negligence”. To this end, litigation management, as illustrated above, cannot be Only one preliminary hearing was separated from the principle of held in 2015, during which the considering customers’ economic list of witnesses was lodged. The and business interests in the subsequent hearings scheduled current political and economic for 2016 should only involve situation. Therefore, the approach discussion. adopted by Ansaldo STS is aimed at ensuring success not only in With regard to civil legal proceedings court, but also credit recovery in related to the collapse of the the short term, which may include building, to date, there are a total of conventional debt restructuring 12 pending disputes, including four agreements with its customers. for preventive technical assessment, 176 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Ansaldo STS and its banks and insurance companies Ansaldo STS aims to create true partnerships with multi-product approach in order to avoid amassing leading banks in order to optimise the support specific businesses at one bank, while simultaneously it receives in its business activities which are achieving cost efficiency. developing in ever more far flung countries which thus pose difficulties and unique aspects in relation to Ansaldo STS has relationships with leading global financing and banking. banks: Intesa Sanpaolo, UniCredit, CitiGroup, ING, Credit Agricole, BNP Paribas, JP Morgan Chase, HSBC, This means the company needs a reliable bank, Nordea, Saudi British bank, Riyad bank, Sumitomo preferably with a local branch abroad, in order to and Bank of Tokyo. Its “prime” bank transactions support the various stages of the operating process, relate to (current and non-current) borrowings, from assessing bids for tenders to setting up local investments, bank guarantees, bonds, project branches to finalise one or more projects acquired. financing, documentary credits, treasury transactions, treasury management (liquidity, payment and Thus, Ansaldo STS’s strategy is rooted in good, collection management) and financial consultancy. well-established relations with banks. It uses a Securities and bonds types and amounts Ansaldo STS negotiated a set Over 60% of guarantees issued The main issuers were: amount of credit lines in order to for group companies are indirect, • 26 banks (35% of the guarantee support its bond and guarantee thus through banks, in favour of the amounts were used); requirements, which are useful beneficiary. Advance payment bonds • 15 insurance companies (10% for facilitating business growth. are the guarantee instrument of of the guarantee amounts were The lack of the ability to obtain choice as they enable a purchaser used). guarantees could prevent contracts to be reimbursed advance payments from being clinched with customers. on contracts or orders should the supplier breach the contract. In 2015 alone, the company negotiated and obtained additional Guarantees amount for Ansaldo STS endorsement credit of €365 million, SpA to approximately €3.765 billion including a line with Sumitomo and at 31 December 2015. Bank of Tokyo amounting to €330 million. 177 Economic sustainability | Shareholders Shareholders Ansaldo STS is listed on the FTSE mid-cap and Star Ansaldo STS’s corporate governance system is designed to segments of the Italian Stock Exchange for top companies maximise value for shareholders, monitor business risks that meet specific, binding requirements: high levels of and achieve transparency with the market balancing the transparency and disclosure, excellent liquidity (35% interests of all its shareholders, especially its small ones. minimum free float) and corporate governance in line with international standards. Share capital and dividends Ansaldo STS’s subscribed and 20,000,000 newly issued ordinary A correct interpretation of the type of paid-in share capital amounts to shares. On 14 July 2014, the fifth transaction has been given in each €100,000,000 at 31 December and last instalment was issued. announcement, also so as to meet 2015, consisting of 200,000,000 the relevant legal requirements, ordinary shares with a unit value The shares issued in each with considerable emphasis on of €0.50. No other categories of instalment are distributed with an the methods of the share capital shares or financial instruments allotment ratio for newly issued increase and explanations to convertible into or exchangeable shares calculated on the basis of shareholders/investors, also with shares have been issued. outstanding share capital at the verifying that the media and other date each individual instalment is entities have correctly presented the During their extraordinary issued. type of transaction. meeting on 23 April 2010, the shareholders approved a share capital increase through a bonus Investor No. of shares % held issue of €50,000,000, to be HITACHI RAIL ITALY INVESTMENTS 80,131,081 40.066 carried out using the entire reserve for capital injections UBS 12,826,677 6.413 of €47,679 thousand and the OLD MUTUAL PLC 5,941,981 2.970 reserve for goodwill arising on merger for the residual €2,321 AMBER CAPITAL 4,762,795 2.381 thousand, issuing 100 million new OVERALL LONG POSITIONS ordinary shares with a nominal PAUL E. SINGER 10,398,213 5.199 amount of €0.50 each. The (direct or indirect partner of the limited partnerships Elliott International, LP Elliott share capital increase was to Associates, LP and The Liverpool Limited Partnership) be carried out by 31 December 2014 in five annual instalments of €10,000,000 each, consisting of 178 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Earnings per share and dividend The company distributed dividends for the first time in (in Euros) 2015 2014 2013 2007 after its stock market listing on 29 March 2006. Basic and diluted EPS 0.47 0.43 0.40** In relation to 2015, the company will propose a Dividend per share 0.18* 0.15 0.144** dividend of roughly €36 million to the shareholders’ meeting in 2016, corresponding to €0.18 for each * As proposed to the shareholders. ** Recalculated following the bonus issue of 14 July 2014. of the dividend-bearing shares. 179 Economic sustainability | Shareholders Investor Relations Ansaldo STS’s main objective is to Various surveys with Financial analysts are seen as maintain ongoing dialogue with the counterparties confirmed the important stakeholders, vital for Italian and international financial overall positive opinion of the understanding the company set-up, community, providing sensitive Investor Relations team’s work, the business and the strategies information to the market in a acknowledged as the company’s adopted by management. timely and transparent manner main point of contact with the and ensuring the correct valuation financial community. Total actual coverage went from of the company, in line with its 13 investment banks in 2014 to business model, strategies and The function is also admired for its 10 in 2015, mainly following the targets. excellent know-how of the market 24 February 2015 announcement and the company’s business that Finmeccanica would sell This is why the Investor Relations model and strengths/weaknesses, its 40% shareholding to Hitachi function reporting directly to the shared by the function head during and the latter would then launch Chief Financial Officer constantly meetings. The Investor Relations a mandatory public tender for meets with the financial community function is also known for its Ansaldo STS shares. to gain an understanding of its pro-active and willing approach information needs and to support and the quality of the information Some investment banks provide top management in communication generated. periodic sector research and decisions. 180 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report competitor analyses, which In addition to the usual daily focus Share performance and analysts’ the Investor Relations function on “rumours” and major market rating gathers, studies and distributes news and weekly news reporting From 31 December 2014 to internally, together with the official (IR NEWS), the department 31 December 2015, the share market disclosures. periodically distributes in-depth price rose from €8.33 to €9.87, analyses and updates on the gaining 18.5%. On a quarterly basis before the performance of competitors, financial results are issued, the markets and main business sector The share’s peak for the period Investor Relations department analyses. and overall company record of requests brokers assigned to the €9.90 was recorded on company’s share for their latest Transparency and accuracy of 28 December 2015, while its forecasts on the company’s key information low of €8.19 was recorded on 9 results indicators. The Investor Relations function January 2015. also pursues its mission by The company then calculates ensuring total transparency of An average 1,308,883 shares the averages and sends this communications and offering were traded daily in the period, consensus request back to the market all the necessary compared to 1,038,047 shares the individual brokers, who information for investors to base traded in the previous year. In the can compare it with their own their decisions on complete, period considered, the FTSE Italy forecasts. correct and timely information. All Share index and the FTSE Italy Accordingly, all the company’s STAR index gained 15.4% and This is an accurate update of sellcommunications entail absolute 39.8%, respectively. side analysts’ perception, which compliance with legislative and is discussed and considered by regulatory provisions, but are On 21 December 2015, following management. comprehensible, thorough and the ordinary revision of the FTSE offer consistent disclosure to all MIB index (for the 40 largest This underscores the attention investors. Communications about caps), Borsa Italiana, the company that Ansaldo STS devotes Ansaldo STS outside the company that manages the Italian Stock to considering financial are made exclusively by functions Exchange, announced that it would communications as a two-way appointed for this purpose and exclude Ansaldo STS from the street, in which it is important to in accordance with the company index. Accordingly, the Ansaldo STS gather the market’s perception and procedures aimed at ensuring the share is now traded on the FTSE suggestions, as well as disclosing truthfulness and correct disclosure Italy Star and FTSE Italy Mid Cap information. of such information. indices. With regard to communication Price (indexed to 100) Ansaldo STS S.p.A. FTSE Italia All-Share FTSE Italia Star activities, the annual plan is used 150 to program and develop Investor 140 +39.8% Relations activities. The aim is to spread and communicate 130 the company’s market analyses, policies and strategies. 120 +18.5% +15.4% 110 Though its resources and the quality of its intrinsic activities 100 remained the same, in 2014, the Investor Relations function took Jan-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Set-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 on the monitoring and analysis of the market and the competition, in order to support management. 181 Methodological notes Methodological notes Ansaldo STS’ 2015 Sustainability Report, that reached of 40%. Personnel-related data has been established its 7th edition, has been prepared in accordance with the considering the percentage owned by the Group “G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” issued in 2013 (consolidated using the equity method). by GRI – Global Reporting Initiative, using the “core” reporting option. Balance – In describing the outcomes of Ansaldo STS’ activities, we have sought to reflect both the positive Document contents have been defined according with and negative aspects to give a balanced view of overall the following principles: performance. Stakeholder Inclusiveness – Various activities of Comparability – To enable stakeholders to analyse stakeholders engagement were carried out, as changes in the Group’s performance, the Sustainability described in Stakeholder engagement chapter. Report includes comparative data of the two-year period 2014-2015. In some cases, in order to better describe Sustainability context – In the introductory paragraph the performance trend, the data of the three-year The sustainability of Ansaldo STS , in the period 2013-2015 were exposed. Income statement Sustainability governance and in the Innovation figures, expressed in Euros, have been translated at chapters we have tried to give a clear definition of the the exchange rates indicated in the 2015 consolidated sustainability framework defined by the Group and financial statements. The scope of the data is always on how it is integrated within the business. Further, indicated (in the text or in a note), along with changes without losing an overall view, we have tried to describe compared to previous years. local initiatives, reporting the features of the different markets (see Our people chapter). Accuracy – Results and financial information refer directly to the 2015 Consolidated Financial Statements. Materiality – Ansaldo STS’ Internal Sustainability Committee carried out an update of the analysis of Environmental, health and safety data and information materiality broadening the involvement of certain parties come from certified management systems (ISO 14001 of the following stakeholders categories: suppliers, and OHSAS 18001). Social and personnel data have banks and customers. The opinions expressed by the been mainly extracted from Ansaldo STS’ operating new stakeholders have been added to those of the systems.The boundary of social and personnel stakeholders involved in the previous two years and data matches the one of the Consolidated Financial weighed according to the prioritization assigned by the Statement at December 31, 2015. Any further Group’s management. restictions are indicated in this document. Completeness The report has been designed to The boundary of environmental data and information give stakeholders a complete picture of Ansaldo STS’ has been defined on the basis of the significance of activities. The scope of the report refers to the Group, the Ansaldo STS S.p.A, subsidiary companies and JVs’ as indicated in the 2015 Annual Report. The issues plants and offices. These sites have been identified on relating to the environment, health and safety refer to the basis of the following parameters: subsidiaries’ sites that are considered material, i.e., those with more than 10 employees (see Environmental •n  umber of employees (sites with more than 10 Performance chapter). In the Asia Pacific region, where employees as of 31 December 2015); the Group operates through a joint venture holding • significance of environmental impacts. 182 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Any further restictions are indicated in this document. the basis of the analysis results of materiality and in The conversion rates used for the calculation of GHG order to make the report comprehensible, accessible emissions are those defined by the Greenhouse Gas and usable by the various stakeholders. The document Protocol. refers to the Group’s website for certain matters, indicating the relevant web page address. Timeliness – The Sustainability Report is prepared The Sustainability Report will be distributed in a annually. To best meet the informational needs of “dynamic” PDF format, a short version with highlights stakeholders, where material, events that occurred and a video. after year end are also reported. Reliability – The 2015 Sustainability Report has Clarity – The report has been structured to make been approved by the board of directors on November the information easily identifiable by stakeholders 3, 2016 and subjected to limited assurance by (using icons for different sections and a navigation independent experts (KPMG S.p.A.) in accordance system). The 2015 Sustainability Report opens with with the criteria included in the principle “International the sustainability pillars and the letter from the CEO Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (revised) e General Manager, and includes eight sections: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews Company profile; Sustainability governance; Innovation; of Historical Financial Information” (“ISAE 3000 Environment, health and safety; Our people; Supply revised”) defined by the International Auditing and chain; Public relations; Economic performance. This Assurance Standard Board. KPMG was involved in document ends with the Content Index and the Report the various stages of the reporting process in order of the independent auditors on the Sustainability Report. to facilitate its review, in a constructive climate of The level of detail of information has been defined on collaboration. 183 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI Content Index The following table contains all specific references to the disclosure provided in the Sustainability Report, in accordance with the GRI-G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. KPMG S.p.A. reviewed the Sustainability Report, as a whole, of the Ansaldo STS Group at 31 December 2015, in accordance with ISAE 3000 (Revised). For additional information about the scope of the review and the procedures carried out by the indipendent auditors, please refer to the Indipendent auditors' report on the Sustainability Report. The information summarised in the GRI Content Index is included in the scope of the review. No other information was reviewed. Cross-reference Omission / Reason General standard disclosures Direct answer / Explanation Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the p.6 organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. p.46-47; p.48-53 Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. p.1 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. p.17-23; p. 72-79 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. Back cover G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, p.22-23; p.90-91 and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. p.178 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, p.18-21; 27-28; p.30-31 sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of the organization, including: total number of p.11; p.22; p.26-28; p.81; p.105; employees; total number of operations; net sales (for private sector p.108; p.139; p.149; p.167; p.178 organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); quantity of products or services provided G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract Nearly all employees are full-time. and gender; permanent employees by employment type and The company undertakes to provide gender; total workforce by employees and supervised workers in the next report a breakdown and by gender; total workforce by region and gender; whether by Region and gender of full-time a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed employees. by workers who are legally recognized as selfemployed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees ofcontractors; significant variations in employment numbers. G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective p.135-136 bargaining agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. p.140-146 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding p.26; p.178 the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Regarding the assessment and addressed by the organization. management of inherent risks to its activities, the Group adopting a precautionary approach expressed in the definition of roles and responsibilities, in the periodic and continuous repetition of the process of identification and risk assessment, the continuous monitoring on internal control system, the segregation of roles and subject to adequate authorization processes and traceability of decisions G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social p.65-67 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) p.165 and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: holds a position on the governance body; participates in projects or committees; provides substantive funding beyond routine membership due; views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial Methodological Note; p. 22-23 statements or equivalent documents. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. 184 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Cross-reference Omission / Reason General standard disclosures Direct answer / Explanation G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Methodological Note; p.46-47 Boundaries. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining Methodological Note; p.48-53 report content. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the p.48-53 organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the p.48-53 organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in There were no limitations previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements and variations which may significantly affect comparability between periods. any limitations are from time to time indicated inside the document. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the There were no limitations Scope and Aspect Boundaries. and variations which may significantly affect comparability between periods. any limitations are from time to time indicated inside the document. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. p.56 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders p.54-60 with whom to engage. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, p.54-60; p.115-119; p.150; p.158including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 162; p.163-164; group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was p.180-181 undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through p.46-47; p.60; p.174-175 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. December 31, 2015 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). The Sustainability Report at 31 December 2014 was published in the month of May 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its (p.196) contents. G4-32 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen; Methodological Note and the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below); Content Index the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard Methodological Note; to seeking external assurance for the report; If not included in the Indipendent Auditors' report on the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the Sustainability Report (p.194-195); scope and basis of any external assurance provided; the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers; whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including p. 32-40 committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, p.44-45 environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body p.37 and senior executives G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. p.37; p.125 G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the p.124 organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. 185 GRI CONTENT INDEX Cross-reference Omission / Reason General standard disclosures Direct answer / Explanation G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total p.124 compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and p.12-13; p.64-65 norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on p.34; p.45; p.40; p.134. Reports ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational to the supervisory body; Reports integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. to the code of ethics control body at the legal entities; Reports to the Secretary of the board of directors (who presents the claims sent to managers by employees during board of directors’ meetings) Directors’ report on the corporate governance system and the implementation of the code of conduct for listed companies G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting p.40 concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Aspect: economic performance DMA p.168-171 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p.172 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the p.53; p.86. organization's activities due to climate change G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations p.130 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government p.79 Aspect: market presence DMA p.124. Ansaldo STS assesses the worldwide consistency of responsibilities and remuneration, without distinguishing between countries, gender, culture, etc., in accordance with the company’s values, which protect and promote the equality of all people in all ways. This is why salaries cannot be lower than local minimums, even for newlyhired employees G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local p.124 minimum wage at significant locations of operation Aspect: indirect economic impacts DMA Ansaldo STS tends to procure materials, services and labour mostly on local markets, also with the aim to contribute to the development of local economies G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and p.57-60; p.141 services supported G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of p.57-60. Ansaldo STS’ business impacts generates a positive economic impact outside the company given its use of local employees in construction and O&M and its use of local suppliers. Local labour and local suppliers are often provided for (in specified percentages) by the contractual specifications: in this case, Ansaldo STS contributes to the development of the necessary skills. Aspect: procurement practices DMA Ansaldo STS tends to procure materials, services and labour mostly on local markets, also with the aim to contribute to the development of local economies (e.g.: Honolulu Metro or Copenhagen Metro). G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of When the project provides for several operation years of O&M, nearly 100% of personnel is local. 186 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Cross-reference Omission / Reason General standard disclosures Direct answer / Explanation CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Aspect: materials DMA p.78; p.94; p.98 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p.94. Most of the raw materials used in production by Ansaldo STS Group companies are not recycled as the finished product must meet high quality and safety standards, required by legislation G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials p.78; p.98. Most of the raw materials used in production by group companies are not recycled as the finished product must meet high quality and safety standards, required by legislation Aspect: energy DMA p.53; G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization p.92. Ansaldo STS Group does not use direct renewable energy sources. G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization p.92. It is not currently possible to identify the amount of primary fuel consumed in generating electrical energy. The consumption of fuel in generating electrical energy can be inferred from the energy mix of the countries where Ansaldo Group operates. G4-EN5 Energy intensity p.92 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption p.62; p.87 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services p.76-77; p.158-162 Aspect: water DMA p.95 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p.95 G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused In general, Ansaldo STS does not have processes or production cycles that reuse water. Aspect: biodiversity DMA p.47 G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, The two sites are near protected areas: protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside • Les Ulis (France) – total area of 20,000 protected areas square metres – 40% offices – 30% roads and car parks – 30% green areas – activities: administration, sales, electronic system testing (ISO 14001). The protected area covers 3,000 m3 in the Bois del Gellesche http://www.essonne. fr/fileadmin/patrimoine_naturel/sitesnaturels/Villebon-sur-Yvette-Foret_du_ Bois_des_Gelles.pdf • Tito Scalo (Pz) – total area of 40,000 square metres – 21% plant, warehouses and offices – 19% roads and car parks – 60% green areas – activities: manual and automated welding of circuit boards and occasional painting of the same (ISO 14001 and EMAS). It is 3 km from the WWF Pantano di Pignola Natural Regional Reserve, a Site of Community Importance (SCI) and a Special Protected Area (SPA) (SIC-ZPS IT9210142) in Pignola (Piacenza). It is also a RAMSAR area (http://www.wwf.it/oasi/basilicata/ pantano_di_pignola/). The immateriality of the site’s activity with respect to biodiversity is due to the fact that the only biodiversity indicator in the site EMAS is: number of employees based on surface area. G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored p.98-99 Aspect: emissions DMA p. 53; p.86-87 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) p.88-89 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) p.88-89 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) p.88-89 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity p.89 187 GRI CONTENT INDEX Cross-reference Omission / Reason General standard disclosures Direct answer / Explanation G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions p. 62; p.87. Initiatives mainly related to: reduction in consumption and increase in energy efficiency, people mobility. G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) p.98. Ansaldo STS does not emit ozone depleting substances. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions p. 95 Aspect: effluents and waste DMA p.53; p.95-98; G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination p.95-96 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p.96-98 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills p.99. In 2015 no significant spill was not detected G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed p.96-98. Hazardous waste is treated by hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and external specialised agencies that pick it VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally up directly from the company. Aspect: products and services DMA p.53; p.76-77 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products p.76-77 and services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are p.98 reclaimed by category Aspect: compliance DMA p.52 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonp.99. During 2015 there were no fines and monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance and regulations with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: transport DMA p.87 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and p.87; p.88. The energy used to transport other goods and materials for the organization's operations, and goods and people comes from diesel, petrol transporting members of the workforce and jet fuel. People are transported using cars and aeroplanes. Goods are transported mainly by road, ship and air. Aspect: overall DMA p.103 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by p.103. Ansaldo STS undertakes to type provide investment breakdown by type in the next report. Aspect: supplier environmental assessmentori DMA p.51;p.142 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using p.142 environmental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in During 2015 there were no significant the supply chain and actions taken actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Aspect: environmental grievance mechanisms DMA p.99 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, p.99 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Aspect: employment DMA p.106; p.126; p.132 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee p.110 turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided p.126-129.The reported benefits to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of refer to employees working under operation both open-ended and fixed-term contracts, and not include company credit cards G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender p.132 Aspect: labor/management relations DMA p.136 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including p.136 whether these are specified in collective agreements 188 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Cross-reference Omission / Reason General standard disclosures Direct answer / Explanation Aspect: occupational health and safety DMA p.51; p.100 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint p.102 management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and saftey programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, p.101. There were no fatalities in and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by 2013-2014. The following formulae region and by gender were used to calculate injury indicators: •F  requency rate = Number of injuries (excluding those on the way to and from work) / Total hours worked X 200,000 •S  eriousness rate = Number of days of temporary incapacity / Total hours worked X 200,000 G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade p.136. In most countries in which unions Ansaldo STS operates, national labour agreements govern workers’ health and safety. In Italy, these aspects are included in the national labour agreement. The aspects covered by such agreements relate, inter alia, to the following: • occupational health and safety risk assessment; • prevention and management of emergencies; • environmental protection; • monitoring of anti-injury data; • proposing new initiatives to update workers on any specific risks and/ or issues relating to site environmental impacts Aspect: training and education DMA p.51; p.113 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by p.113 employee category G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support p.113 the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career p.118 development reviews, by gender and by employee category Aspect: diversity and equal opportunity DMA p.65; p.106; p.132 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees p.33; p.107-110; p.132 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Aspect: equal remuneration for women and men DMA p.124 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by p.124 employee category, by significant locations of operation Aspect: supplier assessment for labor practices DMA p.142-143 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor p.142 practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor During 2015 there were no significant practices in the supply chain and actions taken actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain Aspect: labor practices grievance mechanisms DMA p.137 G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and p.137 resolved through formal grievance mechanisms SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Aspect: investment DMA Ethical Code (p.10) 189 GRI CONTENT INDEX Cross-reference Omission / Reason General standard disclosures Direct answer / Explanation G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements Ethical Code (p.10). The final evaluation and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent of Ansaldo STS partners considers the human rights screening code of ethics, in which the company undertakes to abstain from dealings with entities that violate human rights protection and labour regulations and laws. The code of ethics is part of the contractual documentation. Ansaldo STS does not currently perform human rights assessments. By 2016, it will complete the integration of its general terms for supply agreements with clauses providing for sanctions in the event of code of ethics violations G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or p.64; p.113 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: non-discrimination DMA p.65; p.67; p.120 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions No discrimination was noted taken Aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining DMA p.65; p.134-6; p.142; G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Ansaldo STS has not identified freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated suppliers that violate workers’ or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights association rights. Aspect: child labor DMA p.142-143 G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Ansaldo STS does not have suppliers incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the or activities believed to present risk of effective abolition of child labor child labour. Aspect: forced or compulsory labor DMA p.142-143 G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk Ansaldo STS does not have suppliers for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to or activities believed to present risk of contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory forced labour. labor Aspect: security practices DMA p.64; p.113 G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's Training on human rights at Ansaldo human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations STS is based on knowledge of the content of the code of ethics, which involves the entire Group. When new employees are hired and/or new freelancers begin to collaborate, Ansaldo STS immediately provides the necessary information to give them sufficient knowledge of the code of ethics and protocols, with particular regard to those relating to specific skills. Aspect: indigenous rights DMA p.52; p.57 G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of During 2015 there were no violations indigenous peoples and actions taken involving rights of indigenous peoples Aspect: assessment DMA p.52; p.64-65 G4-HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Ansaldo STS does not currently indigenous peoples and actions taken perform specific assessments of the impact on human rights, but it complies with legal provisions and national and international regulations in this respect. Aspect: supplier human rights assessment DMA p.51; p.142 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human p.142 rights criteria G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in Ansaldo STS in 2015 has not the supply chain and actions taken identified significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain 190 Ansaldo STS | 2015 Sustainability Report Cross-reference Omission / Reason General standard disclosures Direct answer / Explanation Aspect: human rights grievance mechanisms DMA p.64 G4-HR12 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human There were no complaints relating rights criteria to a lack of respect for human rights by outside stakeholders or internally through reports to the code of ethics control bodies in each group company (sent to specific email addresses). SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY Aspect: local communities DMA p.4; p.47; p.52 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community p.57-60; p.155-157; p.162-164. engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts p.57-60; p.155-157; p.162-164. With on local communities the extension of the application of the code of ethics to all group companies, all internal divisions at risk are monitored. Aspect: anti-corruption DMA p.40; p.48; p.66 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations asessed for risks p.40; p.66; p.156.Ansaldo STS related to corruption and the significant risks identified undertakes to provide data in the next report on the percentage of managers and other non-manager employees operating in activities considered to be at risk who have received training in this respect. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and p.64; p.66 procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken p.64 Aspect: public policy DMA Ethical Code (p.10) G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ “The company does not provide any beneficiary direct or indirect contributions of any kind to political parties, movements, committees or organisations or their representatives or candidates, except for those due under specific provisions of law” (Code of ethics, page 10) Aspect: anti-competitive behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiThere were no incidents in this trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes respect. Aspect: compliance DMA p.52 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonThere were no monetary or nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations monetary sanctions due to noncompliance with laws or regulations in 2015 Aspect: supplier assessment for impacts on society DMA p. 142 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for p. 142 impacts on society Aspect: grievance mechanisms for impacts on society DMA p.52 G4-S11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, There were no grievances about impacts and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms in 2015 SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Aspect: customer health and safety DMA p.50; p.75-76 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which p.75-76. There is a methodology in health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement place to control safety risks, and it is in line with regulations and standards (which are “labelled” on the product) applicable to all products and systems. 191 GRI CONTENT INDEX Cross-reference Omission / Reason General standard disclosures Direct answer / Explanation G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations p.75-76. There were no accidents, and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of consisting of deaths, injuries or products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes damage to infrastructures due to defects in products supplied by Ansaldo STS. None of the minor non-conformities noted internally or by customer complaints entailed sanctions or measures. Aspect: product and service labeling DMA p.50; p.75-76 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the p.75-76.There is a methodology in organization's procedures for product and service information place to control safety risks, and it is and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service in line with regulations and standards categories subject to such information requirements (which are “labelled” on the product) applicable to all products and systems. G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and p.75-76. There were no accidents, voluntary codes concerning product and service information and consisting of deaths, injuries or labeling, by type of outcomes damage to infrastructures due to defects in products supplied by Ansaldo STS. None of the minor non-conformities noted internally or by customer complaints entailed sanctions or measures. G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfactioni p.60; p.174-175 Aspect: customer privacy DMA p.50 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of There were no complaints customer privacy and losses of customer data Aspect: compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws Ansaldo STS has not received any and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and sanctions for non-compliance with services laws or regulations 192 For information on the Sustainability Report, please contact: Registered Office: Via Paolo Mantovani, 5 16151 Genoa Italy E-mail: andrea.razeto@ansaldo-sts.com External Communication Department: Tel. no. +39 010 655 2068 Fax no. +39 010 655 2055 This Sustainability Report has been prepared with the contribution and coordination of Andrea Razeto Vice President External Communication Ansaldo STS External Communications Dept. and Ulderico Zona Sr Vice President HSE & Facility Management, Supply Planning, Construction & Maintenance Alfredo Tommasone HSE Coordinator Major Entity Italy HSE Manager Ansaldo STS HSE & Facility Management Dept. The 2015 Sustainability Report is available online at: www.ansaldo-sts.com Advisors on procedures and reporting: Studio Badalotti per il Bilancio Sociale S.r.l. Strategic concept, Graphic design and Realisation: www.mercuriogp.eu Respecting the environment, Ansaldo STS has printed this Sustainability Report on paper produced from responsibly managed forests, according to FSC®criteria (Forest Stewardship Council®) Printed in October 2016 ANSALDO ANSALDO STS STS S.p.A. S.p.A. Registered Registered Offi Office: ce: 16151 16151 Genoa Genoa Via Via Paolo Paolo Mantovani, Mantovani, 33 -55 Paid-in Paid-in Share Share Capital Capital Euro Euro 100,000,000 100,000,000 R.E.A. R.E.A. n. n. 421689 421689 Register Register of of Enterprises Enterprises of of Genoa Genoa Tax Tax Code Code 01371160662 01371160662 www.ansaldo-sts.com www.ansaldo-sts.com AA Hitachi Hitachi Group Group Company Company
