COP 2014-2015 PAC Doverie 1 COP 2014-2015 – PAC Doverie STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT Once again I’m pleased to reaffirm PAC Doverie’s support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the four key areas of Human rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. During the past two years we kept on with our dedication, commitment and hard work not only to obey but also to promote in the best possible way the core values synthesized in the ten principles of the GC. Values that we firmly believe are the key to a better future and a better world for all of us. In times of deep controversies, crisis and literally walking on the edge between war and peace, chaos and harmony, light at the end of the tunnel or complete darkness at the bottom of the abyss, it’s more important than ever not only to do business but also to live in the most responsible and sustainable possible manner. Because if the past XXth century was the era of the new technologies, the XXIst century undoubtedly is the one of the sustainable development in its broadest context. And it’s our key priority to demonstrate it in every possible way. Daniela Petkova Chair of the Management board of PAC Doverie 2 COP 2014-2015 – PAC Doverie SOME PRACTICAL ACTIONS, TAKEN IN 2014-2015, TO FOLLOW THE GC PRINCIPLES I. Human rights  The Company has successfully undergone a procedure of upgrading its ISO 27001 certificate to the new 2013 version in order to properly meet the each time stricter requirements for an adequate level of personal data protection.  In 2000, there were no women on Doverie’s management board and only two women in the senior management team. In 2015, there are two women on the management board of the company (33%), including the chair of the board who is female. In the top management, which includes directors of directorates, heads of autonomous departments and territorial entities, a 50/50 gender balance has been achieved.  As part of its continuous actions taken to both secure equality in the workplace and give the female employees the opportunity to successfully combine their career with their personal life and maternal duties, the company: Provides financial assistance to purchase the necessary clothing during pregnancy; Grants a one-off financial assistance for any newborn child, whether it comes to a female or a male employee; Keeps the workplace and position during maternity leave, updates and informs employees of changes and novelties in the company for them to be prepared upon returning to work; Gives a special encouragement award to a directorate in which most children were born during the current year; Treats with tolerance and understanding all situations that require absence from work associated with raising children; Allows a reduced working day for all mothers with children up to 7 years, if so desired. 3 COP 2014-2015 – PAC Doverie  It is a personal responsibility of the chair of the management board to conduct an annual analysis of the gender age structure of the employees and to maintain a proper balance between generations and sexes. II. Labour In order to secure absolute equality in the workplace, regardless of gender or location, the Company has implemented new, upgraded versions of:  Remuneration policy;  System of categorization of offices and determining the remuneration of their employees;  Career development system. III. Environment  A special new section on our website granting the opportunity to any actual or potential customer of ours to send e-signed applications and/or any other kind of documents in order to cut down the use of paper as well as reduce bureaucracy.  Mandatory use of energy-saving bulbs.  Participation in the No elevators day – an initiative aimed to promote the use of the stairs instead of the elevator in order to cut down the use of electricity and promote a life with more physical activity. IV. Anti-corruption  Additional training of the employees in the rules and principles of the Policy against Corruption and Related Practices of PAC Doverie. Miscellaneous During the past two years PAC Doverie organized numerous charity activities, aimed, above all, to help sick and deprived of parental care children, and sponsored various events, mainly in the culture and sports area including:  the President’s promotion ball for children deprived of parental care;  the Bulgarian Christmas initiative;  the Rose festival in Kazanluk; 4 COP 2014-2015 – PAC Doverie  the award ceremony Bank of the Year ;  the ceremony “Next Year Business Plan”;  the 7th ceremony for the annual awards for transparency and partnership activities of regional and municipal administrations of the Foundation for transparent regulations ;  the 7th National festival of cinematography art “Golden eye”;  the conference Financial stability ;  Investor’s Finance forum;  the Syndical federation Metalici sports festival. A special remark deserves the initiative of a charity Christmas lottery for the employees aimed to raise money for a medical treatment abroad of a school teacher with cancer. Thus, with our help, the teacher is now in Germany undergoing the necessary treatment. All the information and details on the Communication on Progress of PAC Doverie will be available on our internal site and our official internet site www.pocdoverie.bg Contact persons: Daniela Petkova – Chair of the MB Miroslav Marinov – Executive Director Asen Asenov – Corporative Communications Director PAC Doverie JSC 13B Tintyava str. Sofia 1113 Bulgaria E-mail: head@poc-doverie.bg Tel.: +359 2/ 46 46 196 5 COP 2014-2015 – PAC Doverie
