Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Sustainability report 2015 3 TABLE OF CONTENT The year at a glance MANAGEMENT REPORT 4 Statement from the CEO 5 NNE Pharmaplan at a glance 7 Managing sustainability 11 Sustainability in projects 12 Social responsibility 14 Environmental footprint APPENDICES 16 UN Global Compact Principles and NNE Pharmaplan initiatives 4 Statement from the CEO NNE Pharmaplan has been a member of the UN that can improve sustainability value creation in Global Compact since 2008. We are committed projects. Our goal is to become the best pharma to the 10 principles regarding human rights, engineering consultants. labour, environment and anti-corruption, and we support the fulfilment of the Sustainable Our people are the heart of NNE Pharmaplan – Development Goals (SDGs). At NNE Pharmaplan and in order to provide our customers with the we strive to develop and integrate sustainability best possible solutions, we need to provide our in all our customer oriented projects, and in our employees with the competencies to do so. That corporate functions to support policies, stratemeans creating an environment where they can gies and goals. Our management systems and learn, thrive and develop from within. We have tools essentially support the integration. therefore decided to invest in our employees by strengthening their core competencies. One of During 2015, we have worked actively on the major components of this initiative is a proimplementing our new sustainability strategy. gramme we call PEAK. PEAK stands for Pharma The focal point of the strategy is to focus our Engineering Advanced Know-how, and it is the sustainability activities around our projects largest and most comprehensive investment in and our customers. Our customers are usually competency development in the history of sustainability leaders within their own industry NNE Pharmaplan. and across other industries. To challenge and assist their needs, we need to become best in class regarding sustainability services. For us sustainability is therefore not about generating a good story, it is about creating value for our Jesper Kløve customers. To achieve that we need to focus Chief Executive Officer and President on developing tools, systems and guidelines March 2016 5 NNE Pharmaplan at a glance NNE Pharmaplan is an international company We can support our customers throughout specialised in pharma engineering. We help the manufacturing and project lifecycle from WHO WE pharmaceutical companies bring products to front-end studies to optimisation. ARE AND market by providing flexible, compliant and future-proof solutions. We have close to 2,000 WHAT WE DO professionals delivering global knowledge and best practices, all dedicated to supporting our customers globally and on local sites. Through M P G M M P focused pharma engineering we enable our G P G customers to deliver on demand. O Bi ot ec y ra h/ lit ci ls ol A PI Fa At NNE Pharmaplan, we think inside the box Fi ll id es s A an do Proc ss d sa – the GMP box that is (Fig.1). We provide engiem fin ge Front-end study Front-end study bl is h neering and consulting services only within the y Optimisation an d om world of pharma, and our services are tailored pa ut ck A specifically towards this very complex and y O Bi highly regulated industry. But while our target lit ci ra Fa ls ol group is limited, our range of services is not. es s Fi ll id Pr IT A an d oc d an ss d n em bl fin is io h We are experts in all corners of pharma at y om an d production and have in-depth knowledge ut pa A P ck M within all product types and all manufacturing G G G M P M P steps. We are a one-stop shop for pharma engineering and consulting, offering services related to facility projects, process and automation and IT. Figure 1 The GMP box 6 TURNOVER OPERATING PROFIT 2,058 109 DKK million DKK million PEOPLE PROJECTS 1,719 3,000 Number of employees at end of year (FTE) The number of ongoing projects is continuously increasing OFFICES 15 The number of office locations worldwide 7 Managing sustainability Sustainability at NNE Pharmaplan is every single project, whether it be traditional about people, planet and profit, all compliance, or using sustainability to explore CHAIRMAN NEW together. That includes social responsi­ new opportunities. Our wish is to inspire and AND CEOBILITY SUSTAINA­ bility, with a keen focus on business challenge our customers and their way of STRATEGY STATEMENT ethics, environmental impact, and integrating sustainability. We believe that we can improve their products and help them about creating financial value. maintain their position as sustainability leaders. To ensure consistency and uniformity we apply We also consider our own activities as a the framework defined by the 10 principles company (Internal development). We set high of UN Global Compact in the areas of human standards for business ethics and employee rights, labour standards, environment and development. NNE Pharmaplan’s employees anti-corruption. NNE Pharmaplan has been a are our most valuable asset, which is why member of UN Global Compact since 2008 we prioritise the development of a good and and we remain committed to the principles and enriching working environment, and the goals of United Nations. The link between the development of employee competencies. 10 principles and our policies and initiatives is We monitor our carbon footprint to see the illustrated in the appendices. development of our own direct environmental impact, and we have an annual survey of SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY & OBJECTIVES employee satisfaction. We set high labour As an international company specialised in standards to attract the best employees and pharma engineering we need to adjust our we are very explicit with our policies and services to the reality of the pharmaceutical guidelines in order to obtain full transparency. industry. Historically, sustainability factors We have integrated responsible sourcing in represented risks related to legal and soft law our own procurement practices, both compliance. Compliance is still the baseline, in projects and in traditional company but companies also seek new opportunities procurement. through sustainability. Moreover, reputational risk plays an increasing role towards maintaining As a company, we will maintain compliance market share. Many of the large pharmaceutical with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 in Denmark companies that are performing well financially and disseminate it globally. We will continue are also amongst the sustainability leaders, i.e. to maintain compliance with ISO 9001, which on the RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability already disseminates globally. We will continue Assessment. to support the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. Our single largest environmental and social footprint is the engineering solutions (Deliveries) Our strategy is implemented through concrete we offer to our customers. Our responsibility objectives and initiatives. Table 1 summarizes is to provide value through our services in objectives and activities in 2015.  8 Objectives 2015 Transform and operationalise global Ongoing process that still needs trends and customer needs to formalisation provide sustainable consulting and services for all markets Develop sustainability goals and KPIs Ongoing process that still needs formalisation for our services Improve our platform for More focus on this in 2016, through our expert knowledge sharing/ forums (COIs) communication and training Implement and disseminate ISO In 2015 we continued certification of 14001 and OHSAS 18001 in the 1. ISO 14001 in Denmark entire NNE Pharmaplan organisation 2. ISO 9001 Global 3. OHSAS 18001 Denmark Review our supplier due diligence We are in the last stage of developing a responsible mechanisms sourcing tool for procurement Support voluntary and charitable Negotiations with SOS Børnebyerne and donations initiatives linked to the business reaching 116,200 DKK in 2015. Further activities put on hold Table 1 Overview of objectives and initiatives in 2015 Completed and ongoing activities Activities put on hold 9 In 2016, we will continue to: perceived in projects, and that a better integra• Transform and operationalise global trends tion of sustainability in the solutions we offer and customer needs to provide sustainable can add value to our customer. To do that we consulting and services internationally need to conduct internal and external material• Develop sustainability goals and KPIs for ity workshops with customers, ISPE (Internaour services tional Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering), • Improve our platform for knowledge sharing/ universities, etc. communication and training NNE Pharmaplan already has sustainability We believe that we can improve the integraintegrated in the business defined by a number tion of sustainability in our business. We believe of policies, management systems and tools. that we can change the way sustainability is See figure 2. STRATEGIC Our policies • Quality Policy • Working Environmental Policy • Environmental and Climate Policy • Security Policy • People & Communication Policy TACTICAL Management systems Procedures • ISO 9001 • Business ethics • ISO 14001 • Procurement in Projects • OHSAS 18001 • Procurement of Consultancy Services OPERATIONAL Our groups Our Tools • Sustainability & Environmen• Community of interest • Our Model tal Committee (S-EnvC) (COI): HSE • Performance & • Working Environmental • COI: Energy Efficiency Development Council & Sustainable Solutions Process (PDP) • Whistleblower • Cooperation Committee • COI: Sustainability & • Employee survey • Our Academy Environment Offering • Business Ethics • Dialogue – e-lear­ning programme • Our Wiki Figure 2 Integration of sustainability in our business 10 – CHAIRMAN AND CEO STATEMENT Sustainability activities were prioritised in Novo Nordisk’s new aseptic filling facility. Read the case story about the project on the NNE Pharmaplan website. 11 Sustainability in projects During 2015, we developed and implemented used to identify hotspots and develop a ventiladifferent tools to improve our HSE (Health, Safety tion strategy (fig. 3). ASEPTIC and Environment) services in projects. The tools FILLING comprise: • An energy-mapping tool for ventilation FACILITY systems to identify energy optimisation possibilities • A updated version of our HSE tools to strengthen our project-oriented HSE activities • A CFD (Computational Fluid Dynamics) tool to solve and analyse problems that involve fluid flows (air flows etc.) • A daylight analysis tool Figure 3 CFD analysis: distribution of heat throughout The tools were used in Novo Nordisk’s new asepthe utility basement tic filling facility. In 2015, Novo Nordisk selected NNE Pharmaplan to support all phases of its new aseptic filling facility in Hillerød, Denmark. Another example was the daylight analysis of the The project had a dual HSE focus, one evolving facility. Usually, two conflicting interests include the production activities and the other focusa lot of daylight in the building, and good insulaing on overall building performance. There was tion of the building. In this facility an equilibrium an emphasis on both energy consumption and was examined. Using daylight analysis tools, indoor climate to ensure state-of-the-art building the project members get a quick idea of façade performance. design possibilities. Different facades are easily visualised and assessed for daylight penetration. To ensure an acceptable thermal indoor environFigure 4 shows an office plan view and how the ment in the critical areas without compromising daylight travels through the windows. A skylight the energy consumption, different analyses and introduces daylight to the centre of the office investigations were initiated. The CFD tool was area. Figure 4 Distribution of daylight in the office area (plan view) 12 – CHAIRMAN AND CEO STATEMENT Social responsibility Social responsibility addresses the UN Global Compact Principles 1 to 6 and 10. At NNE Pharmaplan, social responsibility areas to master and develop. From there, our EMPLOYEE encompasses human rights and labour senior specialists alongside local and regional VOLUNTEERING rights as well as business ethics and social management teams have developed a compedevelopment (volunteering programmes, tency framework around those needs. In 2015, PROGRAMME see fact box) in the entire life cycle of we selected three core areas to address: GMP pharma products and the value chain we application, agile engineering and consultative are part of. engineering. PEAK uses a blended learning approach, where CHARITY – SOS BØRNEBYERNE we make use of a diverse range of learning In December 2015, 83 of our colleagues donated methodologies. There are some traditional classtheir Christmas gifts to SOS Børnebyerne. The room trainings, which run alongside webinars total amount (inclusive of the doubling of the and e-learning modules – but courses alone will sum by NNE Pharmaplan) reached DKK 116,200. not develop our employees. Education, exposure The money will hopefully make a significant and on-the-job learning are all essential. difference for the children in the town of NNE Pharmaplan believes that it is much easier Kayonza in the eastern part of Rwanda. to anchor what you learn by applying it in practice. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING NNE Pharmaplan’s strong commitment to NNE Pharmaplan’s own internal experts – who sustainability is integrated in our procurement are some of the best in the industry – provided practice. NNE Pharmaplan has already developed all of the course contents and led the training. standards and a code for responsible sourcing This required developing those experts and their from business partners. In 2015, we went a step training skills, so that they are well equipped beyond by developing our supplier evaluation to share what they know. We also focused on and due diligence mechanism to ensure complisystematically developing our subject matter ance with the UN guiding principles and actively experts, by setting up a strong career path for contribute to fulfilment of Sustainable Developsenior specialists so that they also have many ment Goals (SDGs). opportunities to advance and grow. Further development of our responsible sourcing EMPLOYEE SURVEY mechanism is expected to uplift our internal This year, the response rate of the annual global procurement procedures and provide value employee survey reached 90.8 percent, which is added to our customers through our projects. slightly lower than the record-high rate achieved in 2014 (94 percent). PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT In 2015, NNE Pharmaplan initiated a new proAmong other things, we use the survey to gramme to support and develop the competenmeasure the number of ambassadors we have at cies of our greatest asset – our employees. The NNE Pharmaplan. Ambassadors are defined as programme called PEAK, focuses on the core those employees who assigns nine or ten points areas that are most important in which to excel, (on a ten-point scale) to six specific questions and to do so thoroughly. When developing concerning loyalty and engagement. Our goal PEAK, we took our customers’ needs as for 2015 was to reach 33%, and we reached the point of departure in determining which 34.6%, which is very satisfactory. 13 management positions, 26 percent were held by AMBASSADORS women, which demonstrates a small discrepancy 34.6% compared with the overall gender distribution. ENGAGED To balance management team gender distribuCORE WORKERS BUT LESS LOYAL 11.8% 44.1% tion with the general distribution, NNE Pharmaplan strives to include female candidates in the recruitment process for management positions Engagement and as successors to management positions. We also try to achieve the general gender distribution in our talent programmes. LOYAL CRITICAL BUT LESS ENGAGED All these initiatives are an integrated part of the 8.6% 0.9% Organisational Audit process during which the development of the organisation is discussed and closely linked to the strategic priorities of the business. Loyalty Figure 5 Employee segments BUSINESS ETHICS At NNE Pharmaplan, we conduct our business according to high ethical standards, living our At NNE Pharmaplan it is important that our values and protecting the reputation of our employees have a well-balanced job and private company in order to maintain and grow our life. With a score of 7.7 (out of 10) on this business. To reduce the risk of NNE Pharmaplan indicator we are on the right track. employees violating business ethics or laws and regulations, we have implemented various activiEMPLOYEE DATA AND DIVERSITY ties to support compliance. NNE Pharmaplan employed 1,719 full-time employees at the end of 2015.There is a small These activities include mandatory e-learning decrease from 2014 in countries outside of programmes, annual audits and general awareDenmark. ness training. A rolling cycle is implemented to ensure that all employees and internal consultThe Board of Directors strives to include at ants complete an e-learning programme every least one of the underrepresented gender on year. The basic programme “The way we do the Board. Employee-selected members are business” is integrated into Navigate, the new not included in this target. In 2015, the Board on-boarding programme for new employees, consisted of six members, where one of the nonand employees are re-trained every third year. In employee-selected members was female. the intervening years, employees complete the Across all NNE Pharmaplan management teams, annual refresher programme “Doing business we aim to achieve a distribution equivalent to the right way”. NNE Pharmaplan’s overall gender distribution, taking local cultures into account. Our previously mentioned responsible sourcing standards for business partners also The overall gender split was 34 percent female encompass requirements regarding business and 66 percent male in 2015. Across all line ethics. 14 Environmental footprint Environment addresses the UN Global Compact Principles 7, 8 & 9. The largest area where we can posi­ EMPLOYEE FOOTPRINT EMISSIONS tively influence the environmental REDUCED footprint, is in our projects. In order to BY 5% include sustainable improvements in our projects we assess the HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) aspects of a project in order to discover and imple­ ment appropriate mitigation measures. We also look at our own company activities and impacts. We annually calculate our carbon footprint and implement measures to reduce 2015 2014 the environmental impact induced by own 2.6 TONS 2.7 TONS activities. COMPANY CARBON FOOTPRINT Travel activities, which include company-owned We have since 2008 calculated our carbon cars, employee-owned cars and air travel, are footprint for the buildings we occupy and still the main source of our greenhouse gas for our travel activities. The carbon footprint (GHG) emissions. These activities account for includes the emissions from heating, cooling, 79 percent of total emissions. In 2016 we electricity consumption as well as transportawill continue to reduce our GHG emissions, tion in cars and by plane. especially the emissions related to our travel activities. In 2015, NNE Pharmaplan was able to reduce its emissions by 5% compared with 2014. See detailed data from our carbon footprint in the appendices. The average CO2 emission per employee1 is 2.6 tons. A reduction of 100 kg CO2 per employee since 2014. 1 Employees calculated as a total of 2,053 including both employees (headcount) and external consultants. 15 TONS CO2 SAVED 45 THE BUZZ ‘The Buzz’, which was initiated in 2014 and is a regular bus service from Nybrovej to Kalundborg in Denmark, continues to be a great success. 45 tons CO2 and 4700 unproductive driving hours were saved by ‘the Buzz’ in 2015. 1 Assuming that each person works 2 hours (out of 3 hours) when travelling with ‘the Buzz’. 10000 8000 Transport by plane 6000 Transport in employee-owned cars Purchased cooling 4000 Purchased heating Purchased electricity 2000 Transport in company-owned cars Fugitive emissions from cooling plant 0 Heating of office buildings 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Figure 6. Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2) 16 Appendices UN Global Compact Principles and NNE Pharmaplan initiatives Reference to the How we work with the principle HOW WE COP report WORK HUMAN RIGHTS Policies: People & Communication Policy and Quality Policy WITH THE PRINCIPLES Principle 1 “Businesses should support and NNE Pharmaplan’s responsible sourcSee page 11 respect the protection of ing standards for business partners, internationally proclaimed both in projects and in own procurehuman rights.” ment practices. Principle 2 “Businesses should make sure they • Q  MS (Quality Management System). Figure 2, page 8 are not complicit in human rights The system is audited. abuses.” LABOUR Policies: People & Communication Policy, Working Environment Policy, Security Policy and Quality Policy Principle 3 “Businesses should uphold the Biannual Performance and DevelopSee page 12 freedom of association and the ment Process (PDP) meetings with effective recognition of the right manager to discuss and negotiate to collective bargaining.” terms and conditions of work. Principle 4 “Businesses should uphold the NNE Pharmaplan’s responsible sourcSee page 12 elimination of all forms of forced ing standards for business partners, and compulsory labour.” both in projects and in own procurement practices. Principle 5 “Businesses should uphold the • N  NE Pharmaplan’s responsible See page 12 effective abolition of child labour.” sourcing standards for business partners, both in projects and in own procurement practices. • The employee age is monitored via our integrated HR management and reporting system. Principle 6 “Businesses should uphold the •  NE Pharmaplan’s responsible N See page 12 elimination of discrimination in sourcing standards for business respect of employment and partners, both in projects and in occupation.” own procurement practices. • One employee survey a year. 17 Reference to the How we work with the principle COP report ENVIRONMENT Policies: Environmental & Climate Policy Principle 7 “Businesses should support a Annual environmental mapping See page 14 precautionary approach to of the buildings we occupy environmental challenges.” (environmental footprint). Principle 8 “Businesses are asked to undertake Health, Safety and Environment See page 14 initiatives to promote greater planning is included throughout the environmental responsibility.” phases of a project. A sustainability “One-pager” is developed in the beginning of the project to describe the sustainability goals of the project. Principle 9 “Businesses are asked to encourage HSE1 tools developed to elucidate See page 14 the development and diffusion of the relevant HSE aspects in projects. environmentally friendly technologies.” Knowledge sharing and development of sustainable solutions at COI2 for Sustainability and HSE. ANTI-CORRUPTION Policies: Business Ethics Policy Principle 10 “Businesses should work against •  andatory business ethics M See page 14 corruption in all its forms, including e-learning programme for all extortion and bribery.” employees. Yearly update. • Whistle-blower system. 1 HSE: (Health, Safety and Environment), the three areas investigated in projects 2 COI: C  ommunities of Interest. At NNE Pharmaplan we have organised our formal knowledge sharing into 25 Discipline COIs. The COIs make their knowledge accessible to all employees through the global engineering model Our Model. 18 EMPLOYEE HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELL-BEING Country Ambassadors Ambassadors Ambassadors Ambassadors Ambassadors – 2015 – 2014 – 2013 – 2012 – 2011 % % % % % NNE Pharmaplan 34.6 32.5 33.9 30.4 26.6 Table 1 Ambassadors (engagement, satisfaction and loyalty) rating in employee survey 2011-2015 Survey question 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 “I’m able to keep an acceptable 7.7 7.6 7.6 7.5 7.5 balance between my work life and my private life.” Table 2 Work-life balance rating in employee survey 2011-2015 Survey question 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 “People with different backgrounds 8.1 8.4 8.1 8.0 7.8 have equal opportunities at NNE Pharmaplan, regardless of gender, race etc.” Table 3 Equal opportunities rating in employee survey 2011-2014 Greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2)* 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Direct emissions (scope 1) Heating of office buildings 191 226 270 249 363 Fugitive emissions from cooling plant 27 0 39 5 3 Transport in company-owned cars 663 770 638 582 532 Indirect emissions (scope 2) Purchased electricity 874 1.180 1.334 1,315 1,731 Purchased heating 22 28 29 46 58 Purchased cooling 13 24 15 15 2 Indirect emissions (scope 3) Transport in employee-owned cars 679 610 743 566 550 Transport by plane 2,935 2,873 3,346 4,337 5,191 Total greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2) 5,404 5,711 6,414 7,115 8,430 Table 4 Greenhouse gas emissions at NNE Pharmaplan 2011-2015 * tCO2 refers to tons of CO2 equivalents Concept and design: NNE Pharmaplan A/S Text: NNE Pharmaplan A/S, Corporate Communications Photo: Peter Sørensen and iStock by Getty Images Acknowledgement must be made for any reproduction 20 – ANNUAL REPORT 2013 NNE Pharmaplan A/S Nybrovej 80 DK-2820 Gentofte, Denmark Tel.: +45 4444 7777 Fax.: +45 4444 3777 CVR No.: 13 24 60 09 nnepharmaplan.com
