United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Message from the CEO At the William Demant Group, we have actively supported the UN Global Compact initiative since spring 2010. This is our sixth Communication on Progress report, summarising how, on a global scale, we embrace, support and act upon the principles of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. The requirements of the Global Compact initiative provide a solid framework for corporate social responsibility (CSR). We are confident that by using this globally recognised framework for reporting our policies, activities and results, we will be able to further systematise our efforts. CSR lies within our natural sphere of interest formed by the Group’s ownership structure and our products in hearing healthcare. Therefore, we welcome this chance to systematise the reporting on how we embrace social, environmental and ethical challenges within and beyond our legal obligations. Already, the UN Global Compact initiative is incorporated into our mission statement, which states: All Group companies seek to promote a stimulating and rewarding working environment through a flexible, knowledgebased organisational structure. Moreover, the Group is committed to high standards of ethics, quality and fairness and is dedicated to meeting its environmental and social responsibilities. We will continue to be committed to support the Global Compact initiative and its principles, by issuing an annual publication on our work with CSR, the Communication on Progress. Niels Jacobsen President & Chief Executive Officer 1 March 2016 2|Page United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress for 2015 1 March 2016 On ethics and principles Deeply rooted in our foundation and corporate culture lies an effort to meet the social and environmental responsibilities within our sphere of influence. Our ethical requirements and behaviour along with our integrity in business affairs are high – in fact, in many cases our standards are above the legislative demands imposed upon us in the markets where we operate. Before we signed up for the United Nations Global Compact in 2010 we had already developed 14 ethical principles of our own, covering the aspects of ethics we find especially important to abide by. In order to align and create an overview of our progress both with respect to the Global Compact principles as well as our own 14 principles, we have organised relevant projects according to both approaches. For the full overview please refer to Table: UN Global Compact CoP 2015 in the last section of this report. Our responsibility To us, acting responsibly means meeting certain principles and always following local legislation. In addition to this, it also means doing more than just the minimum or just taking the actions required by law. In this context, we find it relevant to mention that in 2015, our Parent, the Oticon Foundation, made a number of donations to social, cultural and scientific projects, totalling almost DKK 102 million. The objects clause of the Foundation’s deed states the alleviation of hearing loss as the Foundation’s primary focus. Thus, in 2015 approx. DKK 55 million was donated to educational institutions and research projects in the field of audiology. For instance, Denmark’s Technical University (DTU) and Aalborg University both received substantial donations to support research groups and individual projects. Social and cultural engagement in Denmark On a broader note, we would like to mention a few special projects to show the scope of the Oticon Foundation: The Oticon Foundation also supports broader causes through donations to special social projects, such as fundraising for humanitarian organisations within poverty relief (the Denmark Collection), disease research, specifically cancer (Cure for Cancer) and children’s helpline (the Children’s Collection) – all arranged by Danish TV channels and broadcast as large TV shows. In 2015, the Oticon Foundation supported the book Tal til mig nu (“Talk to me now”). The book is written by a Danish mother of a child with severe hearing loss with the scope of helping other parents cope in the difficult period after their child has been diagnosed with a hearing loss. 3|Page Global engagement, empowering people with hearing loss For several years, the Oticon Foundation has funded the IDA Institute, which develops tools to empower and support people with hearing impairment in their process of recognition and treatment. The work of the institute aims to positively impact hearing-impaired persons and hearing care professionals around the world by making patientcentered care the core of hearing care practice, and by promoting research and education within the field of acoustic communication. One of the initiatives organized by the IDA has been the creation of motivational tools to help patients in the self/management of their hearing loss. Audiologists, educators and hearing health professionals around the world have found that the IDA tools help them to deliver more patient-centered care. Due to the high percentage of veterans with hearing aid disabilities, in 2015 IDA has specifically developed a motivational toolbox for VA audiologists. Continuous dialogue with people with hearing loss and hearing care professionals In 2015, Oticon Foundation gave young audiologists representing 20 countries a unique opportunity to engage in formal and informal discussions and hands-on workshops with leading scientists from Eriksholm Research Centre, guest experts, Oticon audiologists and specialists. At last year’s summer camp, research was linked to practice, user needs to technology, and people across borders shared insights and new experiences. The discussion of the latest findings within the field was taken further with interactive workshops in which the participants were invited for group discussion and knowledge sharing. Policies Generally, we operate in compliance with our own 14 principles, covering corporate governance, human and labour rights, environmental protection and business ethics. These principles serve as guidelines for our development of dedicated policies and action plans and have been developed in line with the Global Compact initiative. As an example of how a principle become a policy shaped into an action plans, in 2012, we drew on the equality principle developing a policy to ensure equal opportunities for women and increase female managers within the company. The action plan has delivered positive results, further details are available in the “Labour” paragraph. Policies into action Global Compact – a universal tool Since our first Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact in spring 2011, we have experienced progress within several of the four focus areas covered by the 10 principles. It is a commitment to furthering principles relating to human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. As the framework is a universally recognised tool used for systematising and reporting responsibility initiatives over a continuous period of time, it indicates how we have developed so far and also whether we are moving along the right path. In other words, it acts as guidance for us to maintain and strengthen our focus within corporate social responsibility. Our Communication on Progress is published on the UN Global Compact website as well as on our own website. 4|Page In the subsequent paragraphs, our efforts are aligned with the four focus areas and the 10 principles of UN Global Compact. Human rights Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. William Demant respects the protection of human rights through the implementation of the established principles and regulations contained in its business ethics policy and code of conduct. The company makes efforts in supporting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within and outside the corporate boundaries. Even though it can hardly be justified as protection of human rights, William Demant tries to exercise a positive spillover effect and improve conditions for people less fortunate, with a specific focus on its core business and mission: health and hearing care. In 2014, employees at William Demant in Denmark collectively supported the international movement, Movember, which encourages people to donate money to support men’s health, e.g. through research on and prevention of prostate and testicular cancer, through information on men’s general state of health, and by creating awareness of ‘doing something in time’. The William Demant team continued the 2014 effort and also in 2015 the Oticon Foundation generously contributed to the team collection. In 2015, the Oticon Foundation supported a number of initiatives aimed at strengthening and supporting the development of audiological knowledge and services in China. One of these initiatives was to support the establishment of a mobile hearing clinic to reach rural areas of China with no or little access to hearing care. People in these areas, who would normally have no access to treatment of their hearing loss, can be helped this way – free of charge. In addition, since 2010 the Oticon Foundation has supported The Global Foundation for Children with Hearing Loss in their efforts to improve conditions for children with hearing impairment in Vietnam. Among other activities, the Global Foundation develops educational initiatives for parents and teachers working with hearing-impaired children and helps the children gain easier access to hearing aids. So far, the project has been able to help more than 1000 children with hearing loss, supporting 38 schools. In the Amazons and in South Africa, the Oticon Foundation has supported projects establishing local hearing clinics. These projects involve volunteers from local Oticon affiliates as well as social workers, specialists from universities, hospitals and audio clinicians. The ultimate scope of these initiatives is to contribute to local health, promote good hearing, better hygiene and increase awareness. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. At William Demant, more than 90% of our turnover comes from the OECD countries where violation of human rights is not an issue that companies need to address through special projects or increased attention. Securing human rights is covered by local legislation, which we follow by acting in accordance to the UN Global Compact principle 1 and 2. In countries of operation outside OECD we only employ and conduct business with highly skilled labour, selling and handling our advanced products. Violating proclaimed human rights is against our business model and against our own business ethics policy. 5|Page Where local legislation does not naturally protect human rights, labour rights and serve environmental interests we use our code of conduct to ensure that high standards are met when doing business in those countries and dealing with e.g. suppliers, which are beyond the boundaries of our own company. For more information on our code of conduct, please also refer to ‘Labour, principle 4’. Labour Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining The William Demant Group has signed collective agreements with relevant labour unions. Subsequently, we negotiate and sign local agreements, duly considering local conditions, thus further improving terms regarding salary, working hours, salary increments, education etc. We respect the individual's membership of labour unions. Principle 4: Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Supplier code of conduct – providing a safe and healthy working environment Suppliers are one of our focus areas. All suppliers must sign a comprehensive code of conduct that lists criteria, governing aspects of human rights, labour rights, the environment as well as anti-corruption – in fact, all four principles of the Global Compact. The code of conduct has been used since 2010 throughout the Group, and we are proud of announcing that in 2015 we had three additional suppliers signing up the code of conduct. In total, 241 suppliers of components and packaging materials have signed the code of conduct, and in terms of value, we buy about 90% of our direct materials for production and distribution from them. We select and currently assess our suppliers based on this code. The suppliers are grouped in three categories according to the level of risk of breach of our code of conduct. The risk assessment is based on William Demant's own methodology. It is subject to independent audit and based on the supplier's geographical presence, sector, management practices and strategic importance for William Demant. The categorisation of suppliers helps us prioritise the resources needed for further dialogue with the suppliers. If we find that there is a risk that a supplier does not live up to our code of conduct, we carry out an audit and prepare a report, listing the items that need to be addressed before we can initiate or continue cooperation with that supplier. In 2015, an external auditing firm performed four CSR audits. The external audits were followed up by internal audits, to control that initiatives contained in prior action plans had indeed been carried out, and to take actions on the results of the audits. The typical non-compliances are:  Too many working hours per week  Lack of one day off per week  Fines to workers for breaking internal rules, e.g. violation of smoking prohibition  Lack of evidence of CSR audits of subcontractors  Emergency exits blocked 6|Page  Lack of exit signs  Lack of training in fire extinction and emergency handling  Lack of written emergency plans Principle 5: Uphold the effective abolition of child labour. As declared in our business ethics policy and code of conduct, and likewise implemented by our suppliers, we uphold the effective abolition of child labour and condemn its usage. Due to the quality and sophistication of our products and services, the vast majority of our employees, as well as the employees of the companies with which we conduct business, are highly skilled, having to go through years of training and/or education. This is a requirement to enable them to develop, sell and handle the products. Principle 6: Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation More female managers We work actively to encourage more women to seek executive and managerial positions. This commitment is anchored with the Board of Directors and the Management. In 2012, we defined a diversity policy and specific initiatives for increasing the share of female managers in the Group. We called it 'More female managers'. On an ongoing basis, concrete initiatives are taken to support the policy, from communication to recruitment and leadership.  In job advertisements, employer branding material, and communication, we always aim to balance the tone of voice between ‘male’ and ‘female’ connotations and visuals.  Concerning recruitment, we require qualified female candidates in the second round when cooperating with external recruiting agencies. With regard to external recruitment processes, relevant departments in the Group must prioritise sending female employees to job fairs.  From a talent management perspective, our managers make an effort to guide and nudging female talents towards pursuing opportunities for promotion. Development in 2015 As far as the number of female managers at the Group’s different management levels is concerned, we are pleased to see that our increased focus on furthering the number of women in managerial positions seems to be bearing fruit. Since we started recording these numbers in 2009, the male/female manager ratio in our Danish companies has thus improved from 89/11 in 2009 to 80/20 in 2015. In middle and first-line management, the ratio has increased from 84/16 in 2009 to 76/24 in 2015. The percentage development in 2015 shows a slight decrease compared to 2014. However, in actual numbers the decrease only represents a few persons. Traditionally, our recruitment base has been male dominated. Therefore, we are pleased to see that increased focus on furthering the number of women in managerial positions seems to bear fruit. It is important, however, to keep in mind that all these initiatives do not change our basic recruiting goal, which is to always seek, hire and promote the best qualified employees – gender set aside. 7|Page Development in male-female ratio, from top management to first-line management 2009-2015 Personnel and career development To make sure that we allow our employees to develop in the best possible way and to grow within the organization, we review their competences, performances and career plans on a yearly basis. In order to enable the development and growth of our employees, the Group has established an education platform called Demant Academy. The Demant Academy offers a broad variety of training opportunities: on a general level, communication and facilitation courses; for engineers, test driven development and scrum training; project management and general leadership training as well as support for additional training; stress management and working smarter activities are also offered. Board of Directors In 2013, the Board of Directors of William Demant set the following target and deadline in respect of female Board members: Within a period of four years, one woman must be elected to the Board of Directors. At the annual general meeting in April 2014, a female Board member was elected by the general meeting. Thus, the target was reached within only one year after the target was set. At the annual general meeting in April 2015, there were no changes to the number of women serving on the Board. In connection with publication of our Annual Report 2015, the Board has therefore set a new target: In or before 2020, the Board aims to have at least two female members. 8|Page Environment Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Naturally, we comply with all current environmental rules and regulations in all the countries in which we operate. Our product-related environmental impact is fairly limited. By way of example, a hearing aid weighs just 2-6 grammes and contains no harmful substances. Restricted lists Although the use of raw material is limited compared to other industries, we still enforce a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Thus, we have implemented the use of 'restricted lists', which is a compliance providing instruction and information on what is the basis for substances utilization and categorization of substances and material. The aim is to provide detailed instructions on how to ensure that the group complies with relevant law regulations related with content specific substances. The document lists all relevant components and materials, which are banned or restricted. It is mandatory for our suppliers to comply with the restricted list, which is controlled through a declaration of conformity and/or audits. The list is an initiative taken by William Demant and is based on the following regulations: Restricion of Hazardous Substances (ROHS),Toys directive, conflict minerals that are subject to the requirements of Dodd-Frank Section 1502, the Registration, and the Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals directive (REACH), Substances are categorised in classes:  Class I: Prohibited (not to be introduced in the production or be present in any products put on the market by the William Demant Group).  Class II: Restricted (for restricted use only).  Class III: Subjected to special deliberation (can be used, but under observation).  Class IV: Under observation (can be used after thorough risk assessment). In addition to requirements and restrictions which are mandatory by law, we have enforced extra specifications, e.g ban on the use of al phthalates and natural rubber latex. Working with restricted lists ensures full transparency on the use of hazardous substances, it ensures compliance with relevant directives, and it gives the manufacturers the opportunity to set the bar even higher than required or recommended by external standards. Carbon Disclosure Project In 2008, we joined the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project), providing us with a means of measuring and recording our environmental footprint. Every year, we submit the CDP report on corporate CO2 emissions and climate strategy. All reports are available on our website under: CSR, Downloads: www.demant.com/downloadcsr.cfm. In 2015, our Group’s CO2 emissions reached 14,406 tonnes, representing 2.36 CO2 tonnes per employee, which is a decrease of 3.7% from 2014. We are proud to see that our effort towards environmental responsibility has resulted in concrete improvements, but this is an ongoing effort, so we will strive to do even better in the years to come. Although we are a growing company and we have seen a double-digit revenue increase compared to last year, our CO2 emissions only rose by 6% in total compared to 2014. Electricity accounts for 75% of our corporate CO2 emissions, the heating of buildings for 8%, and cars for 17%. 9|Page Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Energy consumption Being responsible means acting both globally and locally in terms of environment, and having the right attitude. We constantly try to do better in this field. In every possible way, we aim to act responsibly when it comes to our environmental awareness. In 2015, together with our energy provider SEAS-NVE, we have carried out a mapping and analysis of our energy consumption to easily process and suggest for saving energy. Seemingly trivial changes may have a relatively large impact on our energy consumption and hence on our environmental footprint. For example, this year we have started the optimization of our ventilation system, implemented water efficiency measures as well as lightening control systems in some of our facilities. In addition to implementing initiatives with a view to reducing our energy consumption and contributing to the production of green energy, we have initiated awareness projects with the potential of becoming best practices going forward. For instance, we run a so-called waste academy project that teaches our employees how to and what to recycle, and we run waste management analyses at some of our sites. By way of example, we have ambitious goals regarding IT infrastructure: we continue our efforts with the goal of lowering the energy consumption to a third on running our server infrastructure in the local sales companies where refurbished. Actually, our efforts in this area have given rise to savings by as much as 5:1 in optimal scenarios. Furthermore, continuously replacing hardware with more energy efficient models is a focus area. Also, within the IT area, process optimisations have ensured that capacity planning is carried out more efficiently, reducing overcapacity, lowering overall energy consumption. Initiatives have been taken to continue the consolidation of services on larger data centres, where cooling systems and backend environments are better utilised and specialised for leaner running. We are shutting down old, power consuming servers replacing them with more energy efficient servers, and vendors of IT services are committed to a green approach, securing a responsible supply chain in this area. The approach is global – thus, aside from headquarter activities in Denmark, we are reaping the benefits of having replaced all hardware at our operations in Bern, Switzerland, and in Brazil where 10 old servers in a Storage Area Network (SAN) were shut down and replaced by one single server and a new SAN. The degree of virtualization of our server park is very high, approaching 95%, and this enables us to strongly limit power consumption from servers. All these initiatives decrease even further the power utilisation on hosting applications, adding less footprint on energy consumption when more services are added. 10 | P a g e 800000 700000 600000 500000 400000 300000 200000 100000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy consumption in server room at William Demant headquarters. Level has significantly decreased since the establishment of server virtualisation in 2010. Marketing material We aim to act responsibly regarding our environmental awareness. As an example, we continue to drive overall initiatives initiated in 2012 regarding printed marketing material. The packaging project on the substantial NHS market (National Health Service in UK) is a benchmark. Here, we have reduced the use of paper in the Instruction for use by 70-75% due to a new format, removed metal staples, replaced plastic box by a paper version, and reduced its size by 25%. Additionally, FSC certification ensures that products come from responsibly managed forests that provide environmental, social and economic benefits. It is an ongoing efforts, so we strive to do better and support new initiatives in this field in the years to come. Offshore windmill farms Another example is our stake in a gigantic wind farm, which has been erected off the German North Sea coast and will, from June 2016, produce green energy match the consumption of 285,000 households. The investment of DKK 1.7 billion was made in early 2012 by the Oticon Foundation through William Demant Invest (WDI), our majority stakeholder. WDI's interest in the wind farm constitutes about 18%, and the corresponding production of green power will be more than five times the total corporate consumption of electricity. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We are convinced that our business can only flourish if based on sound business ethics. We develop innovative, high-quality products and our primary goal is for the users to benefit from our products. We therefore have no interest in supporting business conduct that contributes to distorting market mechanisms. William Demant has not been involved in any legal disputes or settlements on business ethics. 11 | P a g e In 2010, we adopted a formal business ethics policy that applies to all Group companies. The policy outlines how we want to act and how we want to be perceived, when it comes to the ethical aspects of doing business and interacting with customers. Specifically, the policy provides guidelines as to what is appropriate and inappropriate marketing, hospitality and other interaction with hearing healthcare professionals. We do not offer, give, accept or receive bribery in any form and we discourage facilitation payments. Along these lines, it is important to note that situations where corruption is prevalent often occur in third-world countries in connection with public tenders and that these tenders represent a very limited part of our total revenue. By the nature of our business, challenges regarding corruption are thus extremely rare. Nevertheless, according to the policy, we have incorporated business ethics principles into contracts with third parties where relevant, and we have applied a set of principles to avoid misuse of payments and financial transactions. Furthermore, we make an effort to communicate our business ethics to all our companies, thus making ethics a natural part of all managers’ meetings and internal training sessions. Goals for the future Special focus areas for the near future are general environmental initiatives. In the area of facility management, i.e. in connection with building and renovation projects, we will make an effort to ensure that we always choose the best solution, which means implementing environmentally friendly improvements. Also, marketing will continue to receive special attention in the near future. The ambition of reversing the print/online material ratio is currently in focus and ongoing, new improvements will be made on an ongoing basis. On the labour side, project 'More female managers' will receive continued attention, partly because it is now included in the Danish legislation, partly because it is a long process which requires substantial efforts that touch upon many layers of the organisation to achieve this goal. There is no doubt that our joining the Global Compact initiative, our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project and our generally increased focus on communication on responsibility all testify to the fact that this work is a priority and will be continuously developed in future. 12 | P a g e Table: UN Global Compact CoP 2015 Return to beginning of document Focus Corporate 1. Human rights 2. Labour rights 3. Environmental 4. Anti-corruption areas governance protection (William Demant specific) William 1. We maintain an 4. We treat our employees 5. We do not use and 9. We use materials 12. We are committed accountable and with respect and dignity, we prohibit the use of efficiently and strive to to abide by the laws and Demant efficient management encourage diversity and forced labour or child optimise packaging as regulations of the 14 princistructure. ensure fair treatment. labour. well as waste handling. countries in which we ples operate. In the absence 2. We communicate 6. We provide a safe 7. We recognise our 10. We limit the use of of adequate laws and in an open, and healthy working employees' rights to hazardous substances regulations, we refer to transparent, environment where freedom of in products and recognised international impartial and timely employees can perform association and processes. standards and industry manner with the to their full potential collective bargaining. 11.We monitor our norms. stock market about and where initiative is impact on the climate the Group's encouraged. 13. We work against and aim to reduce our strategy, objectives bribery and other 8. We strive to maintain energy consumption. and risks. forms of corruption, good relations with both directly and in3.We maintain neighbours and the directly through our adequate internal surrounding society business partners, and control mechanisms through involvement we strive to avoid with a view to and open facilitation payments. monitoring, communication. managing and 14. To benefit the users mitigating any of our products is our material risks primary goal. We thereassociated with fore avoid actions that our business. may influence business decisions to the disadvantage of the end-users. Special The Directors rely on Highlighted projects: Highlighted projects: Highlighted projects: In general: the recommendations atten1. Oticon Foundation 1. More female man1. Restricted list Our suppliers' code of on corporate through IDA Institute: initiative conduct includes tion/ governance drawn up agers: Special focus Tools to support and with new legislation, 2. Reduce printed criteria for antiaction by The Committee on empower people with marketing material corruption. Corporate policy and action plan. hearing impairment 3. Reduce energy Governance in 2. Our suppliers' code Business ethics in their process of consumption through Denmark. of conduct includes policy. recognition and global IT server treatment. Information criteria relating to consolidation about hearing loss to labour rights. 4.Offshore windmill the general public. farm. 2. Oticon Foundation Also, our suppliers' through various projects – code of conduct includes e.g. in China, Australia, criteria for the Amazon environment. 13 | P a g e Focus Corporate 1. Human rights 2. Labour rights 3. Environmental 4. Anti-corruption areas governance protection (William Demant specific) Also, our suppliers' code of conduct includes criteria relating to human rights. Results We have developed Re 1: IDA Institute aims Re 1: More female Re 1: In the William Demant Re 1: 241 suppliers of a comprehensive to positively empower managers: Increasing restricted list initiative, components and and goals Statutory Report hearing-impaired persons the number of female substances are categorised packaging have signed the on Corporate and hearing care managers at all levels in four classes, ensuring code of conduct. About Governance 2015, professionals around the through specific full transparency on the use 90% of our total describing and world by making patientinitiatives is a corporate of hazardous substances purchases is made reviewing the William centered care the core of goal. So far, ratio has and ensuring compliance through this group of Demant position on hearing care practice, and increased from 11% in with relevant directives. suppliers. corporate by promoting research 2009 to 20% in 2015. . governance. There and education within the Re 2: Suppliers’ code Re 2: IT server are only four that we field of acoustic of conduct: 241 consolidation: Energy do not comply with. communication. suppliers of savings by as much as 5:1 Re 2: Projects’ example: components and in optimal scenarios. The China, Australia, packaging have signed degree of virtualization of Vietnam, and the the code of conduct. our server park is very high, Amazon mobile hearing About 90% of our total approaching 95%, and this clinic in China; in the purchases are made enables us to strongly limit Amazon and in South through this group of power consumption from Africa local hearing suppliers. servers. clinics with the help of volunteers from local Re 3. The William Demant Oticon affiliates as well offshore windmill Farm will as social workers, from 2016 produce more specialists from than five times the total universities, hospitals corporate consumption of and audio clinics, Electricity. primarily in the US. Return to beginning of document 14 | P a g e
