U N G L O B A L C O M P A C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ©Chris Saupper/maupi PP-PFE-AUT-0093/07 2016 P F I Z E R C O R P O R AT I O N A U S T R I A UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Company name Pfizer Corporation Austria Gesellschaft m.b.H. Address Floridsdorfer Hauptstrasse 1, 1210 Wien Country Austria Membership date 2009/04/14 Number of employees 260 Contact name Robin Rumler Contact position CEO Sector Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology Date July 2016 Brief description of nature of business Pfizer Corporation Austria is the Austrian branch of Pfizer Inc., one of the world’s leading suppliers of innovative medicines in the field of human medicine. Pfizer began operating in Vienna, Austria in 1956. Since then, Pfizer has contributed significantly to economic and workforce development, invested heavily in innovation and research to support the development of new medicines, and given back to the community through new partnerships and philanthropic ventures. Located in Vienna, Floridotower, Pfizer has been one of the leading pharmaceutical companies in Austria and is a reliable partner for patients, doctors, pharmacists, and the healthcare system. More than 135 Pfizer products are available on the Austrian market. Our portfolio includes medicines and vaccines as well as many of the world‘s best known consumer health care products. Our mission Good health is vital to all of us, and finding sustainable solutions to the most pressing health care challenges of our world cannot wait. That‘s why we at Pfizer are committed to applying science and our global resources to improve health and well-being at every stage of life. We strive to provide access to safe, effective and affordable medicines and related healthcare services to the people who need them. Our strategic imperatives 1. Innovate and lead: Improve Pfizer‘s ability to innovate in biomedical R&D and develop a new generation of high value, highly differentiated medicines and vaccines. 2. Maximize Value: Invest and allocate our resources in ways that create the greatest long-term returns for our shareholders. 3. Earn Greater Respect: Earn society‘s respect by generating breakthrough therapies, improving access, expanding the dialogue on healthcare and acting as a responsible corporate citizen. 4. Own Our Culture: Build and sustain a culture where colleagues view themselves as owners, generating new ideas, dealing with problems in a straightforward way, investing in open and candid conversations and working as teammates on challenges and opportunities. 2 Statement of support Ladies and Gentlemen, In accordance to our vision „Together for a healthier world“ Pfizer researches, develops and produces modern medicines and does everything in its power to make these available to patients. That is our core business. This is how we want to contribute to a healthier world while at the same time remaining economically successful. At Pfizer we can look back at the past year with pride. Much has happened: In 2015 we incorporated the biosimilar specialist Hospira into our company at an international level. In Austria, approximately 500 employees currently work at our two locations (in Vienna and Orth an der Donau). The different remits for each of the sites poses a particular challenge. In Vienna we are a purely marketing and sales-oriented organization, whereas Orth/Donau is a production site. In order to sensitize our colleagues in both companies to the different work areas and challenges, it was decided to introduce the initiatives „How to run a plant“, and „How to run a corporation“. The employees based at the Viennese branch experienced what it means to manufacture vaccines first hand, while the colleagues from the Orth site learned in Vienna how a sales organization functions. It is our aim to be a responsible company in all areas. We are highly conscious of the fact that our decisions and activities have consequences and impacts not only on our employees, customers, business partners and patients, but on our society as a whole and on our environment. We are doing everything in our power to maximize the positive effects of our actions and to avoid and/ or minimize any negative consequences. In order to identify the changing needs of all our stakeholder groups and to react accordingly, in fall 2015 we carried out our first stakeholder survey, by means of a materiality analysis, in order to find out which future areas of action are of strategic importance for our company from an internal and external perspective. We have managed to achieve a lot in the past years – and we are really proud of this. However, we also know that we still have a lot to do. This is why we are continuously working to further advance our responsible actions and to improve them. In order to ensure that we can keep our promises to our patients, customers and shareholders in the future, we want to concentrate on our business methods, on transparency, and on the inclusion of the views of all the people who are involved in decision making in health care. I would like to invite you to read more about our projects and successes in 2015 on the following pages! For more details please visit: http://www.pfizer.at/verantwortung/nachhaltigkeitsberichte.html Sincerely yours, Prof. Dr. Robin Rumler Country Manager Pfizer Austria 3 At a glance Business location Contribution to health 11,804,285 Medicine packs sold in Austria Production in Distribution Kwizda warehouse Orth/Donau in Vienna in Leopoldsdorf Research in Austria More transparency 245 patients took part in Pfizer clinical studies For the year 2015 and for the first time, Pfizer has disclosed throughout the year 2015. payments and other Transfers of Value (ToV) made to Healthcare Professionals (HCP) and Healthcare Organisations (HCO). 3% 20 clinical studies with a total of to Healthcare Professionals 104 patients (Phase I, II and III) and (approx. €900,000) 6 NIS (non-interventional studies) 98 36 e.g. research and educational grants with a total of 141 patients 65 5% Approx. € to Healthcare Organisations 29 (approx. €1.5 million) 2 e.g. research and educational grants 37 0 million 2 1 4 92% in research and development (R&D) (approx. €26.7) Donations of medicines in 2015 Living Diversity amounting to €119,930 LGBT Officer Diversity Charter 26 nations represented Number of audits carried out in 2014/15 CO2 emissions 2015 9 54,755 t 2015: First Online Volunteer program Pfizer Corporate Stakeholder Survey Volunteering Days: since 2008 40% internal feedback 18% external feedback 276 participants 80 1,576 CV Days hours of volunteer rate rate work* *As of January 2016 4 The 10 Principles – Our Progress 2015 Communication on Progress concerning the implementation of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Principles Commitment Systems Measures and performances Principle 1 Protecting human rights and other values of • Mission Statement • Works council monitors and guarantees that there are no violaSupport and respect the respectful human interaction have been inte• Code of Business Conduct tions of human rights Human rights protection of internationally grated into all business activities at Pfizer (Pfizer Blue Book) • The Fair Play Network, a part of the global Diversity & Inclusion proclaimed human rights Austria. Pfizer Austria also demands from its • UN Global Compact Principles Group, consists of a team of Pfizer colleagues supporting and business partners to observe human rights. promoting equal chances and opportunities for all qualified office staff and field force and the compatibility of family and Principle 2 career. Make sure that we are not • Introduction of an LGBT officer complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3 Pfizer is an attractive employer offering many • Company Guidelines and • Continue the „OWN IT!“ initiative for cultural change at Pfizer Uphold the freedom of opportunities for development in an internatiPfizer Imperatives • Re-assessment of „work-and-family“: Evaluation and extension association and the effeconal environment. Colleagues with innovative • Code of Business Conduct of the „work-and-family“ certificate, which distinguishes Pfizer tive recognition of the right ideas and commitment can set trends here. At (Pfizer Blue Book) Austria as a family-friendly company to collective bargaining the same time, Pfizer supports a healthy work/ • Pfizer Austria Leadership • Home Office: Employee survey on the usefulness of and satislife balance. This includes flexible working Charta faction with the home office hours and the option of home office, for • Pfizer OWN IT! Initiative • Improvement in the transparency of home office regulations Principle 4 example. In addition, Pfizer promotes various • Expansion of virtual jobs The elimination of all forms Labour internal and external projects as well as initia• The connection of employees on leave to the company by of forced and compulsory tives that reflect diversity and inclusion in a means of a buddy system labour modern corporate culture. • Anchoring family-friendly leadership in the objectives for manaPrinciple 5 gers and qualitative objective assessment within the framework The effective abolition of of the year-end performance appraisal child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 Our environment and its resources are a vital • UN Global Compact Principles • Labeling of products when shipping from the Austrian central Support a precautionary asset for us and future generations. For this • Pfizer’s Green Journey warehouse in order to increase awareness (e.g. „Warning: Cytostapproach to environmental reason, we at Pfizer are planning the necesProgram atics“, „Warning: Glass“) challenges sary measures to reduce CO2 and to deal with • Optimization of e-invoicing for public vendors resources in a conscious and careful manner. • Introduction of packaging with tamper proof seals that cannot In the future, we plan to exclusively use domebe reverted to original state after the initial opening. Environment Principle 8 stically produced hydroelectricity. We assure • Promoting the use of environmentally friendly transportation Undertake initiatives to you, our internal and external customers, that (bike to work) promote greater environwe take environmental protection extremely • Continuation of the „Öffi subsidy“ or „job ticket“ mental responsibility serious and will do everything to promote it. • Energy efficiency audit We are working on this continuously with all of • Increase awareness / information campaigns for employees: our contracting parties and suppliers. „We save“ Principle 9 • Conversion to electronic pay slips Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10 We at Pfizer are obligated to understand the • Pfizer Compliance System • Implementation of the EFPIA disclosure initiative: Publication of Work against corruption in legal and ethical aspects that influence our • Code of Business Conduct payments to HCP (Health Care Professionals) and HCO (Health Anti-Corruption all its forms, including extoractions. It is everyone's responsibility to (Pfizer Blue Book) Care Organizations) such as presentation fees, support for tion and bribery ensure that our actions always comply with • Pharmig Code of Conduct congresses for 2015 the principles of integrity. Integrity means • Publication of Pfizer lobbyists in the Austrian lobbying and more than simply obeying the law and guideadvocacy register lines. It is one of Pfizer's core values. Integrity • Regular publication of all support services and donations to reflects who we are as a company and as indipatient organizations and self-help groups viduals. Acting with integrity means that the • Updating and expansion of the „Pfizer Blue Book“ people for whom we perform our services trust and respect us. 5
