COTY UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FISCAL YEAR 2015 ( ENDING J UNE 2015) STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) COTY made a public commitment in early 2015 by signing the Global Compact United Nations (UNGC) the world’s largest corporate citizenship initiative to support the ten principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. With this, comes the expressed intent of making the Global Compact and its principles part of the culture, and operations of the company. Driven by passion, creative freedom, and entrepreneurial spirit, Coty has built a unique portfolio of beauty brands. We are focused on delivering desirable & high quality products to our consumers. We understand that embedding sustainability into our core business, innovation and communication is becoming increasingly critical in developing products that meet consumer demand while addressing global challenges. It begins with operating with integrity all along our value chain. Staying mindful of the impacts of our operations and the products we sell, we are supporting a responsible ecosystem with our people and business partners. We are fostering governance social, environmental and ethical principles in everything we do. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business. In the context of Coty and P&G Specialty Beauty merger, we are currently reviewing our Corporate Responsibility strategy and will share with our stakeholders when ready. Bart Becht Chairman & Interim CEO – January 2016 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT WE SUPPORT: HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI‐CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. COTY – UNGC COP2015 Page 1 OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 ‐ ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Coty revised its internal and external Code of conducts in 2013. Available on our website. These documents are an opportunity to engage in dialogue with our employees and our suppliers, thus to agree upon best standards we deem indispensable for our business. Any breach of this Code shall be considered a material breach of the applicable framework agreement or contract.  CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT : ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEES This Code details COTY employment policies such as equal opportunities, discrimination or harassment prohibition, occupational health and safety rules, personal data protection, drug‐free workplace and product safety and anti‐corruption.  BUSINESS CODE OF CONDUCT : ENGAGING OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS The Code stipulates our commitment to be in full compliance with the labor and human rights, occupational health and safety rules and regulations, environmental laws and regulations. We also added a part dedicated to comply with the conflict minerals act and human trafficking and slavery Act. “COTY SUPPORTS THE UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS, WHICH MEANS THAT WE SUPPORT THE PRINCIPLES STATED IN THAT DECLARATION IN 4 IMPORTANT AREAS: HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOR RIGHTS , PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION .” 2 ‐ IMPLEMENTATION CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT : ENGAGING OUR EMPLOYEES On-line training done for Directors and above. Face-to-face trainings organized to train our employees. Coty Code hotlines activated in 4 languages. Coty puts strong emphasis on compliance with laws and, in particular, with the applicable anti-corruption laws and regulations. Coty has developed a specific compliance program and training materials (focusing on US FCPA & UK anti-bribery act) to support and enhance this compliance through policy, education, monitoring and, if required, enforcement. Annual reporting of the overall activities goes to the Audit&Finance Committee of the Board of Directors. BUSINESS CODE OF CONDUCT : ENGAGING OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS Revised Code of conduct for business partners deployed in January 2014. In a year 95% (in spend) of our suppliers of manufactured materials, finished goods and logistics signed our Code of Conduct. As of January 2014, we revised our procurement policies to ensure the code is systematically attached and signed for any new contract. 3 ‐ MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES EVALUATING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN CSR PERFORMANCE THROUGH A THIRD PARTY CERTIFICATION: ECOVADIS We launched the EcoVadis program, a third-party certification, in January 2015 after a 6-months pilot phase to evaluate and monitor the sustainability performance of our supply chain partners. End June 2015, 43% of the scope* has been assessed. Our supply chain average score for FY15 is 51 (10 points above the EcoVadis global average). Most of our suppliers ranked in the Opportunity zone, meaning that they have a structured and proactive Corporate responsibility approach with some engagements and tangible actions, but with some opportunities of improvement. We also use this audit platform to assess and benchmark our own COTY manufacturing sites. The three European sites assessed are in the Excellence zone. COTY – UNGC COP2015 Page 2 We are committed to continue deploying this third party assessment and engage our suppliers in a continuous improvement process. * CSR scope in spent = all manufactured materials and finished goods + logistics HEALTH AND SAFETY We aim for zero work and environmental accidents in our manufacturing sites and distribution centers. Over the past 5 years we have improved our performance drastically with a 75% reduction in safety incidents. No fatal accident has occurred in the same period. Our safety record of Total Incident Rates (T.I.R), an industry standard, was 0.7 accidents per 200,000 hours worked. We developed a Behavioral Observation System where all employees work to identify risks and eliminate them before the incident or accident occurs. In North America, Human Resources launched end of 2014 a program to build a culture of wellness called Coty Kicks it! The objective is to improve our employees’ health outcomes and reduce health costs. GIVING BACK TO THE COMMUNITY THROUGH PHILANTHROPIC ACTIVITIES Coty is the founding corporate sponsor for Delete Blood Cancer, a non-profit bone marrow donor center. Since 2012, DAVIDOFF Cool Water brand has actively supported National Geographic’s Pristine Seas program. Our skin care and fragrance brand “philosophy” supports the “hope & grace initiative” dedicating 1% of its sales, providing over 100 US community-based mental health organizations each year with up $50,000 in support. Rimmel supported the UK Red Nose Day 2015 partnering with the organization Comic Relief UK through a limited edition lipstick, the sales of which benefited Comic Relief by raising £256,038 SCOPE 1 & 2 CARBON FOOTPRINT We started to collect our GHG emissions in 2013 following international standard ISO14064:1:2006 methodology. Our main emission source (75%) is electricity and the biggest contributor is linked to the activity of our factories and distribution sites. In FY14 our carbon intensity by turnover (scope 1 & 2) is 10tCO2e/$million. Our production sites have implemented action plans to improve their energy and resources based on a sustainability indicator, including energy and water consumption. Ashford Manufacturing site in the United Kingdom is certified ISO14001. Our Morris Plains Research and Development facilities have recently been equipped with solar panels. REDUCING WASTE We target zero landfill disposal by end of 2016 for all our factories. As examples of best practices, thermoplastics from our site in Chartres (France) are recycled: 200 tons are sold to an external company and reused. Our Ashford site (U.K.) reuses the heat generated from plastic incineration. Our North Carolina manufacturing site in Sanford improved solvent use and now reuses 80% of ethyl acetate in the process of production. Waste-sorting and recycling initiatives have been introduced in our newly renovated Paris and New York Headquarters. COTY – UNGC COP2015 Page 3 GOLD LEED CERTIFIED NEW YORK HEADQUARTERS Our New York headquarters based in the Empire State Building have been certified LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design), reaching the Gold certification level. REDUCING OUR WATER CONSUMPTION COTY Granollers factory in Spain developed a circular economy industrial program in collaboration with external partners who reuse the waste water in their production process. They also improved the plant’s cleaning process leading to a reduction of 26,3% in effluents and 21,4% in water consumption between FY12 and FY15. In 2012 Chartres introduced a wastewater recovery program, eliminating all wastewater discharges outside the factory site and decreasing its water consumption by adopting a closed-loop system. Since the implementation of the program, 240 tons of water have been recycled. Ashford decreased its consumption by 57% between 2008 and 2014. ENCOURAGING SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION THROUGH LIFE CYCLE THINKING: We developed a packaging eco-conception checklist and a tool that allows us to compare the impact of packaging raw materials. We organized cross-functional workshops in partnership with Quantis, to improve our teams’ understanding of the environmental impacts of our products throughout their life cycle. In 2015, 100% of our paper sourced in Europe is Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or Pan European Forest Certification (PEFC) certified. In our European factories, we exclusively use naturally sourced Ethanol alcohol from local sugar beets which have been recognized as high yield and noncompeting to food sources. In the US, we limit to 50% of the source of ethanol coming from sugar corn and cane. LEADING POSITIVE CHANGE THROUGH CSR AMBASSADOR NETWORK The COTY CSR Ambassador Program is a voluntary program that empowers employees who have passion and enthusiasm for bringing positive change and well-being to their environment, community, and workplace. The ambassador network is comprised of more than 100 employees across 27 locations in 17 countries; representing all functions of the Company. They engage their respective locations around internationally recognized events such as Women Empowerment Day, Earth Day, and #GivingTuesday through initiatives such as clothing, book and food drives, and sporting events benefiting local non-profit organizations. For Earth Day 2015, we partnered with WeForest, an international reforestation NGO, supporting the mission to Make Earth Cooler by restoring degraded landscapes with forests, and also benefitting local communities economically.. Over 2 years, Coty financed the planting of 40,000 trees across Brazil, Africa and India. MOVING FORWARD Fiscal year 2015 is our first year of reporting on our UNGC principles progress. We have done so transparently and honestly. Sustainability is not a destination; it is a journey to which we are committed. In past years we have built some good foundations on which now to build. Coty has announced a complete restructuring of its business operations and executive team, introducing new business divisions and the merger of a large number of additional beauty brands. The transaction with P&G is expected to be finalized by the second half of 2016, pending regulatory approval by the relevant authorities. To support the magnitude of this change, a new senior executive position has been created putting Andraea Dawson-Shepherd in the role of senior vice president, corporate affairs who will lead our corporate communication and corporate sustainability function. We are in the process of revisiting our Corporate Responsibility strategy in light of the new ambitions of Coty. We expect to be in a position to share new sustainably goals and corporate responsibility programs by early 2017. COTY – UNGC COP2015 Page 4
