Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 2015 Sus tainabilit y Repor t Welcome We are committed to sustainability in all areas of our business, and we strive to be the best in our industry. Because we have experience and are experts in developing advanced and sophisticated products with established brands, we are in a position to inform our customers about where the sustainability of supply chains can be substantially improved. This report illustrates how our sustainability commitment differentiates us in the marketplace and creates value for all our partners including our employees, customers and suppliers. We believe our future success is tied to and dependent on continuing to enhance sustainable practices. It is only through strong and mutually beneficial relationships with stakeholders that we can deliver the best products and drive sustainability. Cover: Brian Gannon / Ethan Ballweber Lauren Brookhart / Natalia Daniel / Anthony Mazzei Table of Contents Our Purpose 2 Product 56 Message from Liam Casey 4 Materials/Life Cycle Analysis 58 Chemicals Management/Mapping 61 About PCH 8 Inventory Management/Delivery 64 PCH in 2015 10 What We Do 12 Factory/Supply Network 66 Where We Operate 17 Worker Safety 68 Sustainability Highlights 18 Health and Safety in Supplier Facilities 71 Partnerships 28 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 76 Suppliers 30 Materiality Matrix 78 Customers 36 How We Communicate with Stakeholders 79 Sustainability Governance 81 People 40 About Our Workforce 42 Looking Ahead 82 Gender and Diversity 44 2016 Goals 84 Developing and Engaging People 45 About This Report 86 Overtime 48 Our Reporting Guidelines 88 Retention 50 Disclosures 89 Grievances 52 Glossary of Terms 90 GRI Index 92 1 Our Purpose p.4 Message from Liam Casey Celia Corrente Developing Partnerships 2 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Purpose PCH is a privately held company with global headquarters in Cork, Ireland, a U.S. Innovation Hub in San Francisco and operational headquarters in Shenzhen, China. Our purpose is “Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind.” This purpose guides our behavior and is the title of this year’s and future years’ sustainability reports. Although as a private company we are not obligated to report on our social, environmental and economic impact, we choose to do so. We have been reporting annually since 2012. The purpose of this report is not only to discuss sustainability activities in 2015 but also to use the data we collect to measure progress, set goals, anticipate future risks, and seize opportunities to do better. This is part of the peace of mind we deliver to our stakeholders. Developing Partnerships 3 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Message from Liam Casey Founder and Chief Executive Officer Developing Partnerships 4 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report The products we deliver touch millions of people around the world. We understand that with this privilege comes responsibility to our many “ Our industry is highly dynamic and stakeholders. Our goal is to operate sustainably in everything we do on an ongoing basis: from how we manage our workforce and how we change is constant, so we will remain design engineer products for the product lifecycle, to how we partner with our suppliers and deliver products from concept to consumer. agile, anticipating trends and adapting We do this because, as we stated in our 2013 report, we believe that quickly. We are constantly evolving operating sustainably is about “Making Better Business.” This is one of the cornerstones of how we think about sustainability and we will see this but our commitment to sustainability theme continue to be part of our business and reports going forward. remains constant.” Our sustainability practices are evolving with our business. We are in a position to influence our customers in a positive way because we are involved earlier and earlier in the product development process. For this Over the past several years PCH has seen a growing demand for reason, we talked in our 2014 report about another key cornerstone sophisticated, connected products that are driving changes in the of our strategy: “Impact by Design.” This theme will continue to be manufacturing process, the composition of our workforce and our important in our ongoing strategy as we find that design decisions are organizational structure. We have made several strategic investments the greatest influence on what happens on the factory floor. to position the company for success, and we expect additional changes will be discussed in our 2016 report. This year, we have named our report, “Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind,” and this will be our sustainability report title Together with our 20 years of manufacturing experience in China, moving forward. PCH’s purpose aligns with our sustainability strategy: PCH now has significant design engineering capability in the U.S. in building and maintaining partnerships to enhance our impact and proximity to Silicon Valley. We will continue to streamline some invalue, and delivering peace of mind. factory engineering and supplier network management services in China, while partnering with the most sophisticated manufacturers. Our industry is highly dynamic and change is constant, so we will remain agile, anticipating trends and adapting quickly. We are constantly We are also seeing that some of our customers are considering evolving but our commitment to sustainability remains constant. developing manufacturing capability in the USA, and this will be a factor in the future, as we help these companies set up sustainable supply chain capability in the USA. Developing Partnerships 5 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Increased transparency is impacting manufacturing and pushing We are diversifying our customer base to work with brands in such the boundaries of supplier network management. Consumers are industries as fashion-tech, Internet of Things (IoT), wearables, health, increasingly favoring social and environmentally conscious brands, beauty and connected devices in general. Companies are choosing to and with that comes a requirement for more information on product work with PCH because of our unique platform that enables them to origins. We are in a position to inform our customers about what create a differentiated customer experience while managing a lean they can do to enhance sustainability in their products. At PCH, we supply chain. We continue to inform our customers about positive are focused on responding to, and embracing, this shift towards choices they can make to operate sustainably. transparency and we encourage our customers to also recognize that We strive to implement best practices across our operations, and we it is better for their business. We see it becoming necessary—and a key are seeing positive change. But there is still work to be done: differentiator for companies—to share with consumers how and where products are made. >> We are making progress in energy monitoring and efficiency. Recently we installed our sixth energy management system, so we Some may find this level of transparency uncomfortable. At PCH we do are now able to track and streamline energy use in three of our own not have all the answers, but we embrace transparency as a positive facilities and in three supplier-owned factories. However, engaging development. Change propelled by customer demand is a powerful suppliers is a challenge, particularly if business with that factory is force in our industry. low volume. See p. 22 >> We continue to improve factory safety and transparency even There are many social and environmental issues, particularly in the beyond industry standards. In 2015 we added more than 150 upstream supplier network, that require change as well as strong, chemicals to our Chemical Evaluation Tool, which helps customers trusting relationships with our partners to drive tangible improvement. and suppliers choose safe chemicals. We are empowering our workers Our strategy is to focus on the elements we can control in our own to resolve problems quickly and safely when issues arise. See p. 61 facilities and those of our close partners while continuing to increase >> We are dedicated to providing training for our employees, including our influence among all partners and the industry in general. opportunities for lifelong learning. In 2015 we developed the Learning Lab in Shenzhen, China which offers classes such as languages and computer skills. A core group of workers actively use the lab. However, it remains difficult to attract new participants and schedule additional classes. See p. 46 Developing Partnerships 6 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Sustainability Report helps guide the strategic direction of our organization through risk and opportunity tracking. We have seen 2015 Trends Across since the beginning of our reporting journey that making an impact on factories we don’t own, but which we do business with, requires Our Business perseverance. By forming more long-term relationships with factories, we are more able to influence their sustainability practices. As PCH celebrates 20 years in business in 2016, we are excited about >> Increase in non-tech companies entering the hardware the opportunities we see to be a positive force in business. market, such as fashion and beauty brands. There is a convergence of fashion and technology in categories In 2016 and beyond we will continue to evolve and align our business like wearables. to strategic growth opportunities by focusing on high-end design >> Increased customization and personalization of products; engineering and specialized manufacturing and distribution, and “orders of one.” moving away from commoditized services. PCH has a valuable role >> Shorter production cycles. to play as more companies develop connected products, or high-design products that deliver a personalized, customized, differentiated and >> Shortening of supply networks and use of data to replace exclusive experience. We are working with customers to deliver “orders inventory. Purchasing decisions based on increased efficiency, transparency and the use of data. of one” that are also environmentally friendly. >> Increased sophistication of factories. We will continue to educate ourselves and enhance our own sustainability >> Focus on sustainable manufacturing to reduce cost practices, and to educate and lead our customers, partners and suppliers. and optimize efficiency. We believe that sustainability is not only the right thing to do for our >> Labor shortage and high turnover rates in factories business, but the right thing to do. in Southern China. Thank you for your interest in our Report and we hope you find it useful. >> Growth of middle-class domestic market in China. >> Environmental protection becoming more important in China, including factory emission reduction driven Liam Casey by local and national government. Founder and Chief Executive Officer >> Increased local manufacturing capability in the U.S. Developing Partnerships 7 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report About PCH p.10 p.12 PCH in What 2015 We Do p.17 p.18 Where We Sustainability Operate Highlights Dean Schneider Developing Partnerships 8 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report About PCH We have unparalleled experience in product engineering and development, supplier network management, manufacturing, fulfillment and distribution. We have a network of suppliers and we have experience assembling and fulfilling products for industries such as consumer electronics, consumer health, fashion tech, beauty, retail and more. Our company goals are to: 1. Be a technology innovator and leader. 2. Work as a strategic partner with our customers — adding value at each step and delivering a great customer experience. 3. Retain our passion for results, and our “can do” attitude. 4. Maintain a progressive, rewarding and special place to work. 5. Operate profitably and sustainably. Developing Partnerships 9 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report PCH in 2015 Global workforce (at Dec. 31) Average number of supplier and PCH workers with access to feedback hotline 5,300 2,347 Developed Learning Lab capability for factory worker education and development in Shenzhen, China Percentage of workforce in China 92% Increased research and development capability in Shenzhen, China Developing Partnerships 10 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Size of operations Factories transacted with (China) 932,829 sq ft ft2 Expanded PCH Innovation Hub 312 campus in San Francisco with the Factories in our network Total number opening of a 10,000-square-foot of global vendors facility for Highway1 1,000+ 362 Highway1 companies Units shipped 23 139M Developing Partnerships 11 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report What At PCH, we design custom product solutions for companies who are passionate about design, brand and the consumer experience. Our customers come to us with groundbreaking new ideas that we turn We Do into products ready for market. PCH works with clients at all phases of the journey. We offer a complete hardware development platform that takes the product from concept to delivery to the customer, or discrete services such as design engineering, manufacturing, p  ack out or distribution. PCH services are customized for each client. PCH brings world-class products to global markets and keeps quality, sustainability, cost and time to market at the forefront of o  ur solutions. “The most ambitious part of our sustainability program is in connection to our supplier network based in China at factories PCH does not own. How realistic is it to implement successful sustainability policies outside our own factories? It is certainly not easy, but it is where we have the potential for the greatest impact.” – Alan Cuddihy, Head of Sustainability, PCH Developing Partnerships 12 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report The PCH Platform Concept Develop Manufacture Pack Out, Fulfill, Sell Design Engineering New Product Introduction Define Explore Architect Build 1 Build 2 Build x Tool Procure Make Pack Out Inventory Fulfill Ship Distribute Sell Mgmt. Sustainability Developing Partnerships 13 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report The PCH Platform: Taking Products from Concept to Consumer Concept Develop Companies come to PCH early in the product concept phase Once a solution has been architected, we move to the design to work with our design engineering division, PCH Lime Lab. engineering phase, which includes mechanical assemblies, PCH Lime Lab develops engineering solutions to bring products successive builds, prototyping, and testing to validate design to market. Our engineers solve complex problems with elegant decisions before moving forward. We identify the most suitable solutions. We have engineering teams in San Francisco and suppliers and configure the supply network before moving into the Shenzhen who include mechanical, systems architecture (electrical, manufacturing phase, which includes tooling and sourcing of firmware and software), manufacturing integration and packaging components, parts and sub-assemblies. engineers as well as system integrators and program managers, among other experts. We seamlessly integrate with our client’s “In a world where everything is the same, people want more sophisticated, industrial design teams and partners. Our goal is to help them design-led, personalized and limited-edition products. People want to explore ways to architect solutions and make the product based show personality and individuality. PCH excels in engineering these types on the desired product design, feature set and use case. During this of hardware products and partnering to design custom supply networks initial phase, we conduct feasibility assessments to identify and to support them.” mitigate risks that can reduce functionality, cause product delays, – Andre Yousefi, Co-founder, PCH Lime Lab or add unnecessary costs. Design Engineering Define Explore Architect Build 1 Build 2 Build x Developing Partnerships 14 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Manufacture Pack Out, Fulfill, Sell After testing and validating the product design, we are ready for In PCH-owned factories in 2015, an average of 1,600 workers focused tooling, production ramp and scale. We refine the production process on product packaging, kitting and fulfillment. These are the final to optimize manufacturing for production volume, scalability, and phases of production before a product is shipped. ultimately cost improvement considerations. Our postponement model allows our partners to design and produce a Integrating sustainable practices into manufacturing and supply built-to-order experience for customers around the world. Customization network management is one of the key values that distinguishes PCH eliminates excessive inventory and shipment costs. This reduces supplier from other manufacturers. We partner with tried and trusted suppliers costs and removes complexity in forecasting and planning. to manage lean supply networks for our customers. Our engineers design for optimal manufacturing and select suppliers for single By collecting data from stores in real time, including how many units components as well as final assembly. We match customers with are selling and why they are selling through, we begin to understand supplier capability, and we manage the product journey every step what products are needed. We continuously work with each customer along the way. to help reduce excess inventory and product obsolescence. Businesses and consumers today demand not only affordable shipping By leveraging PCH, you do not need to hire a large team on the but quick shipping. With automation and efficient fulfillment, PCH ground in China to ensure quality, continuous improvement and good can deliver new products direct to consumers within three days. This process management. We manage the entire product development, allows our customers to effectively penetrate new markets and gain manufacturing operations and delivery, as needed, for our customers. market share quickly. – Valerie Chen, Director of Pack-out, Distribution and Retail, PCH China New Product Introduction Pack Inventory Fulfill Ship Distribute Sell Tool Procure Make Out Mgmt. Developing Partnerships 15 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Highway1 In addition to our product development platform, PCH founded “At PCH we believe that if it can be the hardware accelerator, Highway1, which is considered the premier hardware accelerator in the world. Highway1 helps turn prototypes imagined, it can be made. This belief into products and teams into companies. Highway1 encourages startups to develop products that are useful, delightful and ready is coupled with our determination to to take to investors for funding opportunities. Upon acceptance into the exclusive four-month program, Highway1 startups receive: make a better, more sustainable future.” up to $100,000 in funding; dedicated office space in San Francisco; –Liam Casey, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, PCH 24/7 access to a 1,000-square-foot prototyping lab; and an onsite team composed of electrical and mechanical engineers, business development and marketing experts. In addition, Highway1 has an active alumni network and rich array of mentors available to assist. Louis Thiery / Colin Dignam / Marque Cornblatt Developing Partnerships 16 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Where We Operate Office Location Operations HQ Cork, Ireland Global Headquarters New York Office Shenzhen, China PCH Operational Headquarters: offices, product development lab, research and development lab and two factory facilities* San Francisco Cape Town, PCH Innovation Hub: South Africa PCH U.S., Highway1, Office Hong Kong PCH Lime Lab Office Who we work with Sectors Markets served (by shipments delivered) 93% Fashion 33% Multinational Medical Devices Non-Profit Europe 59% companies North Consumer Electronics America 7% Automotive Industry Furniture Food Smallto medium-sized companies (including startups 8% and industrial design studios) Asia * PCH-owned factories consist of multiple separate factory facilities but one kitting and fulfilment business. Developing Partnerships 17 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Sustainability Our Sustainability Vision At PCH, we believe that if it can be imagined, it can be made. It is this belief that gives us the determination to imagine a better, more Highlights sustainable future. We imagine a future in which consumer products can be built on demand, ensuring that resources are used as efficiently as possible. We imagine a future in which data enables suppliers to become fully transparent, giving companies the ability to track demand and consumers the ability to understand the product life cycle. And we imagine a future where sustainability fosters enduring relationships throughout the supplier network and delivers peace of mind. At PCH we are deeply committed to At PCH we imagine a better, more sustainable future. And we’re sustainability. Our highest priority is working to make this future a reality. looking after those who work for PCH, both directly and indirectly. Most Our Sustainability Strategy of our sustainability impact occurs We make sustainability our business because we believe it is the right in China, where our factories and way to do business. The positive economic, environmental and social impact of our operations is key to driving long-term performance. supplier partners have the greatest Our focus areas are safety, particularly chemical and materials management; supplier qualification and development; energy environmental footprint. We place management; and employee development. high priority on the health, safety and wellbeing of workers at our own factories and those of our suppliers. Developing Partnerships 18 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Sustainability at PCH People Our highest priority is looking after those who work for PCH, both directly and indirectly. Our people are key to our success. Factories Focus Areas Employee development Our purpose is developing and engagement partnerships delivering peace of mind; collaborating with our supply network partners is Gender and diversity key to delivering on this promise. Retention Focus Areas Focus Areas Chemical and safety Chemicals management End of life Energy management Manufacturing Supplier qualification processes and development Waste minimization Products Materials Packaging We take products from concept to consumer balancing cost, quality Sustainable product and sustainability at every step. and packaging design Developing Partnerships 19 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Environmental Impact 1 Our Facilities China 889,724 sq ft These facilities have a low risk for occupational hazards and Total space among all facilities environmental pollution. We have environmental data for 856,981 sq ft for manufacturing, storage and warehousing 910,696 sq ft Electricity is the only significant form 32,743 sq ft for office space of energy consumed in our factories. It is used for air conditioning, lighting and operating machinery associated of our reported operations with packaging and fulfilment. (98% of the total) 5 Buildings 43,000 sq ft Additional dorm space leased in 2 Factories Our factories do not utilize heat or steam. Shenzen, China (environmental data 1 Product development lab not provided by the landlord) 1 Research and development lab 1 Office space U.S. 2 Buildings Natural gas used for heating and hot water. PCH Innovation Hub campus in San Francisco Electricity used for all other needs, including to power state-of-the-art prototyping & systems integration lab. Other These offices are home to sales, These offices use electricity, waste and marketing, information technology domestic water (environmental data not and operations. provided by the landlord). 4 Buildings2 1 Office in Cape Town, South Africa 1 Office in Cork, Ireland 1. All information for our U.S. sites is obtained from third parties. U.S. water use data was 1 Office in Hong Kong received from San Francisco Public Utilities Commission through property management 1 Office in New York company CBRE. U.S. waste data was received from Recology (waste management company). 2. Environmental data is unavailable for our Cork, New York, Hong Kong and Cape Town offices. Developing Partnerships 20 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Resource Use 2015 Electricity Use Water Use Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions 5,721,802 kWh3 global total 48,637 tons 5,213 metric tons of CO2 global total U.S. China U.S. China U.S. China 334,387 kWh 5,387,415 kWh 7,632 tons 41,005 tons 5% 95% 7,058 therms natural gas Total factory 5,247,694 kWh Waste Produced* Hazardous U.S. China 96,225 lbs. U.S. total 4,147 lbs. global total 850 lbs. (1%) 3,297 lbs. Landfill Breakdown, China hazardous waste: 43,800 lbs. (46%) Waste water mixed with lubricant oil: 309 lbs. Hazardous chemical container: 119 lbs. Cloth mixed with lubricant oil: 8 lbs. Waste lubricant oil: 289 lbs. Used batteries: 1,936 lbs. Oil pen/stamp: 134 lbs. Recycling 41,600 lbs. (43%) Light tubes: 355 lbs. Waste electronics: 147 lbs. Exchange resin: 1 lbs. Compost 8,600 lbs. (9%) Recycled electronic waste U.S. 3. 2015 data is for two factory facilities, one product development lab and office space. 1,375 lbs. (1%) * All waste is disposed of by licensed operators. Hazardous waste generated in our facilities is disposed of by a licensed operator in that locality, and is the only available waste data for our China operations. All other waste generated in PCH factories is owned by customers. Developing Partnerships 21 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our change in resource use reflects the growth of our operations along with additional data available to Energy Management Systems us in 2015, e.g., hazardous waste data from our U.S. operations. We saw increases in waste generated at our PCH installed Energy Management Systems in 2014 and 2015 in three PCH facilities in the U.S. and factories in China. Total water facilities and in three supplier facilities in Southern China. Energy management use at PCH decreased, but U.S. water use increased. systems display energy use on easy-to-read computer dashboards. “Through Electricity usage decreased in large part due to our energy management, PCH knows energy consumption within each individual area energy management efforts. of the factory,” said Kenny Chen, engineer manager at a PCH supplier facility. “Our LEED certified San Francisco PCH Innovation Hub “With this real-time system, we can find energy waste behavior and correct it.” grew by 33 percent with the opening of a second building >> The energy management system saves time and reduces the need for manual in 2015, said Emory Jolly, Facilities Manager. Also, the data collection. It tracks energy use daily, weekly and monthly, including PCH Innovation Hub was used for numerous tech and weekends, so engineers can decide when to turn off equipment during periods hardware events throughout 2015, so our water use of low or no production. Chen added, “We can check energy data from a laptop remotely. This helps us analyze situations quickly and take action faster.” increased significantly at this site while our electricity and gas use decreased.” >> Installing the energy management system was a big investment, but it is paying off in lower electricity bills, particularly for air conditioning in factories. >> Electricity used by production equipment is also tracked. Machines that run at maximum power for long periods must be monitored to prevent damage Managing Energy and costly repairs. “Real-time systems can help engineers understand the equipment’s operating demands,” said Mason Li, facility engineer in charge of To reduce our environmental impact, PCH has invested equipment support at a supplier factory. in energy monitoring equipment that enables facility managers to identify energy waste, reduce usage and >> While PCH facilities management teams are proactive in reducing electricity cut costs. waste, they note that most workers are not aware of how or why they should help improve energy efficiency. In one instance, a supplier did not understand Environmental protection is becoming a higher priority the value of energy management systems and therefore did not report when in China, where new legislation was introduced in 2015 a wireless connection was lost. Unstable wireless networks, lost data and poor regulating the management of air quality, waste water maintenance of hardware and software all impact the effectiveness of energy and hazardous solid waste in factories. In 2015, PCH management systems. Due to these challenges, an awareness campaign is planned for 2016 in PCH factories. Also, as part of our strategy to reduce our achieved an overall two percent reduction in both number of suppliers, we plan to reassess suitable supplier partners to roll out electricity use and greenhouse gas emissions. energy management systems in the future. Developing Partnerships 22 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Energy Management System Site Summary PCH Product PCH Factory 1 PCH Factory 2 Development Lab Supplier Site 1 Supplier Site 2 Supplier Site 3 Kitting and Kitting and Product Manufacturing, final Cable Final assembly, fulfillment site fulfillment site development lab assembly, test and pack manufacturing site test and pack Total recorded energy use (kWh) (EMS) 1,499,564 847,380 968,076 9,537,294 2,032,278 447,658 GHG metric tons 1,377 778 889 8,755 1,866 411 Total energy saved across four sites* 1,460,000 1,340 The energy management system is a new system, still with some inconsistencies. In one site where the energy management system was in place from May 2014 and kWh ($265,000 saved) metric tons of CO2 equivalent all of 2015, the overall use from 2014 May to December was 762,291 kWh, while use during the same eight-month period in 2015 was 710,298 kWh (seven percent reduction). * Estimates based on individual projects rolled out– variables such as production quantities, outside temperature and production type are not included). Two of six sites did not provide data on energy saved. Developing Partnerships 23 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Air Conditioning Energy Savings Total energy JULY 9th consumption EMS System (kWh) Implementation 15000 Legend 12000 Chiller Total (kWh) Chilled Water 9000 Pump Total (kWh) 6000 Condensed Water Pump Total (kWh) 3000 Cooling Tower Total (kWh) 0 June June June July July July July July 29 Aug 10-16 17-23 24-30 1-7 8-14 15-21 22-28 Aug 4 5-9 Air Conditioning to ensure the comfort of workers and office staff. We then tested energy use based on one chiller and its pump components. The energy Using our energy management system, we can track the efficiency consumption stabilized despite the outdoor temperature remaining at of existing factory infrastructure. In one supplier factory before we over 30 degrees Celsius. began monitoring, the facility used two chillers, two condensed water pumps, two chilled water pumps and two water tower pumps to air Electricity use for the month before the change was 41,913 kWh, while condition the factory. Chiller equipment uses a significant amount consumption for the following month was 27,779 kWh. This saved of energy. The energy management system showed that the energy the factory $12,980 from July to November 2015 and reduced energy load was fluctuating and operating inefficiently. We shut down one consumption by thirty-four percent during this period.4 chiller and monitored water temperature to make sure it stayed within an appropriate range. We also tracked indoor temperatures 4. Cost of electricity is USD$0.18/kWh. Developing Partnerships 24 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Air Compressor supplier facility, the punching machines were still turned on and using electricity. By turning off the equipment when not in use, the factory Air compressors are a valuable component in manufacturing equipment saved 500 kWh per day, or approximately $1,108 for the rest of 20155. because they control the air valve in punching machines which are used to cut materials such as leather or fabric. While these machines use electricity, they also require energy to make compressed air. 5. Based on equipment being turned off for 50 percent of the Sundays from July-December (total of 24 Sundays), there was a 500 kWh per day savings from July to December 2015. The total saving for 12 Sundays is USD $1,108. From the energy management system, we found that on certain Sundays throughout the year when there was no production at a Shilan Liu Developing Partnerships 25 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Sustainability Progress More to do Ongoing Complete Status Commitments from our 2014 Report 2015 Status Continued sustainability support and learning sessions for Highway1 companies were invited to a discussion on processes and materials in Highway1 companies. 2015; seven out of 23 companies signed up. Continued engagement with PCH startup customers and suppliers to ensure All PCH startup suppliers participate in standard PCH supplier qualification their products are made sustainably. This will include chemical assessments, practices. In addition, members of the PCH startup team were trained in chemical material analysis and supplier development projects. management and awareness. Continue to educate ourselves and our customers on sustainable design and Case-by-case packaging and product reviews conducted for customers. Life cycle offer life cycle assessment of products and packaging at the design stage. analysis included in new project proposals. See p. 59. Develop a materials library. During 2015 PCH engineers in San Francisco began to develop a materials library, collecting samples and rating them for sustainability impact. Implement employee guidelines and policies for PCH employees globally; Employee Guidelines and Policies to be rolled out for all corporate staff in 2016/17. implement health and safety management, injury or incident reporting system companywide. Implement a safety plan for equipment use at PCH Innovation Hub in The PCH Innovation Hub in San Francisco rolled out a Site Emergency San Francisco. Response plan in 2014. Map and identify conflict minerals in the PCH supply network. We continue to map minerals in supply networks on behalf of our customers. Continue to develop and build energy monitoring systems and energy We now operate real-time energy monitoring in six facilities (three PCH facilities improvement plans across PCH-owned and supplier factories. and three supplier facilities). Developing Partnerships 26 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report More to do Ongoing Complete Status Commitments from our 2014 Report 2015 Status Continued compliance with applicable workforce management regulations. We continue to manage our factories to meet local and international regulations. Monitor overtime in our own and supplier factories. We achieved 100% compliance of overtime policy among PCH employees in China. Engage with customers to manage production forecasts to prevent labor We maintained Human Resources (HR) presence at key supplier sites to assist in and safety violations. managing labor requirements. We appointed Employee Health and Safety (EHS) staff from PCH to work at supplier sites to develop and manage health and safety programs. Implement chemical management best practices and increase awareness Over 20 suppliers were engaged for chemical mapping and management in 2015. and training across PCH and supplier facilities. Training on chemical management best practices was provided to these suppliers and to PCH employees. Continue to assess each inventory management and distribution plan to We continue to assess the best inventory management solutions for our customers ensure we offer a suitable solution for each product. on a case-by-case basis. Continue to encourage diversity and equal opportunity across This year we are reporting companywide data on diversity. our organization. Develop Learning Lab in PCH and supplier facilities for all factory Developed Learning Lab at PCH factory sites in 2015. See p. 46 employees’ use. Offer hourly rates to certain salaried workers in our U.S. operations who work Seven staff in our U.S. operations were paid an hourly rate for their work. a lot of overtime. Report on the entire PCH group of companies. Our 2015 Report covers the same entities as our 2014 Report, with additional data on our sustainability performance included. Additional entities, namely TNS Connect and Fab, are not included in this Report. Work with pro-social entrepreneurs – those with hardware ideas that aim to PCH announced our Clinton Global Initiative commitment Make for Impact in 2015 solve social and environmental problems or affect positive change. which supports pro-social hardware entrepreneurs. Developing Partnerships 27 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Partnerships p.30 Suppliers p.36 Customers Chen Aiying Developing Partnerships 28 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Partnerships PCH views sustainability the same way we see business: When we notice that something can be made better, we don’t look at limitations – we see opportunity. We have the opportunity to influence our suppliers’ and customers’ sustainability practices. These relationships must be grounded by strong business ties. We are working to reduce the number of suppliers in favor of stronger strategic supplier relationships. We partner with our customers to make informed decisions about product materials, processes, packaging and shipping. Developing Partnerships 29 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Suppliers “We work with customers who are innovating in their industry. We are a leading partner for companies creating new categories of products and packaging, and so we see challenges that must be resolved and are able to find solutions because of our experience.” – Josa Leung, Design Manager, PCH The PCH Supply Network To create each product, multiple factories are often required. In turn, these factories utilize other factories to produce their materials. The diagram below represents the complexity of the supply network for each product, as well as the influences and controls that PCH has over each link in the chain. PCH Packaging PCH Fulfillment PCH Engineering PCH-owned Factories Components Raw Materials PCH Clients PCH Supplier Network PCH Access* PCH Lime Lab* Delivery Manufacturing Parts Highway1* TNS^ FAB^ PCH Controlled * PCH controls these programs, but we are only positioned to influence PCH Influenced the participating companies/startups involved. ^ PCH does not report on these companies. Developing Partnerships 30 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Supplier Qualification PCH spend. For customer-selected suppliers, we do not perform our own audits but work with customers to conduct audits that meet By working closely with our suppliers and other partners, their specifications. we ensure that materials used in production are better for people and the environment. We encourage and expect our network of suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct and to operate to the highest standards of Our sustainable supplier network program is a four-step process: social and environmental compliance, even beyond what is mandated. In reality, our suppliers, particularly smaller ones, do not always have 1. PCH procurement team or customer identifies supplier the resources to implement all environmental and social programs. based on capabilities. For example, a supplier will say that their employees are free to reject 2. PCH Sustainability Team conducts a factory readiness an overtime offer, or can join a worker’s organization at will, but in assessment to determine if supplier can meet PCH or practice this is not always the case. We continue to audit our supplier customer audit requirements. factories and influence our supply network to raise the bar on social and environmental compliance. 3. Independent third party auditor appointed by customer conducts supplier audit. or How We Manage Our Supplier Network PCH audit team conducts onsite Corporate Social Responsibility We follow industry best practices and consider the issues of social, (CSR) risk assessment. The team rates supplier performance and environmental, health and safety impact and business risk when management systems and identifies areas for improvement. determining which suppliers to audit. Audits set a baseline; they Suppliers have three months to follow up on action items. cover quality, sustainability and chemical management practices. We cannot audit every individual supplier as this would require 4. Once the supplier is admitted to the PCH network, the substantial resources, therefore we focus on areas of the supply Sustainability Team conducts supplier development programs, network that pose risk. Audits identify preferred suppliers, with including health and safety, system building, energy monitoring, scores weighted at 50 percent for quality, 35 percent for social and chemical mapping and social programs. environmental practices and 15 percent for chemical management. We have two types of suppliers at PCH: those selected by PCH and In addition to annual audits, PCH conducts monthly and quarterly those selected by our customers. In 2015 our customers chose 59 business reviews with key suppliers and maintains on-site presence percent of all suppliers used by PCH, representing 64 percent of all at factories. Developing Partnerships 31 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Supplier Network 45% Hardware 46 5% Electrical New Engineering 4% Mechanical Engineering Supplier 3% Printing and Packaging Spend by 312 Industry 266 Existing 21% Final Assembly, Test and Pack Total Suppliers 22% Service Items and Consulting 92% China 66% in Guangdong 8 2.1 32% in Jiangsu 7% Europe 2% in Shanghai and Suppliers other parts of China years by 1% North America Location Average number Average length of of suppliers supplier relationship per customer Developing Partnerships 32 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Supplier Audits Going beyond compliance with supplier development programs Audits are conducted in PCH-selected facilities only. 80+ suppliers visited by PCH Sustainability Team Results 124 PCH-selected 40+ suppliers engaged for sustainability assessments suppliers and improvement programs 4 suppliers engaged for chemical programs 312 Total 2 customers engaged 188 for chemical programs Suppliers Customer-selected Standard compliance programs 5 suppliers engaged suppliers for social programs 69 suppliers audited 2 customers engaged for social programs 38 existing, 31 new 6 suppliers engaged for health and safety programs 1,400+ Results 2 customers engaged for 8 suppliers failed health and safety programs 4 failed due to their 6 factories engaged for sustainability performance energy programs Hours spent on health and safety at supplier sites 4 failed for quality reasons 1 customer engaged for energy programs 6 suppliers were re-audited and passed 1,300+ chemicals and materials mapped since 2014; 150+ added 2 did not receive any business in 2015 Developing Partnerships 33 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Supplier Performance in 2015 All new hires to PCH have their identity and age verified by our HR teams. For our suppliers, we check for child labor at audit and our Going beyond basic compliance and audits is a key component of policy follows industry recommendations. All 69 audits conducted in our sustainability strategy at PCH. 2015 included a check for child labor and prevention systems as well as factory floor spot checks. In 2015 we transacted with 312 suppliers in China. The majority of our company spend is amongst customer-selected suppliers but we In 2015 during a customary audit in our supplier network, we focus our development programs on PCH-selected suppliers where identified a single incident of child labor involving a 15-year-old boy. we can have the greatest influence. The supplier had been chosen by our customer. We took immediate action to have the management remove the child from the factory and return him to his parents. We reinforced with factory officials our zero tolerance policy and the severity of this violation. Audit Findings Once the corrective action had been taken, we made the difficult When identifying a supplier to work on a customer project in 2015, decision to continue working with the factory while educating we found that their pay systems were inadequate and they had a the supplier about implementing preventative measures. Our history of employee salary deductions as a disciplinary measure. customary practice for these violations is to immediately stop all This violates PCH and industry standards. activity and discontinue working with the factory. In this case, as The supplier wanted to pass the upcoming audit and work with this was an isolated incident, we determined it was beneficial to our customer, and equally the supplier was critical to the project’s educate the factory management, monitor and work to prevent success. The supplier agreed to discontinue this practice and any further violation. therefore passed the audit (which was conducted by independent When PCH re-audited the supplier, there was no finding of child auditors). However, we are aware that this and other wrongdoings labor; however, the factory had not carried out a prevention and can reoccur if a supplier covers up the violation in subsequent remediation plan that was satisfactory to PCH. The factory will be audits. We continue to work with this supplier and will re-audit the audited again, and failure to implement an effective child labor supplier in 2016. policy will result in termination of our business with this supplier. We have a zero tolerance policy towards child labor in our own and Regarding young workers (aged 16 to 18), we had no young workers supplier facilities. Child labor refers to any worker under the age of 16. or students (participants in internships arranged through an Developing Partnerships 34 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report educational institution) working with us in 2015. Twenty-four percent of our audited suppliers hire young workers and none of our audited supplier factories hire student workers. To see our full policy, please go to our website www.pchintl.com/ sustainability/policies-and-code-of-conduct/supplier-code-conduct/. Small suppliers are often less costly to customers, but if they are not interested in or knowledgeable about Corporate Social Responsibility, their labor and safety management practices can fall short of our standards. To manage this risk, in 2015 we visited 12 small factories being used for one production run. In this case, the factories represented less than one percent of PCH’s global annual spend with suppliers. Typically, they would not have qualified for an audit. However, we decided for risk mitigation reasons to check them for all zero-tolerance practices (including child labor and falsification of salary or working hours records) as well as safety standards such as emergency exits and fire hazards. We also evaluated them on Li AiLi capability, innovation and attitude. We were satisfied that if these suppliers were to go through a full CSR audit, they would have most likely passed the audit. We made a variety of recommendations to the factories to improve their operations, which included recommendations on chemical management and employee safety. Goals for 2016 In 2016 we plan to reexamine our supplier selection and management strategies to ready our business for future customer needs. As part of this effort, we will request that sustainability team members attend all project kickoff meetings to understand customer sustainability requirements and supplier development opportunities. Developing Partnerships 35 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Customers Our Customer Base Our customer base is diverse, ranging from startups to large corporations. They include seasoned electronic manufacturers as well as newcomers to the tech scene from the beauty, fashion and furniture industries. As such, their expectations and values around sustainability vary. In the case of large brands, we partner to implement our customers’ codes of conduct across the supplier network. When a company is new to manufacturing or hardware, we advise on best practices and help them define what their minimum requirements should be and where they can do more. Encouraging sustainable products and manufacturing processes is dependent on us getting our customers enthusiastic and engaged. We realized in 2015 that many of our customers did not understand “We encourage our customers to consider their sustainability priorities, such as policies on chemical management, child labor and health and safety. Getting customers excited about these programs and expecting best practices in their supply network is essential to driving improvement in supplier performance.” – Fiona Lowbridge, Head of Global Account Management, PCH Developing Partnerships 36 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report the sustainable solutions available to them. We began to include sustainability indicators in new business proposals. These include Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) for packaging and other product solutions. Whether this results in sustainable choices by our customers, we want to arm them with complete knowledge about the impact of their products. Customer Satisfaction Customer satisfaction remains central to our success at PCH. In 2015 we rolled out online customer satisfaction surveys and retention programs across our major service lines. Customers were surveyed twice during 2015 or provided feedback directly to their account manager. We used the Net Promoter Score (NPS) which gauges customer loyalty on a scale of -100 to +100. Survey results put our score above average across our industry at 33 in June 2015 and at 50 in December 2015.6 All feedback was investigated including requests for technical upgrades, enhanced project communication and cost reduction in the supply network. 6. Survey of all current customers, response rate of 38%. Survey Monkey Benchmark Data comparing PCH to over 76,000 professional services organizations based on industry, size and location. Liang Xiang Developing Partnerships 37 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Startups and Manufacturing Highway1 We continue to work with a number of late-stage hardware startups Highway1 companies that participate in our accelerator program moving to production. We leverage suppliers from our existing are based at our PCH Innovation Hub in SF. The program includes approved supplier network, but finding the right factories can be visits to factories in the U.S. and in China to expose teams to the challenging for startups whose orders are magnitudes smaller than manufacturing landscape globally. In 2013 and 2014, all Highway1 established brands. PCH assists startups to find suitable factories and companies participated in the sustainability program. In 2015, the we provide training, chemical analysis, design and material support program was offered in a less formalized way. Highway1 companies on individual projects. were invited to sign up for a discussion on processes and materials, and seven out of 23 companies participated. During 2015 we focused on reducing the number of suppliers used for startup customers. Suppliers prefer larger volume orders which startups simply cannot promise. In 2014 we used 32 suppliers for our startup customers, reducing this to 27 in 2015. Of these, 30 percent worked with more than one startup. By giving fewer factories more business, we foster a stronger relationship with suppliers. For example, one supplier received business from 10 startup customers. By the numbers: >> 36: percent of startups that came from Highway1 to manufacture with PCH in China >> 55: percent that are manufacturing or shipping products >> 14: average number of months to get a product to market >> 5: average number of suppliers per customer Developing Partnerships 38 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Highway1 in 2015 5% Agriculture 65% U.S. 5% Drones 35% 5% Video Health 5% Ireland 4% Technology 4% Environmental 5% Netherlands Type of 4% ECommerce Home 4% Russia Product Country 4% Music 4% South Africa 4% Education, Toys 4% England 13% Smart Home 4% Robotics 13% India 9% Wearable 4% Transportation 26% Number of Companies Investment Raised of 2015 startups are 23 in 2015 $13M+ in 2015 solving a social or environmental problem in agriculture, environment and healthcare fields. 58 Total between 2013-2015 $84M+ Total between 2013-2015 Developing Partnerships 39 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report People p.42 p.44 About Our Gender and Workforce Diversity p.45 p.48 Developing Overtime and Engaging People p.50 p.52 Retention Grievances Long XiaoYu Developing Partnerships 40 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report People The safety and wellbeing of the people who work for both PCH and at supplier companies is our greatest priority and essential to our future. Our Corporate Social Responsibility priorities include employee health and safety training, a mentorship program, educational offerings, social and cultural activities, and a variety of grievance channels. We encourage teamwork to empower our employees to help improve the safety and quality of our workplace. Because of our commitment to open communication, we offer our factory workers not only a telephone hotline but also an online app for company announcements plus instant messaging to reach coworkers and managers. Developing Partnerships 41 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report About Our Workforce 2,347 2.8 Total workforce years Average length of service Gender Global Workforce 56% 44% In support of our growth strategy, we plan to increase our engineering staff in San Francisco and reduce factory services in China in 2016. The reduction of workforce and continued realignment of our business is necessary to remain competitive and to grow our business where we see opportunity. Female employees Male employees Employees Supervised Total % of total Region Operators Office workers7 workforce workforce staff U.S. and 0 113 14 127 5% 64% Age Canada Between 30-50 China 1,390 768 4 2,162 92% and Hong Kong Employee 34% Under 30 Age Range Ireland 0 47 2 49 2% South 0 9 0 9 1% 2% Above 50 Africa Total 1,390 937 20 2,347 Developing Partnerships 42 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Education Level of PCH Employees 27% University/bachelor and above 1% Below middle school education 18% Senior leadership is female 300+ Engineers globally 11% Education 35% College (without Level Middle school bachelor degree) Attained education Parental Leave 9% 17% We abide by all parental leave entitlements in accordance with local laws. More than Secondary/ High school 88 percent of eligible PCH employees who took parental leave in 2015 returned to technical school education work afterwards. Male Female Total Entitled to parental leave during 2015 10 46 56 99% Contract Type Full-time employees Took parental leave during 2015 10 32 42 Total number returning to work after 10 27 37 parental leave (due to return during 2015 1% up to 31 Dec 2015) Supervised workers7 Employee Return to work rate 8 100% 84% 88% Types Retention rate9 78% 80% 79% 7. Supervised workers are all non-employees: workers hired through dispatch agencies 71% or contractors, consultants and occasional interns. of staff covered by 8. Calculated as 2015 returned/2015 took leave. Collective Bargaining Agreement 9. Calculated as total number of employees retained 12 months after returning to work following a period of parental leave in 2014/Total number of employees returning from parental leave in 2014). Developing Partnerships 43 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Gender and Diversity is especially important in the hardware and technology sectors, where creativity is vital for success but where women are often underrepresented. We believe empowering women in the workplace means empowering the global business sector overall. Diversity We plan to review our data on gender diversity and use this information to inform policies and set goals. We will communicate our progress in 2016. Employee category by gender & age M F <30 30-50 >50 Senior leadership 82% 18% 0% 55% 45% Senior management 75% 25% 0% 70% 30% Middle management 58% 42% 9% 88% 3% Senior professionals 69% 31% 3% 91% 6% Professionals 60% 40% 22% 77% 1% Technical staff 74% 26% 41% 53% 6% Factory office staff 38% 62% 58% 40% 2% Factory production staff 34% 66% 41% 59% 0% Developing Partnerships 44 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Zhang YuanYuan Developing Community building efforts in our factories have strengthened every year since we began to partner with external organizations such as Little Bird in 2012 and the social enterprise MicroBenefits in 2013. These efforts culminated in the development of the Learning Lab and Engaging in 2015 beside two PCH factories where all workers have access to 4,700 square feet of library, classroom and activity space. A community building success story is the messaging app WeChat, People which has gained popularity among PCH employees since it was first offered by Little Bird in 2014. Little Bird uses WeChat to make announcements about classes, activities and news. Workers can use the app to chat with other employees in the factories, including the factory general manager. Developing Partnerships 45 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Little Bird/Learning Lab Employee education and engagement programs are benefits available to A diverse group of people use the Learning Lab for classes ranging from most factory workers in Southern China. The challenge is getting workers language lessons to computer skills to makeup tips. “Every course we to participate in the numerous social activities, learning opportunities and prepare, people come to. There are 200 to 300 participants who come communication channels offered by PCH through its partnership with Little regularly, but recruiting new participants is still a challenge,” Zhai said. Bird. In 2015 in Shenzhen, PCH developed the Learning Lab which offers a variety of classes to employees. More courses in computer skills and information technology are of special interest and we are working to expand these courses, she added. “These programs have become popular among brands, but ours differs Because many parents are interested in enhancing their parent-child because we are integrated into the factories where we operate,” said communication skills, a parental communication program is planned for Celine Zhai, Sustainability Program Manager at PCH. “We have feet on 2016. “Some programs we start are not successful and we learn from the ground, working to keep an eye on what’s going on. The people, the this and make adjustments,” Zhai said. “For example, an online learning tools and facilities like the Learning Lab are situated in or next to the program offered through MicroBenefits was not popular. Login rate was factories. Our people are in constant communication with the employees very low. So this program was discontinued.” in person, rather than through a hotline only.” MicroBenefits We have partnered with MicroBenefits since 2013 to provide employee Because of low usage, we plan to discontinue MicroBenefits in 2016. training through a smartphone app across PCH and supplier sites. We also plan to reassess our employee partnerships to ensure that We noticed a decline in use of the app as workers turned to in-person the services we offer correspond with the interests and needs of training at the Learning Lab. On average, 220 employees logged on the our workforce. MicroBenefits newsfeed each month in 2015 compared to over 3,500 per month throughout 2014. This decline is likely due to employees switching to the WeChat app to access news offered by Little Bird. Developing Partnerships 46 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Little Bird Journey Instant Messages 12,989 instant Over messages since 2012 38,000 library visits 4,297 instant messages in 2015 2015 Over Cultural Integration 21,000 hotline correspondences Development of Learning Lab at PCH factory sites available to an average of 1,600 workers each 33 training sessions in 2015 since 2012 10 month. Over 1,500 attendees at social activities and training 7 training sessions in 2014 2014 Over sessions. Fourteen workers commence degree programs 2,000 survey respondents to evaluate Additional libraries open across dormitory sites. at local Shenzhen University. WeChat and instant message group has over 1,100 members. Social Activities and Training WeChat app established and understand worker feedback 2013 with over 200 members. 1,500+ people attended 60+ social activities and training sessions in 2015 Over 10,000 correspondences logged. 1,000+ people in 2014 First library opens in supplier factory dorm block with over 11,000 visits. Over 350 attendees at social events. Surveys Completed 2012 1,000+ surveys completed in 2015 (2000+ to date) PCH and Little Bird create first corporate covering: feedback on activities, partnership to offer hotline services in training sessions, questionnaires Shenzhen, China to understand needs to understand worker rights, of the factory workforce. parenting and future plans. 10. A correspondence is calculated as one call or one full engagement through instant messaging (number of correspondences back and forth are not counted, rather the entire engagement). Developing Partnerships 47 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Overtime A standard work schedule in China is 40 hours per week with no more than 36 overtime hours per month. All overtime is voluntary, and workers are entitled to at least one day off per seven-day week. Workweeks exceeding 60 hours are deemed excessive by industry associations. Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires that workers should work no more than 60 hours per week, including overtime, except in emergency or unusual situations. The opportunity to work overtime hours is a priority for our workforce and if it is not available, many workers will seek alternative employment. In the past, we used agency (or dispatch) workers to meet high demand. Reducing our reliance on dispatch staff in our factories has been a key focus for us over the past three years. It is also key to our reduction in breaches of our overtime standards. “Our employees like to work overtime. In 2015 no one breached our maximum guideline of 60 hours per week. Reaching 100 percent compliance is almost unheard of in our industry. And we reached 99 percent compliance in 2013 and 2014 as well.” – Celine Zhai, Sustainability Program Manager, PCH Developing Partnerships 48 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Overtime 2013 2014 2015 Average working week 53 51 52 (hours) Compliance with code 99% 99% 100% of conduct Breaches of 60-hour work 5 8 0 week (number of weeks) Average rest days 5 5 6 per month Breaches of one rest 5 6 0 day per week Overtime breaches generally are caused by condensed production schedules and shortage of labor. We continually monitor overtime and strive to have zero percent breach of our standard, which was achieved in 2015 for the first time at PCH. Liu Qiang Developing Partnerships 49 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Retention Retaining top talent across our diverse workforce is a priority. We invest in our factory workforce and our corporate employees through loyalty programs, benefits, training and development opportunities. In 2015 our global employee turnover averaged six percent each month (also six percent in 2014). Among our corporate employees, the average monthly turnover rate was 0.4% percent (one percent in 2014). The average monthly turnover rate among our factory employees was seven percent (eight percent in 2014).11 PCH's average monthly factory employee 11. Calculated as the geometric monthly mean of all leaver employees/average number of employees turnover rate in 2015. 7% Turnover Age # Male % Joiners 2015 # Female % # Total % # Male % Leavers 2015 # Female % # Total % < 30 697 38% 507 27% 1,204 65% 640 32% 530 27% 1,170 59% Industry 30 – 50 215 12% 417 23% 632 34% 299 15% 505 25% 804 40% average 10-15% > 50 PCH Total 5 917 <1% 4 928 <1% 9 1,845 <1% 14 953 1% 4 1,039 <1% 18 1,992 1% Region US 26 1% 10 1% 36 2% 18 1% 5 <1% 23 1% Europe 3 <1% 8 <1% 11 1% 1 <1% 6 <1% 7 <1% China 886 48% 909 49% 1,795 97% 930 47% 1,027 52% 1,957 98% Rest of World 2 <1% 1 <1% 3 <1% 4 <1% 1 <1% 5 <1% PCH Total 917 928 1,845 953 1,039 1,992 Developing Partnerships 50 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report “The mentorship program facilitates Employee Training discussions that would not ordinarily and Development occur during the work day, and encourages people to take control All PCH factory staff receive on-the-job training to ready of their careers and ask questions.” them for their particular role. In addition, the factory offers – Participant, mentorship program, PCH U.S. additional career enhancing training to both office and production staff. Across PCH, staff participate in numerous training and development sessions throughout the year such as: >> 498 participants in over 4,000 hours of training on customer service, English and Chinese proficiency, management skills, soft skills and technical workshops. >> Presentations held across PCH educated staff on the role of teams and services across the company, including sustainability. >> Factory staff attended over 23,000 hours of training including human rights and CSR training as well as additional courses on management, finance and health and safety. >> Factory workforce engagement. See p. 45 >> Mentorship program at PCH Lime Lab. All PCH employees can apply for a mentor. Doris Chen / Elle Wang Developing Partnerships 51 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Grievances Our Grievance Mechanisms Our grievance mechanisms are tailored to local markets. In our corporate offices, HR teams and management are trained to foster an open door culture among staff. In our factories, formal procedures are implemented. We want our workers to feel they have a forum to express concerns, and we want them to trust that their concerns will be taken seriously and resolved in a fair and timely manner. Much of the feedback we receive continues to center around suggestions for workplace improvement or seeking clarification of applicable rules and regulations. While Little Bird and MicroBenefits are independent organizations, the partnership they forged between PCH and our workforce has encouraged open dialogue. We continue to operate multiple grievance mechanisms, and most are available 24 hours a day. We operate five grievance systems for our monthly average of 1,600 factory workers representing 68 percent of our global workforce. Human Resources (HR) or factory management can be reached via: 1. Direct contact with line-leader, supervisor or manager. We want our workers to feel they 2. Suggestion box – Employees can make anonymous have a forum to express concerns, recommendations. The boxes are opened every Monday and and to trust that their concerns action is taken within 15 days, with some exceptions. For example, where a worker survey is required to get wider employee will be taken seriously. feedback, more time is needed to fully investigate the case. Developing Partnerships 52 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 3. Employee forum – Held once per quarter, the forum is Number of Grievances 2012-2015 attended by employee representatives, the factory general manager, the HR manager and the internal audit team. Responses and improvements are posted on a notice board within three months. 4. Little Bird – Little Bird sends employee suggestions 15 27 141 245 to factory HR once a week. Most issues are resolved within one month, or if an emergency arises, it is 2012 2013 2014 2015 addressed immediately. 5. MicroBenefits – The employee smartphone app includes a function that allows employees to contact HR directly with suggestions, complaints and feedback. 8% Other: Employee Relationship, Training, The majority of grievances were received via Little Bird in Leave, Personal Issues 9% 2015, and almost half concerned factory management. Food The number of grievances increased significantly in 2014 and 2015, which can be attributed to several factors. First, 11% marketing efforts promoted the various ways workers can Pay & Welfare voice their concerns. Second is the ease of using the WeChat phone app to contact management directly. Finally, we believe worker confidence has increased because issues are discussed freely at scheduled employee meetings. We 2015 welcome all feedback because we want our workers to be Grievances open with us and to trust that problems will be corrected. by Type 11% Management endeavors to close all grievances within three Social Insurance months and address serious grievances immediately. All & Housing Fund 47% Factory grievances received in 2015 were closed by year end. Management 14% Dorms Developing Partnerships 53 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Sample Grievances in 2015 1 2 3 A female worker contacted the A male worker named “Sun” was Many workers contacted Little Bird Little Bird hotline as she found reassigned from line work to a material about the temperament of their line her role challenging due to the handling position. He found the work tiring leader. They complained that she was requirement to lift boxes. Little and tedious, and he told the line leader verbally abusive over minor issues. Little Bird requested that factory that he preferred his previous role. Sun Bird approached factory management management review the physical contacted Little Bird who spoke to the line and the line leader was given a verbal abilities of those assigned to the leader on Sun’s behalf. The line leader warning. There was no improvement in role. Management conducted a suggested approaching the other line her behavior towards the line workers review and when Little Bird followed workers to check if any were interested in following the appropriate warning up, she reported that she was working as a material handler. One worker mechanisms. Therefore, it was requested reassigned to another position. agreed to swap with Sun and take the that she return to line work and an material handler position. alternative line leader was appointed. Developing Partnerships 54 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Goals for 2016 PCH will implement a global grievance mechanism as part of our Employee Guidelines to be rolled out in 2017. Chen Xing / Zhang Xiao Developing Partnerships 55 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Product p.58 Materials/ Life Cycle Analysis p.61 Chemicals Management/ Mapping p.64 Inventory Management/ Delivery Li QiYu Developing Partnerships 56 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Product We seize the opportunity to educate our customers about the impact of products we make from design to manufacturing and from consumer to end of life. We strive to influence industrial designers to engrain sustainability into their processes. At PCH, product sustainability addresses materials, chemicals, conflict minerals, packaging, shipping and inventory management. Developing Partnerships 57 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Yang Dong E Materials/ We conduct packaging reviews for our customers to help them make the best decisions about quality, cost and sustainability. We design, develop and produce beautiful, sustainable solutions that have the maximum positive impact on the consumer experience and the least Life Cycle impact on the environment. Packaging Lifecycle Analysis (LCA) is now available to all PCH customers. LCA is the systematic approach of assessing the Analysis environmental impact of a product’s entire lifecycle, from raw materials to end-of-life disposal. Packaging LCA integrates sustainability into design to reduce packaging and improve the consumer experience. Developing Partnerships 58 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Sustainable BEFORE — Original Packaging Design Bulky rectangular cube Nobody wants an unhappy customer, but that’s what happened Difficult when a particularly fragile designer lamp had a high rate of to open damage during shipping. The original packaging used a lot of plastic foam, which is one of the most difficult materials to recycle. The package was also big and bulky, which added to shipping costs. AFTER — PCH Solution Smaller size The creative team at PCH designed a form-fitting package using (-22%) thin sheets of plastic foam that cut packaging materials by 97 percent. The new design reduced shipping costs and space, and – more importantly – passed the drop test to reduce breakage. Easy to open Damage during transit was reduced by 84 percent. tabbing system “Our new packaging design has Reduced shipping cost from China to San Francisco greatly reduced damages during Less space (-13.3%) needed shipping, and allowed nearly all of on pallet Reduced use of plastic foam (unit carton the packing material to be recycled. -27%) (~95% ) This was a big win.” – Anh Giang, Director of Sourcing, PCH 84% less damage/ breakage in transit Developing Partnerships 59 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Conflict Minerals Materials Library During 2015 PCH engineers in San Francisco began to develop a materials library, collecting samples and rating them for Avoiding the use of conflict minerals continues to be their sustainability impact. The project is live and will continue a priority for us and our customers. We welcome the into 2016. We conduct material assessments and research advent of conflict minerals mapping as it encourages alternatives on a case-by-case basis for our customers. suppliers to be transparent and track potential use of these minerals that are mined in areas of the world where there is armed conflict and human rights abuses. 12. http://www.oecd.org/corporate/mne/mining.htm Most electronic manufacturers have a mapping system in place in accordance with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidance for Responsible Supply Networks of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas.12 Gathering accurate data is still a challenge for our customers. In 2015 we mapped conflict minerals in supply networks on behalf of our customers. We found that our suppliers were generally responsive and completed surveys about the materials and minerals they were using. However, we noted that many suppliers are yet unfamiliar with the purpose of these surveys and do not see the value of them. All suppliers that were contacted responded to the surveys, but none reported use of conflict minerals in their facilities. We were satisfied with these results as the products mapped were soft goods which used leather and plastic parts. Yoav Ben-Haim Developing Partnerships 60 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Chemicals Chemicals used in factories are our biggest health and safety concern. Proper and safe chemical use is important not only to PCH but also to our entire industry. We spend considerable time and resources identifying and managing chemicals used in our own and Management/ our suppliers’ factories. Mapping Chemical Mapping Tool Our customers are increasingly interested in understanding what chemicals are used in their products, especially when products are wearable. We document and map every chemical that we encounter in our supply network in a continuous bid to build a chemicals database and assessment tool at PCH. In 2015 we added more than 150 chemicals to our evaluation tool. To date, over 1,300 chemicals and processes have been documented by the Sustainability team which are then evaluated for safe handling and use by suppliers. Hazardous chemicals are those that are poisonous, corrosive, explosive or ignitable and which may pose a hazard towards a person, equipment or the environment. Hazardous agents get into the body by inhalation more than by any other route. Therefore, chemical exposure on the factory line is a critical concern. Developing Partnerships 61 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Chemical Cleaners Our Policy When we examine chemicals, we consider both sacrificial materials that are used during the manufacturing process One of our customers asked us to provide details on all (that do not form part of the final product) as well as those the chemicals being used by its suppliers. PCH visited that are part of the final product. These chemicals are used suppliers associated with the project to assess the in processes such as coating, gluing, laminating, cleaning, use of chemicals and other raw materials. We then electroplating, printing, screen-printing and painting. It’s provided the information to the customer for review. If important that all factories maintain a Material Safety Data a customer bans the use of certain chemicals, we will Sheet (MSDS) containing pertinent information such as a work with the supplier to find alternatives. material’s chemical ingredients, physical characteristics, proper handling, fire safety and emergency handling. During one visit to a supplier factory, we saw the use of n-Hexane, a highly flammable chemical that How we are addressing chemical management: is sometimes mixed with cleaning agents. It poses 1. Elimination a human health risk. After being alerted to the hazardous chemical, the factory discontinued the use 2. Substitution at concept phase of n-Hexane and instead switched to adding just water to cleaning solutions. 3. Proper ventilation Based on our findings, we conducted these 4. Establishing a safe distance between the improvement actions at supplier sites: emergency chemical and worker response, hazard communication, risk assessment and 5. Providing personal protective equipment risk control. Additionally, we continue to work with our customers to understand their needs around chemicals. In gathering chemical information from suppliers, the strength of our relationship with our suppliers is paramount. Some suppliers, particularly sub-tier, are cautious about disclosing the chemicals they use. Ideally we would like to provide training to these suppliers, but due to tight production schedules and turnover of products, this is not always possible. Developing Partnerships 62 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report “Certain suppliers are very open and share information about the materials and chemicals they use; however, transparency is often Alternative Chemicals driven by the customer brand rather than the factories they work with. Some brands set the standard and insist on transparency. Finding alternative chemicals is a challenge; however, there have In this case, they give their suppliers consistent volume and been some successes. In one example, a glue which was used orders, and suppliers respond to that. Where orders and volumes to stick two parts of a product together was found to contain are small, suppliers are less likely to be forthcoming and share 30-40 percent toluene. Toluene is known to have carcinogenic information. We continue to work to strengthen our relationships potential in humans. We raised this concern with our customer with our suppliers.” and together we sourced an alternative glue which has no known human impact and very low toxicity levels. We know this – Eileen Li, Supply Network Manager, PCH is not a perfect substitute, but the risk to workers was greatly reduced. The initial substance is also being added to our, and our customer’s, Restricted Substance List (RSL). Developing Partnerships 63 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Inventory We work with our customers to package and ship products in the most efficient way possible. There is huge potential for cost and environmental savings: how efficiently pallets are packed, how a pallet is moved across the globe, where it is stored, the cost of Management/ shipping and how the product is moved once it hits the ground. PCH’s network of warehouses and factories in Southern China gives us the ability to make products on demand, which increases efficiency Delivery and uses fewer resources by eliminating unnecessary production and waste. Our global distribution centers enable us to move products to where they are selling, fast. Efficient transport further reduces waste when we avoid shipping products to regional warehouses where they may sit for some time before being sold. Many products we work with are small, expensive electronic devices that are not suitable for ocean freight. Air freight gets these products to customers faster while potentially reducing inventory and warehousing. >> 10: average number of days inventory stayed in warehouse (2013) >> 11: average number of days inventory stayed in warehouse (2014) >> 12.3: average number of days inventory stayed in warehouse (2015) “A key metric for the health of a company should be days of inventory. Sales into the channel should not be an indicator of health because this is essentially capital stuck in the channel. Getting a product into the hands of as many consumers as possible should be the goal of all hardware companies.” – Liam Casey, Founder and CEO, PCH Developing Partnerships 64 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report “When it comes to getting a product to where it is needed, a company has two distinct choices. One, make the product, ship it to a region and hope it is sold. Two, make the product, keep it close to the factory, and pack it for sale as it sells. The second choice will generally mean reduced inventory and waste from both a cost and environmental perspective.” – Dan Stapleton, Director of Fulfillment and Logistics, PCH Where We Ship Units shipped 139M+ 100 90% of customers 80 deliver products by air 59% 60 40 33% Chen YaoFeng 20 8% 0 North America Europe Asia Goals for 2016 Customers by region We are developing a full product Life Cycle Analysis program which we plan to roll out in 2016. Developing Partnerships 65 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Factory/Supply Network p.68 Worker Safety p.71 Health and Safety in Suppliers Facilities Sunny Zhu Developing Partnerships 66 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Factory/ Supply Network The greatest sustainability impact of our entire product platform is found in factories, particularly upstream supplier factories. This is where we can drive the most impactful change. PCH works diligently to educate factory workers about health and safety precautions and to implement development programs on chemical management, fire safety and other occupational safeguards. Developing Partnerships 67 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Worker Health and safety awareness has become more important in China since the devastating Tianjin fire that killed 173 people in August 2015.14 Tianjin, a port city near Beijing, was the site of a series of explosions at a privately owned chemical warehouse. Safety The Chinese government and certain Chinese brands are focusing on safety, and more factory incidents are being reported in the news. To address worker safety, PCH-owned factories have a Social and Environmental Committee (200 people), which covers labor, environment, ethics, and health and safety management of the factory. The committee is comprised of management, production staff and engineers. Overall, 12 percent of the factory workforce participates in the committee. At our factories, we monitor potential hazards related to fire safety, chemical use, equipment safety and occupational health. Within PCH-owned factories, two work stations have been deemed hazardous by local authorities (a carton sealing station which is noisy and a chemical management work station). All 200 operators who work at these stations undergo a health assessment before being assigned and are provided training and personal protective equipment (PPE). 14. http://www.bbc.com/news/world-asia-china-33844084 Developing Partnerships 68 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Long XiaoYu Performance in PCH Factories Rest of world Metric 2014-2015 Difference 92% Quality complaints -14% Units produced per person per hour +1% China Efficiency rate13 +18% of all PCH spend is in China Greatest volume shipped in one month +3% 13. Calculated as target working hours/actual working hours. Developing Partnerships 69 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Safety Solutions Employee Safety Training Educating all employees is the key to awareness of workplace health and safety at PCH. Training and open communications empower workers to report issues in factories that otherwise might be In 2015 we increased the capabilities of a overlooked. For example, during a sustainability seminar, employees research and development in Shenzhen. Within were trained to identify chemicals and look for hazardous signs a number of days, employees working on site in factories. A few weeks later, a PCH engineering team went to a complained of headaches from paint fumes. supplier factory site and smelled chemicals but could not identify Twelve people reported feeling ill and some any chemical management procedures underway at the site. “They attended a local hospital for checkups. We understood the importance of chemical management and came back determined that the paint was not dry and the to us for advice, and as a result, personal protection equipment was site was not ventilated adequately. The symptoms put in place,” said Chris Yang, Sustainability Analyst at PCH. “This was experienced by employees were deemed “first a win for us. We need more of those sessions.” aid injuries”15 under the Occupational Safety In 2015 PCH recorded one injury to a factory worker and no injuries or and Health Administration Reporting and illness amongst corporate employees globally who work in our own and Recordkeeping requirements and so data is not our supplier facilities. The sole injury occurred when a female factory included in our overall illness records for 2015. worker was in a vehicle accident on the way to work. She missed 76 days We installed appropriate ventilation, a chemical of work and has since returned to full time employment. Her injury was management station and an eye wash station. reported to the local social security bureau. We also implemented fire safety and chemical management systems at this site. This event 2014 2015 highlights how important it is to report incidents Number of injuries 4 1 in our own and our supplier sites so that we can take corrective action and enhance overall Fatalities /occupational diseases 0 0 employee safety and health in factories. Lost days 71.5 76 12% of our factory workforce participate in a Health and Safety Committee 15. https://www.osha.gov/recordkeeping/ Developing Partnerships 70 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Health One of the biggest challenges we face is ensuring the health and safety of workers in our supplier network. Because this is a priority for PCH, we assign full-time staff to key supplier sites to help them improve and monitor their health and safety performance. and Safety Pre-production Safety Considerations in Supplier We have identified an excellent opportunity to improve supplier EHS management by engaging at the process design stage. Facilities “From the beginning, we are working to integrate systems thinking around employee health, safety and environmental factors,” said William Duffy, Engineering Director at PCH. In 2015 we began to work with select customers on Pre-Startup Safety Review (PSSR), an assessment that integrates health and safety measures before production begins. In some competitor factories, lines are up and running before sustainability and safety issues become primary concerns. The tool evaluates EHS processes prior to mass production. “This is a great start because most of our competitors don’t do this, especially when there is a tight timeline,” Duffy said. PCH is training our own staff and staff at key supplier sites to implement the pre-start safety review, which is oriented around prevention. The review gives engineers the opportunity to negotiate changes during production. “We have high expectations,” said Duffy. “Meeting the minimum requirements is not enough — we’re working to raise the bar.” Developing Partnerships 71 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Developing Partnerships 72 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Employee Health and Safety Employee health and safety management programs at supplier facilities include chemical management, fire safety, ventilation and “Employee health and safety electrical safety. Audits and daily spot checks cover emergency exits, management at suppliers can equipment safety, chemical labels and other potential hazards. be insufficient due to a lack of A challenge, said Sunny Zhu, Sustainability Program Manager at PCH, is that many of our supplier partners do not have a system to resources and training. PCH fine report potential hazards. Therefore, PCH faces difficulties obtaining reliable data on accidents, injuries and illnesses at supplier factories. tunes the internal EHS processes Because performance is tied to bonuses, suppliers may be reluctant to disclose problems. “We have a monthly check and they give us data,” at supplier factories that we Zhu said. “One supplier always says there were no injuries. We don’t partner with.” know if this is accurate. If EHS performance is not good, their bonuses will be deducted.” – Sunny Zhu, Sustainability Program Manager, PCH To help establish health and safety procedures at one supplier factory, PCH set up Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which measure how well the factory meets its targets. The intent was to fully integrate health and safety methods into the supplier’s day-to-day operations. However, Zhu said not all of the factory teams embraced the program, and they were not always aware of the availability of an internal EHS function. PCH identified over 80 corrective action items which were all subsequently remediated. “These KPIs are owned by the factory EHS team and not the other business teams,” Zhu said. “We are trying to instill an EHS culture because without that, we can’t get anywhere. We continue to push our suppliers to improve performance on health and safety.” Developing Partnerships 73 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Ink Room Supplier Safety EHS management is especially important in the electronics industry, where the life of each product is becoming shorter and production methods change frequently. There is room for An ink room was set up for a new project at a supplier improvement surrounding volatile organic compounds (VOCs) site in 2015. The room was to be used for ink mixing and used in cleaning and other processes. cleaning. The chemicals were complicated: Some were flammable with a strong, irritating odor, while others At one supplier factory, our customer EHS team found a were hazardous with a low Occupational Exposure Limit cleaning chemical that could potentially lead to asthma in (OEL). At the outset of the project, the factory team did workers. The chemical wasn’t on the restricted substance list, not conduct a deep risk assessment and installed only a but the team asked the factory to stop the cleaning action basic ventilation system. immediately. Customer EHS teams have the authority to stop the line if there is a high risk, and in this case the production When production began, workers in the ink room felt timeline was tight. “Within three hours we found another sick because of the strong odor. The workers were then chemical,” said Chris Yang, Sustainability Analyst at PCH. required to wear personal protective gear, including a respirator that was so heavy that some employees refused assignments to work in the ink room. EHS teams from PCH, the supplier and the customer worked together to develop a solution. First, suitable respirators were bought for the workers who were then trained how to use them. Next a professional ventilation supplier designed a new system with approvals from the EHS teams. As soon as the new system was installed and passed inspection, a group of ink room workers applauded with approval. Developing Partnerships 74 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Goals for 2016 Our three key goals for 2016 are to improve chemical management, fire safety and machine safety. We plan to formalize EHS guidelines, which will incorporate Key Performance Indicators for our supplier network in 2017. The guidelines will include a reporting process for all corporate employees to document work-related illnesses and injuries. We also plan to appoint a company health and safety officer in 2016. Celine Zhai / Shao Lei Developing Partnerships 75 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement p.78 Materiality Matrix p.79 How We Communicate with Stakeholders p.81 Sustainability Governance Sanno Lee / Sunny Zhu Developing Partnerships 76 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement We conducted a formal materiality study and stakeholder analysis in the first quarter of 2015 that engaged our stakeholder groups and elicited key material issues that were featured in our 2014 Sustainability Report. Full details of this study can be found in our 2014 Report. In 2015 we reviewed the outcomes of this process and found that our stakeholder list and materiality matrix was still widely valid, but we performed a few minor adjustments to some focus areas, e.g. the inclusion of new stakeholder groups (as outlined on the following pages) and enhanced coverage on health and safety in our supply network. We will continue to review our material issues on an annual basis. Developing Partnerships 77 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Materiality Matrix 4.70 Management and Governance Environmental Management Very High 6 7 1 Business integrity and ethics 17 Safe manufacturing 8 2 Transparency and accountability 18 Waste reduction through 4.60 inventory management 3 Risk and reputation management 1 19 Alternative materials/chemicals 4 Economic impacts 20 Supplier environmental 5 Internal communication performance 4.50 14 11 and knowledge transfer 12 9 21 Sustainable packaging 2 Business Practices 22 Sustainable design 4.40 23 6 Human rights protection/ External Stakeholders 15 17 prevention of child labor Suppliers 24 7 Client privacy and intellectual 23 Health and safety for all 4.30 4 25 property protection PCH employees 26 3 27 10 8 Compliance 24 Supplier audits/code of conduct 13 compliance 29 9 Non-discriminatory pay 25 Anti-corruption 4.20 10 Fair business practices 26 Supply network traceability 30 Industry Collaboration 27 Responsible procurement practices 31 18 4.10 19 20 11 Customer satisfaction 28 Grievance mechanisms 16 5 21 12 Product compliance 32 28 22 Employees/Labor Practices 13 Accurate production planning 33 4.00 29 Fair wages and working hours Product/Service Delivery 30 Training/career development opportunities High 14 Time, cost, price competitiveness 31 Diversity and equal opportunity 15 Product innovation to solve 3.90 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50 4.60 social/environmental problems 32 Recruitment and retention High Internal Stakeholders Very High 16 Accurate product and service labeling 33 Labor management relations Developing Partnerships 78 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report How We Communicate with Stakeholders AG EN AG EN AU C I E S DI AU C I E S DI CO T S NF CO T S NF E V EREN EN CE E V EREN EN CE FAC T S E-T O S FAC T S E-T O-F S LIT TL FA C LIT TL AC MI E BI R E CR D MI E BI R E CR D ME O BEN DI EFI ME O BEN DI A EFI NE A WS L E TS NE WS L ET TS PO S T E T T ER PO ST T ER R EC R S RU IT R EC ER S RU I TM SU RV M EN SU RV EN SU E Y S STA TF A IR S SU E Y S STA TF A IR S T H IN A B RO IL I T H IN A B RO I L TO WN U HGH CLI T YR EP E N O RT TO U G H IT Y R WN H CLI EP E N O RT TR A IN A L L S TS TR A IN A L L S TS W E IN G BS WE BS GI N WO I T E WO I T E Stakeholder Group Location Stakeholder Group Location RD OF -M RD OF -M OU TH OU TH PCH Factory Employees China Media and Social Media Global PCH Corporate Employees Global Prospective Workforce Global (global) Factory Landlords China PCH Office Employees China Supplier Dispatch Workers China in Factory Dispatch Agencies China Large Clients Global Peer Companies Global Medium Clients Global Academia Global Small Clients (startups) Global End-of-life Recycling Plants Asia /U.S./ Pro-social Entrepreneurs Global Europe PCH Chosen Suppliers China Industrial Service Providers China Investors and Board Global Direct Consumers Asia /U.S./ of Directors Europe Factory Owners China Other Consumers Asia /U.S./ (End-product) Europe Supplier Employees China Trade Unions China PCH Dispatch Agency Hires China Industry Associations Global Social Enterprises China Retail Stores Global (MicroBenefits) Non-governmental Global Logistics companies Global organizations and freight forwarders Prospective Customers China Agencies and consultants Global Customer Chosen Suppliers China Design associations U.S. Local Communities China / U.S./ and design consultants Ireland NEW IN 2015 Developing Partnerships 79 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Lauren Brookhart / Natalia Daniel Developing Partnerships 80 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Sustainability Governance >> The PCH Sustainability Team is a shared resource across >> Sustainability reviews are conducted on product and packaging divisions. The Team provides support in the areas of Employee across PCH platforms in the U.S. and China, including new Health and Safety (EHS), including compliance, workforce project proposals. engagement, resource efficiency and safe handling of chemicals >> The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and other materials. The Team participates in all stages: product Chief Technology Officer, Chief Operating Officer development, supplier selection, supplier development, packaging and Senior Leadership Team review all programs. and distribution. >> The PCH Audit Team conducts all China-based supplier >> PCH is governed by a Board of Directors who delegate governance qualification audits for labor, environmental and chemical and responsibility for sustainability to the PCH Senior Leadership team. management practices. >> The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) oversees sustainability >> PCH-owned factories have a Sustainability Committee with Labor, initiatives at PCH. EHS and Ethics subcommittees. >> Each program is initiated within our China-based Sustainability >> Individual offices champion CSR initiatives across the organization Team, led by the Head of Sustainability. Details are reported to including volunteering, diversity, internships and charitable giving. the CFO to ensure there is a viable business case for each project. >> Our suppliers are expected to adhere to our Supplier Code of >> Programs focus on supplier network development: EHS, worker Conduct. http://www.pchintl.com/sustainability/policies-and-codeengagement, social initiatives and industry partnerships. of-conduct/supplier-code-conduct/ Developing Partnerships 81 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Looking Ahead p.84 2016 Goals Lian Feng / Shao Lei / Zeng Lingjian Developing Partnerships 82 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Looking Ahead In 2016 we celebrate 20 years of business. We work in a dynamic industry that is witnessing shorter production cycles, increased sophistication of factories, greater demand for personalized products and non-tech industries such as fashion entering the hardware market. We will continue to expand our growth opportunities by focusing on high-end design engineering and specialized manufacturing and distribution for our diverse customer base. As consumers ask more questions about the origins of products, PCH will continue to lead the industry in product transparency when designing the full customer experience. This is the future of 2016 and beyond. Developing Partnerships 83 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 2016 Goals To date, we have set annual short-term goals as we build out our sustainability programs and fully understand priorities. As our business evolves, we plan to update long-term goals for sustainability across the company. Set long-term, cross-company Reexamine our supplier selection Appoint a company Health and Implement a global grievance sustainability goals. strategy to ready our business Safety officer in our operations mechanism as part of our for future customer needs. in China in 2016. Employee Guidelines to be rolled out in 2016/2017. Offer a full product Life Cycle Sustainability team members Formalize EHS guidelines for Analysis program to our customers. attend all project kickoff our supplier network in 2017. meetings to understand customer sustainability requirements and supplier development opportunities. Developing Partnerships 84 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Sanno Lee / Jims Zhang Developing Partnerships 85 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report About This Report p.88 p.89 Our Disclosures Reporting Guidelines p.90 p.92 Glossary GRI Index of Terms Developing Partnerships 86 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report About This Report This is our fourth annual Sustainability Report and covers the year 2015 at PCH, a privately held company. Our 2012–2014 Reports can be accessed on our website at www.pchintl.com/sustainability. The 2015 Report covers all PCH business units and entities but excludes TNS Connect (our distribution business headquartered in Dublin, Ireland) and Fab (e-commerce platform) which was acquired in 2015. This is not a Report on the financial condition of the organization. We do not disclose certain financial information, capitalization structure of the organization or details of the share capital and executive board structure of the organization in this Report or in any public forum. Mutual non-disclosure agreements prevent us from naming suppliers and customers. Many suppliers and customers do not wish to be named to protect trade secrets and maintain a competitive advantage. We respect this and are working with our partners toward a transparent future. Developing Partnerships 87 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Our sustainability reporting follows industry and sustainability standards, including the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This Report was written “in Reporting accordance” with GRI G4 guidelines at the Core level. In compiling this Report, we incorporated the principles for defining report content, namely: stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability Guidelines context, materiality and completeness. We strive to ensure the principles for defining report quality are also met, namely: balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. We have not sought independent assurance of this Report. All data in this Report is based on the best possible methodologies currently available and is aligned with recognized standards. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data is subject to inherent uncertainties because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emission factors and measurements. Our GHG emissions accounting and reporting are aligned with the GHG Protocol, and the emission factors we use are from publicly available sources such as the International Energy Agency (IEA). The reported energy usage is based on invoiced utility data, data reported by transport providers and suppliers, and data from real-time electricity meters. Monetary amounts are reported in U.S. dollars. Additional currency values are conversions based on the conversion rate on 31 December 2015, unless stated otherwise. Developing Partnerships 88 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Disclosures The information in this Report may contain forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect management’s current expectations. Although management believes such statements to be reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove correct. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and such future events could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, market or competitive conditions, success of business and operating initiatives, changes in the regulatory environment and other governmental actions and business risk management. Any forward-looking statement made in this Report relates only to events as of the date on which the statement is made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, except as required by law. Developing Partnerships 89 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Glossary Chemical: Refers to substances and chemical compositions that are additives to manufacturing process such as adhesives, paint, ink, cleaning agents and thinners. Included are chemicals that form part of the final product as well as sacrificial chemicals (those that are not of Terms part of the final product). Corporate staff: All non-operator staff who work in PCH offices. CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility. Customer: A customer of PCH or of our suppliers. Dispatch worker: Factory operators who work in PCH facilities who are hired and managed by a third-party dispatch agency. EHS: Employee Health and Safety, also referred to as Environment, Health and Safety in our industry. Employee: Any person who has an employment contract with PCH, excluding supervised workforce. Fab: An e-commerce company acquired by PCH in 2015. Facility: A factory building; one factory business might have multiple facilities. Factory: A manufacturing, logistics, fulfillment or distribution business. Some factory businesses are a collection of facility buildings. Factory office staff: All non-operator staff who work in factory offices. Joiner: Workers hired to fulfill business needs as well as those hired to replace a leaver. Developing Partnerships 90 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Key supplier: The PCH core group of suppliers in which our Raw material: any non-living matter, whether natural or manoperations team is involved in the day-to-day workings of the factory made, which combine to make customer products such as plastic for large-scale PCH projects. components, metals, leather and fabrics. LCA: Life Cycle Analysis. This is the assessment of all environmental Replacement hire: A worker hired to replace someone who has left. factors of a product’s life, from raw materials to end of use. RSL: Restricted Substance List, which includes hazardous chemicals Leaver: Any worker who leaves their employment. and raw materials and possible alternatives. Local: Refers to the relevant locality which is being discussed. Senior Leadership Team: The team of PCH Senior Executives designated by the Board of Directors to manage PCH business, Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS): A document that contains including but not limited to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief information on a material’s potential hazards (health, fire, reactivity Financial Officer. The team is also designated with responsibility and environmental) and how to work safely with a chemical product. of sustainability leadership at PCH. OECD: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Significant location of operations: Our significant operational OEL: Occupational Exposure Limit is a regulation that sets maximum headquarters are in southern China, our significant engineering exposure levels of chemicals and other hazardous materials in design operations are in San Francisco, California, U.S.; and our workplace air. corporate headquarters are in Cork, Ireland. Operator: Factory production staff (line operators, warehouse Supervised workers: All non-employees, workers hired through and logistics staff) hired by PCH or our suppliers on a full-time or dispatch agencies or contractors, consultants and occasional interns. supervised basis. Supplier: A factory not owned by PCH that supplies products, goods PPE: Personal Protective Equipment such as protective clothing, or services to PCH and our customers. helmets, goggles, or other garments or equipment designed to Vendor: All PCH suppliers, including factories, sample part suppliers, protect the wearer’s body from injury or infection. office supplies, goods and services. Production ramp: The increase in factory production and labor Worker: An individual member of the workforce. required to meet manufacturing production demand. Workforce: All those who work for PCH including our employees and PSSR: Pre-Startup Safety Review is a tool that incorporates safety our supervised workers. measures in pre-production design and processes. Developing Partnerships 91 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report GRI Index Developing Partnerships 92 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report PCH follows the GRI’s G4 guidelines, an internationallyrecognized standardized framework for disclosing economic, environmental and social performance. The 2015 report qualifies at the in accordance ‘Core’ level. General Standard Disclosures Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Strategy G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker in the Message From Liam Casey 4 and Analysis organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Organizational G4-3 Name of the Organization Our Purpose 3 Profile About PCH 9 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services What We Do 12 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Where We Operate 17 G4-6 Countries of significant operations specifically relevant Where We Operate 17 to the sustainability topics covered in the Report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Our Purpose 3 About This Report 87 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors Where We Operate 17 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Customers 36 Developing Partnerships 93 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Organizational G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization PCH in 2015 10 Profile G4-10 Workforce About Our Workforce 42 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective About Our Workforce 42 bargaining agreements All factory employees at two of our PCH-owned facilities, both office and operator staff. This is 100% of our factory workforce and 71% of our global workforce G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Suppliers 30 Our Supplier Network 32 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Message from Liam Casey 4 size, structure, or ownership About This Report 87 Acquisition of e-commerce company Fab in 2015 (sustainability data not integrated by year end) Closing of South Korea and Japan offices G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach is The precautionary approach has not been addressed by the organization specifically addressed G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and PCH is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry PCH is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact associations) and national or international advocacy https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ organizations in which the organization participates Developing Partnerships 94 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Identified G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated About This Report 87 Material Aspects financial statements or equivalent documents and The 2015 Report covers all PCH business units but excludes and Boundaries whether any of these entities are not covered in this TNS Connect (our distribution business headquartered Report in Dublin, Ireland) and Fab. (TNS and Fab were not fully integrated in our reporting process by year end.) G4-18 Explain the process for defining the Report content Our Reporting Guidelines 88 and the Aspect Boundaries and how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 77 defining Report content Materiality Matrix 78 All material aspects identified are in the materiality matrix. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 77 within the organization, entities it is material to and any Materiality Matrix 78 specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 77 outside the organization, entities it is material to and any Materiality Matrix 78 specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous Reports No restatements and the reasons G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the About This Report 87 Scope and Aspect Boundaries. No significant changes have been made from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. Developing Partnerships 95 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Stakeholder G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by How We Communicate with Stakeholders 79 Engagement the organization G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 77 whom to engage G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, How We Communicate with Stakeholders 79 including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the Report preparation process G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised This is described in each section when discussing through stakeholder engagement, and how the the material aspect. organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided Calendar year 2015 unless otherwise noted G4-29 Date of most recent previous Report November 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding Alan Cuddihy, Head of Sustainability the report or its contents sustainability@pchintl.com G4-32 Report the in accordance option the organization Our Reporting Guidelines 88 has chosen GRI Index 92 Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option Core G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Our Reporting Guidelines 88 assurance for the Report Developing Partnerships 96 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, Sustainability Governance 81 including committees of the highest governance body . Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for Sustainability Governance 81 economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an Sustainability Governance 81 executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing We do not have a formalized risk management procedure the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management across the PCH group. processes for economic, environmental and social topics G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally Sustainability Governance 81 reviews and approves the organization’s Sustainability Report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration and All factory employees receive at least the local minimum involvement of independent remuneration consultants wage as set by the Shenzhen government and are paid legal overtime rates. This is supplemented by statutory social insurance payments and ancillary benefits. Base salary for corporate employees is based on market value for the role in each particular location and includes consultation with remuneration consultants. All requisite local social insurance and tax payments are made by PCH. Developing Partnerships 97 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Ethics and G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards Sustainability Progress 26 Integrity and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and Goals for 2016 55 codes of ethics Our PCH factories provide all employees with an employee manual, which guides the factory workforce on human rights and responsibilities, labor management procedures and safety procedures. Employee Guidelines under development and is planned for release to all PCH corporate staff in 2016/17. Once finalized, the guidelines will be communicated to all corporate employees in Chinese and English. G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking PCH in 2015 10 advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters Our Little Bird Journey 47 related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or Grievances 52 advice lines Little Bird hotline is available to all factory staff. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for PCH in 2015 10 reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, Our Little Bird Journey 47 and matters related to organizational integrity, such as Grievances 52 escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Developing Partnerships 98 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Specific Standard Disclosures Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Category: Economic Material Aspect: G4-DMA Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant Our Supplier Network 32 locations of operation Local is defined as Guangdong province, China for this indicator Non GRI G4-DMA Material Aspect: Procurement PCH-1 Length of Supplier Relationships Our Supplier Network 32 Practices Non GRI G4-DMA Material Aspect: Production PCH-2 Dispatch workers as percentage of factory workforce About Our Workforce 42 Ramp Annual average = 8% Annual high = 18% in August 2015 Annual low = 0% Category: Environmental Material Aspect: G4-DMA Materials and Chemicals PCH-3 Chemicals and materials management Chemicals Management/Mapping 61 Indicator to be developed. We have not chosen an indicator for this material issues at time of reporting. We are defining and building out our health and safety capabilities. Developing Partnerships 99 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Energy G4-EN3 Energy Consumption Within The Organization Environmental Impact 20 Electricity use is for two factory facilities, one product development lab, Shenzhen operations office and San Francisco Innovation Hub (workshops and office). All other corporate offices are excluded. 2014 data refers to three factory facilities, one product development lab (opened in May 2014), Shenzhen operations office and San Francisco innovation Hub. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Water G4-EN8 Total Water Withdrawal By Source Environmental Impact 20 Water is used for domestic purposes only, is supplied by the local municipality in each jurisdiction and is not recycled by PCH after use. All data comes from bills and factory meters. Developing Partnerships 100 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Emissions G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Environmental Impact 20 (Scope 2) All emissions are a conversion calculation of our energy use (gas and electricity) (EN3). All calculations for the years 2014 and 2015 reflect local conversion rates for 2014 namely: • China: 0.918kg CO2/kWh (applicable to all facilities in Southern China), • U.S.: 0.69kg CO2/kWh (electricity) and 0.005302 metric tons CO2/therms (gas) At time of reporting, 2015 conversion rates were not published by national authorities. Emissions from purchased transport services are not available. G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Data from three supplier sites indicates annual electricity 23 use of 12,017,230 kWh (11,032 metric tons CO2). Data is received from remote energy sensors which were interrupted occasionally in 2015. One site had 8 months of data; the other two sites were in operation for 12 months. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Effluents and Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental Impact 20 Non-hazardous waste data is available for our U.S. operations only. All waste generated in our operations in China is owned by our customers and complies with the waste disposal rules of the Free Trade Zone (a Chinese government designated industrial zone). Hazardous waste data is available for our U.S. and Chinese operations only. All hazardous waste generated by our facilities is disposed of by a licensed operator in that jurisdiction. Developing Partnerships 101 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts Sustainable Packaging Design 59 of products and services Quantitative information is currently unavailable as environmental impact mitigation reviews are conducted on a case-by-case basis. Material Aspect: G4-DMA The privacy and security of our customers’ concepts, Compliance ideas and dreams are important to us. Our customers own the intellectual property (IP) of their products which we safeguard. We sign a mutual non-disclosure agreement with all customers and partners, and we have customer IP security plans in place at all of our factories. We have never had a complaint, breach or loss of customer data. G4-EN29, Total number of (and value of) complaints, legal actions, 0/$0 G4-SO7, significant fines, non-monetary sanctions for nonWe have never been fined or had any incidents of nonG4-SO8, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, compliance with regulations or laws in the jurisdictions in PR4, PR7, anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly which we operate. PR8 practices or concerning the marketing, communication, advertising, promotion, sponsorship, data protection or G4-PR9 provision or use of products or services Material Aspect: G4-DMA Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting This is estimate data only and excludes data of some of products and other goods and materials for the our larger customers who consign all shipping methods. organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Developing Partnerships 102 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Supplier Environmental, G4-EN32, Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Our Supplier Audits 33 G4-LA14, environmental, labor and human rights criteria 50% (23 of 46) Labor And Human Rights G4-HR10 Assessment G4-EN33, Significant actual and potential negative environmental, How We Manage Our Supplier Network 31 G4-LA15, labor and human rights impacts in the supply chain and Our Supplier Audits 33 G4-HR11 actions taken We consider remarks of “zero tolerance” and “immediate action” in our audits as well as an overall result of less than 60 to be significant actual and potential negative impacts for purposes of GRI Reporting. These categories will result in a failed audit. Material Aspect: G4-DMA No formal environmental grievance mechanism at PCH Environmental or in our factories Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental The information is currently unavailable. impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Developing Partnerships 103 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Category: Social Sub-category: Labor Practices and Decent Work Material Aspect: G4-DMA All of our workforce receive a written contract Employment and benefits in line with local regulations. G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and Retention 50 employee turnover by age group, gender and region Material Aspect: G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are All employees are full-time; no part-time employees Employment not provided to temporary or part-time employees, at PCH in 2015. by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental Parental Leave 43 leave, by gender Material G4-DMA Aspect: Labor/ Management G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, In the event of any change to our operations that would Relations including whether these are specified in collective significantly affect our factory employees, up to three agreements days’ notice is provided by the HR department. When any employee is no longer to be employed by our factories, they receive at least one-month notice from factory management. Developing Partnerships 104 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Occupational Health and G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Worker Safety 68 Safety management-worker health and safety committees that 12% of our factory workforce (9% of global workforce) help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Employee Safety Training 70 lost days and absenteeism, and total number of workWe do not report absentee rate. related fatalities, by region and gender First aid injuries are not included. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Worker Safety 68 related to their occupation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by Developing and Engaging People 45 gender and by employee category Information on training by gender not available Material Aspect: G4-DMA Diversity and Equal G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of About Our Workforce 42 Opportunity employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Material G4-DMA Aspect: Equal Remuneration G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women Not reported due to incomplete data for Women to men by employee category, by significant locations and Men of operation Developing Partnerships 105 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Labor And Human Rights G4-LA16, Number of grievances about labor and human rights Number of Grievances 53 Practices G4-HR12 practices filed, addressed and resolved through formal Grievance grievance mechanisms Sub-category: Human Rights Material Aspect: G4-DMA PCH does not include human rights criteria in Investment investments or joint ventures. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies PCH factory employees are trained on human rights or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that policies. We do not have any formal human rights are relevant to operations, including the percentage of policies in place for our corporate staff, nor do we provide employees trained formalized training regarding human rights. Material Aspect: G4-DMA Child, Forced or Compulsory G4-HR5, Operations and suppliers identified as having significant Audit Findings 34 labor HR6 risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Material Aspect: G4-DMA Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the All security personnel in our factories receive training organization’s human rights policies or procedures that in corporate social responsibility. In facilities that we are relevant to operations manage for our suppliers, PCH is involved in setting operational and security procedures to ensure compliance with human rights requirements and social accountability international (SA8000) standards. Management of those facilities directly oversees security staff at those locations. Developing Partnerships 106 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material Aspect: G4-DMA Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that We have not conducted a formal human rights review have been subject to human rights reviews or on our supply network, but we can generally comment impact assessments that the greatest risk of human rights abuse lies in the supplier network. Sub-category: Society Material Aspect: G4-DMA We have conducted preliminary risk assessments for Anti-Corruption corrupt practices and determined that the risk is low. G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed Audited suppliers are not assessed for corruption as part for risks related to corruption of their audit. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies We do not have any formal policies in place for and procedures PCH corporate staff like we do in our factories, nor do we provide formal training on anti-corruption, anti-competitive behavior, insider trading or conflict of interest. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 0 G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country PCH made no political contributions during 2015. and recipient/beneficiary Developing Partnerships 107 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Location in Report/ Indicator Description Page Detail/Omission Explanation Material G4-DMA We have not conducted a formal assessment of our impacts on society, but we can generally comment Aspect: Supplier that the greatest impact is in China where we have our Assessment largest operations. for Impacts on Society G4-S09 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using The PCH audit does not cover impacts on society. criteria for impacts on society Sub-category: Product Responsibility Material Aspect: G4-DMA Product and G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by For product labeling such as European Conformity (CE), Service Labeling the organization’s procedures for product and service U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or labeling information and labeling, and percentage of significant approval for a particular market, our customers instruct product and service categories subject to such us on their labeling requirements. information requirements G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Customer Satisfaction 37 Material Aspect: G4-DMA Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products We have never brought a product to market that is Communications banned in the market in which it is for sale. Developing Partnerships 108 Delivering Peace of Mind Our Purpose About PCH Partnerships People Product Factory/Supply Network Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report © copyright
