UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2015/2016 1. Introduction In its nine years of presence in telecommunications continuously invest in the environment, sports, culture, market in Serbia, Vip mobile has accomplished the education. Accepting the responsibility for our business sustainable growth in all business segments owing to its operations and their influence, we induce, through our strategic determination to focus on providing the best socially responsible operation, positive changes in the customer experience and on continuous improvement of society and contribute to improving the quality of life the network, technology and offering of the innovative in Serbia. products and services. Vip always puts its customers first, and the company is dedicated to adapt the products and services to their needs. Our objective in Vip mobile is to support the improvement of the local community, while constantly achieving better business results, which is why we 1.1. Dejan Turk director/CEO address As the youngest telecom operator in the country, we community and all of those who want to be drivers of know it is essential to be different and to introduce change and tell different stories, are always welcome changes. We know that the world is left to the young, to join us in this effort! which is why we want to show by example the Our CSR strategy in 2015/2016 has been mainly importance of responsibility towards the community in focused on our long-term projects related to support to which we live and work. Vip is the initiator of the projects higher education in Serbia, environmental protection, that make Serbia a better place to live in and through programs aimed at social integration of children with these projects we are telling a different story, the story disabilities and digital literacy programs for elderly of trust and unity. In the past nine years through our people. social responsibility programs, we helped the children We will continue with the implementation of corporate and the elderly people, influenced the development of social responsibility based on UN Global Compact culture and sports, opened and resolved a number of principles and lead other companies as a good environmental issues, and thus set up the foundation of example of permanent and stable CSR practice in the responsible, humanitarian impact in the business world. Serbian business sector. The doors of our company are always opened to the 2. Vip social responsibility 2.1. Care for employees 2.2. Responsibility towards community 2.3. Sponsorships 2.4. Responsibility towards compliance 2.1. Care for employees HR Sector 2015/2016 strategy was focused on talent management and leadership development, strengthening of corporate culture and promoting Vip mobile as a desirable employer. For our employees we provide additional benefits such as: • Voluntary health insurance • Voluntary pension insurance • Kindergarten on site at our headquarters building • Special benefits and discounts for shopping, sports, leisure 2.1.1. Basic information about Vip employees and investment in their development 2015 Woman Man Gender structure 2015 Gender structure 2016 Age structure 2015 55% 57% 50.0% 45% 43% 40.0% 40.43% 30.0% 27.53% 20.0% 16.38% 10.0% 9.93% 2.66% 1.74% 0.82% 0.51% 0.0% 0 24 25 29 30 34 35 39 40 44 45 49 50 54 55> Management share 2015 Management share 2016 Age structure 2016 49% 51% 50.0% 51% 49% 40.0% 38.9% 30.0% 28.6% 20.0% 14.0% 12.2% 10.0% 3.5% 1.1% 1.2% 0.5% 0.0% 0 24 25 29 30 34 35 39 40 44 45 49 50 54 55> 2.1.2. Managing talents, recognizing top performers, raising competencies One of the main company objectives in respect of desirable organizational culture aiming at the synergy In 2016 we implemented Flexibile&Mobile work time development of human resources is to continue the of business and organizational culture. and continued to create inspiring and stimulating development of competencies of employees, to create “CEX development program” includes a series of environment in which our employees can grow along new development programs that will ensure meeting of trainings primarily dedicated to employees who directly with the company, fulfill their potentials and be this goal and enriching programs that have been an take care of the customers, from Sales and CS sectors. passionate toward their work. integral part of Vip mobile corporate culture for years. The program is designed according to CEX strategy to Also we created and realized Leadership Journey Our goal is to create an inspiring and stimulating bring customer experience to the highest level. During program for all Managers and Team Leaders. This environment in which our employees can grow along 2016. we continued with CEX development program program include several trainings and workshops with the company, fulfill their potentials and be for Sales and CS Departments. during witch managers had an opportunity to refresh passionate toward their work. E-learning trainings were launched in 2014 and it their knowledge and hear about new trends about “Vigor Stars 2015” is a leadership development represents a virtual classroom which makes knowledge management by objectives, feedback sessions and program realized to develop leadership competencies available anytime and anyplace; it reduces training people development tools. aligned with Group Leadership Standards and retain costs and increases flexibility of course delivery. We continue raising employee’s competences trough Key Players. Over the last year, we focused on customer “Certification” is a competency and talent management functional trainings and project work. impact, strategic orientation and making decisions, and program within the Customer Service, Business and We implemented Workplace and by this we increase main accomplishments are introducing PCM individual Residential Sales Departments. The main objective internal knowledge sharing about all business aspects. sessions and Vip CEX Academy for top management. is to provide the quality of service to our customers During 2016. we realized PCM training and individual through the development of engaged and competent coaching session for new managers. employees. The program also identifies employees “Organizational Culture Development Program” is with high potential who are willing to take on more offering exclusive, advanced-level education and responsible roles. development of the way of thinking and creation of 2.1.3. Social Recruiting In 2015/2016 we continued and enhanced recruiting of job candidates via social networks in order to find hard-to-reach talents and increase the company visibility and raise awareness of Vip as employer. In order to reach these goals, we redesigned and modernized the career page of our website to make it more accessible, easier to navigate and better looking. During 2016 we redesigned our job adds to attract young professionals. Also we participate on Job Fair and few panels on Belgrade University Faculties how we attract students and promote our company. 2.2. Responsibility towards community Vip is dedicated to initiating positive changes in its environment, and, as a responsible company, it focuses its operations on improving the quality of life in Serbia. 2.2.1. Education Be a Vip Student” project exists for more than seven and a local group of Electrical Engineering Students’ atmosphere of international business environment. years and is dedicated to development of future experts European Association (EESTEC) in Belgrade. “Vip Digital Workshop for Senior Citizens” project in the field of telecommunications in Serbia. In the past was launched in July 2014 in cooperation with the eight generations more than 1000 talented students In our company we organized HR meeting where Organization for Intergenerational Cooperation 35+, from 20 faculties across Serbia have participated in around 60 professionals from HR and business were City of Belgrade pensioners’ organization and the the selection for the summer internship. Out of these discussed about issues with Millenniums generation as Third Age Movement of Serbia. 1000, 154 students were awarded and they spent two workforce. The workshops are free of charge and devised in months attending paid internship whereas 24 of them In addition to organizing students’ educational such a way for the participants to easily master using were permanently employed by Vip. internships in Vip, guest lectures given by Vip experts, the computer, Internet, social networks and various Aiming to provide support to young talents, Vip mobile and providing students with an opportunity to write digital devices in five days’ time. We continued the company has improved partnership with the Faculty research and scientific papers in cooperation cooperation in 2015. and 2016. of Organizational Science, the Faculty of Transport with mentors from Vip, last year we gave students and Traffic Engineering, the Faculty of Economics an opportunity to visit our company and feel the 2.2.2. Vip annual donation In the past eight years, Vip mobile was on New Year’s stopped at more than 15 locations in all parts of the launched with the aim to strengthen and improve the donation together with its customers donated significant country and gathered, through its programs, over situation of children with disabilities, through digital funds to support the blind and visually impaired 2,000 children. Project activities included educational literacy programs and the use of assistive technologies. persons, victims of trafficking, the children with autism, workshops with special emphasis on education in the The funds were used to purchase equipment based children with asthma and the young ones who have field of health care, personal hygiene, psychosexual on assistive technology, which was donated also to been treated for cancer. education, communication, social skills, children’s the associations and institutions throughout Serbia Funds that Vip traditionally donates for the New rights and the like. In cooperation with local Red Cross that bring together children with disabilities and Year were given, in 2015, to the SOS Children’s organizations, non-governmental organizations and their parents. Educational support caravan visited Villages Serbia Foundation for the implementation of institutions in charge of social protection, different more than 10 cities across the country to improve the “SuperBus” project. The donation which consists of part workshops have been organized, adapted to the needs situation and inclusion of children and young people of the company income from SMS traffic at the New and capacities of the children. Nine forums were held, with disabilities in the smaller communities. We believe Year’s Eve and Christmas Holidays, as well as income together with local community stakeholders, aiming to that in this way, together with our customers, we gave generated via humanitarian SMS number activated raise awareness of and point out to current difficulties a long-term contribution to solving the problem of for this purpose, were used for launching of mobile in local environment. inclusion of children with disabilities, and we were educational-creative workshop for children without In 2016. New Year’s donation was awarded to the able to further draw attention to the challenges that parental care across Serbia and children coming from Association of single parents and families of children these youngsters and their families face every day. the most vulnerable groups of population. “SuperBus” with disabilities “Blue Shell”, marking the start of a joint is a specially equipped vehicle which, in 2015, has project “Visible and Invisible Links”. This project was 2.2.3. Humanitarian SMS numbers For a number of years Vip has been enabling SMS donor activities for raising of funds for the actions of general social interest, including philanthropy. In 2015 only, Vip customers have donated more than 23 million RSD via SMS humanitarian numbers, and in 2016. more than 30 million RSD. 2.2.4. Vip Ecomotivation With constant efforts to reduce its environmental impact, public regarding the importance of preservation of the within the Ecomotivation program, schools have scored Vip undertakes numerous measures for energy savings environment. points and competed for the title of the greenest and reduction of waste and resources. In order to bring Throughout 2015/2016 Vip supported the international school Ecomotivator. Vip also supported international its environmental management system to an even higher project “Eco Schools” in order to convey its environmental program Young Ecoreporters and awarded best level, in 2015, Vip passed through certification process protection mission to the youngest population through essays, photographs and videos which pointed out the for ISO 14001 whereby it confirmed its commitment its program “Vip Ecomotivation”. Children from over 40 environmental problems and offered solutions, made to sustainable management. Through its long-lasting schools across Serbia have participated in numerous by young high school and university students. program, Vip Ecomotivation and numerous activities activities, including the eco quiz and workshops, within and outside the company, Vip contributes to recycling, marking of important environmental dates, raising awareness of its employees and of general making eco garden. By participating in the activities 2.2.5. Employee volunteer service Employees of Vip often initiate and take part in numerous volunteering activities, putting in energy, time and knowledge for the welfare of other people and the community. Every year, employees of Vip prepare New Year’s presents for children without parental care, participate in the traditional volunteering action “Our Belgrade” organized by Forum of Business Leaders of Serbia, dedicated to mentoring work with students taking educational internship in Vip, participate in voluntary blood donation campaigns, as well as in environmental actions often organized by Vip Eco Team. 2.3. Vip Sponsorships Vip’s orientation is to support young people who achieve top results and have a competitive spirit; who are eager to succeed, daring, energetic and different all features that perfectly match our brand’s character. In accordance with the corporate business strategy, we established long term sponsorships which are directed towards the young people striving for success in sports and culture. 2.3.1. Partnership with Serbian Volleyball Federation As general sponsor of the Volleyball Federation of to improving the quality of volleyball in our country. Serbia (OSS), Vip supports indoor volleyball, but in During 2015/2016 the total of 18 tournaments were 2008 Vip initiated professional tournaments in beach held throughout Serbia. Vip Beach Masters volleyball volleyball and formed Vip Beach Masters National school was organized in all host cities of the tournament, championship in beach volleyball, to popularize this which is intended for young talents under the age of attractive sport and promote talented young players. 14 years. Since its founding, more than 12,000 boys Combining competitive spirit, a good atmosphere, and girls have learned how to play volleyball through but also the beauty of this dynamic collective sport, this school. this prestigious competition gathers the best volleyball players from Serbia and the region and contributes 2.3.2. Belgrade Dance Festival In 2016 Vip mobile, as a general sponsor for the ninth created the slogan “Communication on the Move”, significant international dance performances. year in a row, proudly supported the 13th Belgrade best reflects the strength of a nine-year cooperation. Through the accompanying “Vip Talents” project, Dance Festival which gathered the contemporary To the popularization of artistic dance in Serbia, Vip Belgrade Dance Festival and Vip mobile had the dance lovers in Belgrade and Novi Sad. contributes by awarding a prize “Vip calls” to prominent youngest ballet talents enrolled into the high quality Enjoying the title of one of the most outstanding artists from the region with distinctive dancing career educational and practical workshops held by top European event, every spring Belgrade Dance Festival abroad, then journalistic award “Vip step forward”, mentors who contribute to guiding them on their way brings together the most prestigious dance companies. but also through the “Vip talents” and support to the to professional artistic dancing. As a major partner of the Belgrade Dance Festival, National Dance Foundation. Vip mobile has introduced a distinctive pattern of large Owing to this cooperation Serbia became an companies investments in Serbian culture, and jointly indispensable stopping point to a large number of 2.4. Responsibility towards Compliance Vip mobile, as member of Telekom Austria Group, of Serbia and with all business ethics principles. Vip also how we achieve them. Our business partners, complies with the highest corporate management is also fully committed to transparency in business users of our services, shareholders, public, and our standards, which are a foundation for establishing an reporting. Compliance is actively implemented and employees expect us to meet the highest standards, excellent and long-term relationship with our customers, incorporated into existing processes and controls. Right also in the sense of integrity. partners and relevant state institutions. way -Right results. Compliance awareness through Telekom Austria is listed on Vienna Stock Exchanges Code of Conduct, compliance management policies, and operates in accordance with Austria security trade regular compliance trainings to all level employees acts as well as with stock exchange regulations. Vip within Vip mobile, whistle-blower (local and group), mobile is conducting its operations in accordance Compliance Risk assessment sessions clearly shows with all laws and regulations in force in the Republic that it is important not only to achieve our goals, but
