FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 UG2 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 XXX CONTENT Franke Group Sustainability Report 2015 2 CEO Statement 3 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 4 Organizational profile 6 Report parameters 8 Governance, commitments and engagement 12 Economy 16 Environmental 24 Employer responsibility 30 Human rights 34 Social engagement 38 Product responsibility 42 Contact 1 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CONTENT CEO STATEMENT Focus on LEAN deployment as part of strategy Our Operations Strategy and LEAN Deployment Roadmap have generated significant know-how at our manufactur­ing sites to implement LEAN tools, training sessions and ef­fective monitoring processes. Both training by doing and a train-the-trainer approach achieve this. We aim to reduce complexity, increase flexibility (low lead times, low time to market, lower inventory) and secure “best in class” quality. This means identifying manufacturing technology standardization by central engineering, optimizing manufacturing, logistics and back office footprint and continuously driving our Purchasing Excellence agenda. These performances must work well Dear Stakeholders, and remain balanced, as we need to ultimately respond better to our customer and market needs. Franke had a pivotal year in 2015 with managing its core sustainability areas in a challenging global market. Progress in core sustainability topics This meant close cooperation with all business units Franke’s core sustainability topics are energy consumpand proactively pushing for high performance with the tion, CO2 emissions, waste, product quality and occuaim of boosting our market presence. Much has been pational health & safety. Franke Group improved in the achieved by further implementing our One Franke stra­ primary environmental areas of gasoline, waste water tegy. The Make It Wonderful brand promise initiatives and total waste. This report presents some of our key allowed us to effectively engage with our customers, achievements in 2015, ranging from the product awards captivating them with innovative products, services and we received in several categories, from our green solutions. Rolling out our new Franke values and reproduct the APS 300 (page 22), the Global Leadership lentlessly improving the efficiency of our Operational Team training held with IMD Business School (page 27) Excellence program, we now stand out more strongly and the ongoing Change Ambassador Program (page 29) from our competitors. I am very proud of our progress to our top-of-the-range kitchen systems products and the contributions each Franke employee makes (page 40). As we continue to grow in our core business every day. I wish to highlight a few key areas where we areas, Franke is committed to our One Franke strategy are making great strides. and improving our competitiveness. We believe in clear governance, a common HR strategy and aligned policies Accountability for over 8,500 employees living and processes. To shape the UN Global Compact, we the Franke values actively apply its principles in human rights, labor stanThe values embrace the notion of corporate sustain­ dards, the environment and anti-corruption in our operaability, as they help each employee translate our stratetions and seek opportunities to make improvements. gy and brand into concrete behaviors and actions; they are a key alignment driver and a cornerstone of how We hope you enjoy reading this report and find it useful we attract, recruit and retain talent. Our behavior makes and insightful. I am convinced that our actions in the the diffe­­rence and is firmly integrated in our perforarea of sustainability will serve us well and compliment mance manage­ment systems. Meeting and exceeding the way in which we do business. Thank you for your customer ex­pectations requires teams and individuals ongoing support on our journey to Make It Wonderful. to go the extra mile. We work hard to ensure that our leaders live our values so that they can set clear expecYours sincerely, tations for all employees and motivate their teams. Alexander Zschokke, CEO Franke Group 2 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CEO STATEMENT KEY IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES Franke Group continuously works to improve the Access to human capital (talent shortages) is a chalresource efficiency (energy, water and material), safety lenge in many countries where Franke faces a scarcity and durability of its products. Franke provides fair and of skilled employees. Franke Group has to remain safe working conditions for roughly 9,000 employees a highly attractive employer in order to attract and across the world. This implies a social responsibility for retain talented people. Driven by the Human Resources our employees and their families. strategy, the HR Roadmap outlines the top priorities linked to people management at Franke, including Franke also strives to consistently reduce the environrecruiting and onboarding, talent management and mental impact resulting from day-to-day operations, succession planning, internal promotion and sales taking into account the commercial viability and availexcellence incentives. ability of environmentally friendly technology. Customers are increasingly asking for information about sustainability aspects such as energy efficiency, Franke Group is impacted by a number of sustainability water consumption, labor standards or the hygiene of trends that either pose risks or serve as opportunities our products, services, operations or our supply chain. for our long-term business success. The most important Furthermore, there is a trend toward “green building” trends are: with the spread of labels such as LEED, which is beneAs a Swiss manufacturing company, Franke strongly ficial to our innovative, resource-efficient products and depends on the macroeconomic environment that services. influences the general business cycle and customer reactions. While Franke continuously works toward improving its competitive positioning in the global market, the Swiss National Bank’s decision to discontinue the minimum exchange rate in 2015 meant a strong and sudden gain in value. Having a significant cost base and manufacturing activities in Switzerland, this decision meant an immediate price-related erosion of the Group’s competitive position. Franke Group was able to navigate through the economic volatility by focusing on structural improvements, contingency measures and making further progress on its strategy implementation. Resulting from major quick-service customers’ scaled back plans to build new stores and remodel coupled with lower demand at Franke Foodservice Systems division and challenging business conditions in many emerging markets, restructuring activities were placed high on the agenda. Globalization and the growth of emerging economies offer new market opportunities for Franke’s products and services. However, the high cost for production and innovation in Switzerland together with increased competition in these economies requires Franke Group to foster innovation leadership, ensure the highest quality manufacturing, remain cost-efficient and to offer solutions/systems rather than single products. 3 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 KEY IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Name of the organization Markets served Franke Group The products of Franke Group are sold to various business customers such as restaurant chains, wholesalers, Brands, products and/or services kitchen studios or real estate developers through differFranke is a world-leading provider of products and ent channels. solutions for residential kitchens and bathrooms, professional foodservice, coffee preparation, and The products of Franke Group are sold in over 100 semi-/public washrooms. For more information on the countries. product range, see: ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us Franke’s portfolio consists of several strong brands. NET SALES BY REGION The portfolio, in addition to the Franke brand, includes premium, expert brands that cover specific market segments, channel and service brands. Some brands are deployed internationally, others nationally. The list of brands is available at: ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Group Structure IN CHF M IN % OF TOTAL NET SALES Franke Group also manufactures products or com­ ponents that are purchased by other companies and retailed under the purchasing companies’ brand Europe 1,119 Europe 56 names (OEM original equipment manufacturer). Americas 560 Americas 28 Asia/Oceania 157 Asia/Oceania 8 Organizational structure Africa/Middle East 159 Africa/Middle East 8 Franke Group consists of four businesses: Franke Kitchen Systems Franke Foodservice Systems Franke Water Systems Scale of the reporting organization Franke Coffee Systems Franke Group generated sales of 1,996 million Swiss francs in 2015 (2,134 million Swiss francs in 2014). For more details about the organizational structure, see: At the end of 2015, the Group had 8,658 employees ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us (8,964 employees at the end of 2014) and the total assets as at the end of 2015 stood at 1,917 million Swiss francs. Head office Franke Group (Franke Holding AG) has its head office in Employees by region are shown under the section Aarburg, Switzerland. Employer responsibility (page 25). The number of operations is listed on page 8. For more information on Ownership and legal form Franke Group, see: Franke Group (Franke Holding AG) is a private company ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Key Figures under Swiss law. It is fully owned by Artemis Holding AG (Artemis Group), which is also a private company. 4 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Significant changes regarding size, structure or ownership Countries with business operations The following transactions executed in 2015 changed Franke Group has production companies and/or Franke Group’s scope of consolidation: own representatives in 38 countries: At the beginning of January 2015, Franke Group sold Franke Real Estate Austria GmbH in Hard (Austria) Europe (22 countries) to Artemis Real Estate AG. The company was part of Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, Franke Water Systems. Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, At the end of February 2015, Franke Group acquired Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Easi-Serv Products Inc, located in Burnaby (Canada). Russia, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, The company is part of Franke Foodservice Systems Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom and was legally integrated in Franke Kindred Canada Limited. Americas (5 countries) At the end of March 2015, Franke Group sold the Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, USA Mobile Sanitary Systems activities of Franke Aquarotter GmbH, which is based in Ludwigsfelde Asia/Oceania (7 countries) (Germany) and part of Franke Water Systems. China/Hong Kong, India, Japan, Kazakhstan, At the end of October 2015, Franke Group sold the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand service business of Franke Foodservice Systems in the US. The two companies Service Solutions Group LLC Africa/Middle East (4 countries) and Franke SSG Inc. in Smyrna were wound up. Egypt, Morocco, South Africa, In early 2016, Franke Beverage systems was moved United Arab Emirates out of the Franke Group to Artemis Group; this new reporting line allows Franke Group to focus its resources on growing the core business while Artemis Group will be able to further benefit from the longterm value potential of its kegs business. Awards received The accolade of the Red Dot Design Award, the Red Dot is an internationally recognized quality label for excellent design. In 2015, the stainless steel sinks of the Franke Box and Crystal series, and the Maris Plus extractor hood won the Red Dot Award: Product Design 2015 in the Kitchen, Kitchen Furniture and Kitchen Appliances category. Franke Kitchen Systems was honored with several iF Design Awards, an internationally recognized quality seal for top-of-the-range product design. The jury bestowed the iF Design Award 2016 in the Product/ Kitchen category on the Touch FS913M and FS982M multifunctional ovens, the Mythos Plus extractor hood and the Mythos induction hob. 5 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE REPORT PARAMETERS Reporting period The sustainability topics listed below were identified as This report covers the 2015 fiscal year (January 1, 2015 most relevant by the Management Board and are central to December 31, 2015). Information from previous years in our Sustainability Report 2015: is included where deemed necessary to give the reader Products and services: innovation, quality, safety and a comprehensive picture of Franke’s sustainability impact approach and performance. Information that is not from Production: energy, CO emissions, water, waste 2 2015 is clearly marked as such. Employees: occupational health & safety, business integrity Date of the most recent previous report Franke Group’s 2014 Sustainability Report was published Other topics that are seen as important for both Franke in August, 2015. For reports from previous years, see: and our stakeholders are: customer service, supply ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Sustainability chain management, risk management, sales excellence, employee development and employee engagement, Reporting cycle as well as the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, Franke Group publishes a sustainability report which are briefly addressed in this report. every year. Publication of the next report is planned for August, 2017. Limits of the report This report covers the entire Franke Group (see pages Process for defining report content 4 and 5 for details). If only part of the company is being The GRI guidance on defining report content was followreferenced (as mentioned in an example or due to the ed to define the priorities for Franke. The basis for our availability of data), this is clearly indicated. This report sustainability reporting is a materiality analysis for the does not cover outsourced operations. identification of those aspects that are of significance for Franke and our stakeholders. The basis for stakeSpecial limitations holder selection and their key concerns are described There are no special limitations. on page 11. Joint ventures, subsidiaries, outsourced During the last evaluation of sustainability issues, operations, etc. Franke consulted over 30 external stakeholders and over Although legally still a part of Franke Group, Franke 30 internal staff from different regions and functions. Beverage Systems was calculated out of Franke Group Sustainability topics were rated according to their imporand has a new reporting line to Artemis Group, effective tance for the business success of Franke and the interest as of January, 2016 (page 5). There were no other sig­ of stakeholders. The topics were prioritized according nificant changes related to joint ventures, subsidiaries to the principle of materiality and the results discussed or outsourced operations during the period under review and verified with the Franke Group Management Board. which significantly influence reporting. 6 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 REPORT PARAMETERS Data measurement techniques and bases Changes from previous reporting periods in scope, for calculations boundary or measure Franke has been measuring non-financial data for many There were no significant changes during the reporting years. However, consolidation of non-financial data, period with regard to scope, reporting boundary or according to the GRI indicators at group level, was first measuring methods. conducted for the 2011 fiscal year. GRI Content Index For this report, financial, headcount and environmental The 2014 Franke Group Sustainability Report serves as data (energy, CO2 emissions, water, material and waste our GRI content index. We self-declare this report to GRI sources) was extracted from COGNOS. Occupational application level “B”. health & safety data was collected with a Group-wide reporting tool. Specific employee data, covering approxiThis year’s report follows the same structure as the mately 40% of the total workforce (mainly office workers), 2012 Franke Group Sustainability Report, whose GRI was also extracted from the HR tool. application level “B” was confirmed by the 2013 Global Reporting Initiative in May. Environmental and occupational health & safety data for the 2015 fiscal year was reported by all production, External assurance for the report services and sales companies. No external assurance was obtained for this report. The CO2 emissions for fossil energy (heating oil, natural gas, diesel and gasoline; Scope 1 as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) are based on emission factors from the Swiss Federal Office for the Environment. The CO2 emissions for electricity and district heat (Scope 2) were calculated with the emission factors provided by the companies. The relative environmental and occupational health & safety data at group level was calculated by dividing the absolute values by the net sales in Swiss francs. Effects of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports The key figures presented on pages 19 to 21 generally cover the years 2014 and 2015. 7 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 REPORT PARAMETERS GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Governance structure, committees under the Board Separation of the chair of the Board of Directors of Directors and executive management Franke Group has a three-tier governance structure: Thomas A. Erb, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Artemis Holding AG and Franke Holding AG, is neither a member of the Artemis Group Management nor Group Management of Artemis Holding AG (Artemis Group) of Franke Group. Four of five members of the FHO Board 4 members of Directors were members of KL Artemis. Independent members of the Board of Directors Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG (Franke Group) No member of the Board of Directors of Artemis Holding 5 members AG and its committees is involved in operative management. Four of the five members of the Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG have executive positions Management Board of Franke Holding AG (Franke Group) within Artemis Group. 4 of 5 members of the FHO Management Board were members of the Artemis Group Management Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to address recommendations to the Board of Directors Michael Pieper, owner and President/CEO of Artemis Each body has clearly defined purposes, duties and Group, is in regular dialogue with the Board of Directors responsibilities defined by the organizational regulations of Artemis Holding AG and is the Vice-Chairman of the and the terms of reference. The two boards of directors Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG. are responsible for the strategic direction of Artemis Group and Franke Group and have a number of inalienNo employee representative sits on the Board of able and non-transferable duties pursuant to the Swiss Directors. The employee representatives of the European Code of Obligations. companies meet regularly in the context of the Franke Forum (European Works Council), with a member of the The Board of Directors of Artemis Holding AG is comFranke Group Management Board. Selected concerns posed of nine members. The board has three standing can be addressed to the Board of Directors through this committees: the Audit, the Information Security and channel. the Human Resources committees. The board and the standing committees held regular meetings in 2015. Linkage between compensation and the The Artemis Group Management is composed of four organization’s performance members. For more information about the governance The remuneration of the members of the Board of Direcstructure of Artemis Group, see tors is not linked to the performance of the company. ▸ www.artemis-holding.com ▸ About us Members of the Franke Group Management Board as The Board of Directors of Franke Holding AG is comwell as other employees are incentivized by a combinaposed of five members. The board has no committees. tion of personal and financial objectives. Depending on The Franke Group Management Board is composed the function, personal objectives may be linked to social of 12 members. For more details about the governance and environmental performance. structure of Franke Group, see ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Group Structure 8 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Processes for the Board of Directors to avoid Oversight of sustainability performance by conflicts of interest the Board of Directors The organizational regulations for the Board of Directors The Finance & Audit Committee of the Board of Directors stipulate how conflicts of interests of board members of Artemis Holding AG discusses risks and opportunities are avoided. Board members are obligated to refrain that are relevant for Franke Group as part of the approval from any involvement in the handling of matters affecting of the annual risk report. either their personal interests or those of a company or person with which they have an affiliation. Evaluation of sustainability performance of the Board of Directors Qualifications of the Board of Directors with regard There is no formal process for assessing the perform­ to sustainability ance of the Board of Directors from a holistic sustainThere are no formal procedures for determining the qualifiability perspective. cations of members of the Board of Directors in social and environmental matters. Two members of the Board of DiPrecautionary approach rectors of Artemis Holding AG have significant experience The precautionary principle plays an important role for in strategic and operational sustainability management. Franke Group as both a production and a sales organization. The precautionary principle is reflected in the manGeneral principles and codes of conduct agement systems (quality, environment, occupational Different sustainability topics are addressed in policy health & safety) that are implemented at different sites. documents and a number of internal guidelines deal with In operations, the precautionary principle is implemented details related to sustainability and business ethics: by means of preventive approaches for environmental Code of Conduct: legal compliance, health & safety, protection, occupational health & safety and quality fundamental labor standards such as child/forced labor assurance. and non-discrimination, (sexual) harassment, anti-corruption, gifts and entertainment, theft, fraud and disFranke Group has a comprehensive system for honesty, disclosure of information. The Code of Conduct the control and management of all risks involved in was updated and the new version communicated to all business activities in place. In accordance with employees in 2013. The Code applies worldwide and is standard ISO 31000, corporate risk management is available on the intranet in 12 languages. In addition, at the intersection of all management systems. All an integrity line that can be used by all employees as a Franke companies are required to conduct an annual last resort to report integrity concerns in a confidential risk analysis which identifies the key risks. In addiand anonymous manner was rolled out in 2013. tion, all companies must have a clearly defined crisis Supplier Code of Conduct: minimum requirements organization, as well as a business continuity manregarding employment practices, environmental agement plan that guarantees a quick and competent protection and business integrity that must be met by response in the event of an emergency. Furthermore, all our suppliers. The Supplier Code was approved by an external service provided by International SOS acts the Franke Group Management Board in 2013. as a direct help system in any crisis situation during Group Policy: equal opportunity and diversity, employee employee travels. relations, personal safety and emergency planning, business travel, information security. Sustainability Principles: framework for improving the economic, environmental and social performance of Franke Group. UN Global Compact principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. 9 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT External agreements and initiatives Approaches to stakeholder engagement Franke Group has been an active member of the UN To date, dialogue with external stakeholders has been Global Compact since January, 2011. We also participate highly decentralized. We plan to formalize interactions in the activities of the local Global Compact network in with representatives of relevant stakeholder groups Switzerland. in the future. The newly established central purchasing ▸ www.unglobalcompact.org department is responsible for coordinating and stand­ardizing supplier management. Through the voluntary application of the Global Reporting Initiative’s Reporting Guidelines (GRI G3.1), we aim to Response to key topics and concerns of stakeholders make a contribution toward ensuring transparency and Sustainability topics are increasingly at the heart of comparability in sustainability reporting. many discussions with both internal and external stakeholders. The key topics and concerns that were raised Memberships in associations and organizations include: Franke Group and its subsidiary companies are active in Resource and energy efficiency of our products and a wide range of industry associations and initiatives in services: we conduct eco design workshops to better various countries. Many of these organizations deal with understand the impact of our products along their sustainability topics, e. g. define best practice standards lifecycle. We are also working on better highlighting or develop product labels, including but not limited to: the topics that matter in interactions with customers, U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), an organization as well as in labeling our products. committed to a sustainable future through cost-effi­cient Guidance on how products from Franke Group help and energy-saving buildings. USGBC is the owner of meet building standards: we have applied the criteria the LEED building standard. of the LEED and Minergie building standards to ▸ www.usgbc.org some of our products in order to identify which prodEuropean Committee of Domestic Equipment Manuucts are best for complying with these standards. facturers (CECED), a business association that repAchieving top performance, social and environmental resents the household appliance industry in Europe. standards through systematic management of oper▸ www.ceced.eu ational safety, reliability, efficiency and overall cost Oebu, a Swiss association and think tank for sustainreductions through the Group-wide Operational able business. Excellence program. A Central Purchasing function ▸ www.oebu.ch was established in 2013 with the aim to better coordinate and standardize supplier management. As in For a list of significant memberships, see: 2014, the Operational Excellence program contributed ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Sustainability ▸ to improving the Group’s cost competitiveness. Major Commitment initiatives in the Footprint Optimization workstream included the relocation of certain sink production Relevant stakeholder groups activities to low-cost locations within the Group. At Franke Group believes the following stakeholder groups year-end, Franke Water Systems closed its production to be relevant: activities in the UK and is scheduled to shift them to Customers and consumers Franke Foodservice Systems Poland. Additionally, the  Employees Franke Group Management Board-approved Supplier Suppliers and business partners Code of Conduct defines minimum requirements Local communities, media, authorities, regulators regarding employment practices, environmental proPotential future employees tection and business integrity that must be met by  Owner all our suppliers. Basis for selecting stakeholders Franke Group is aware that its business interacts with various stakeholder groups. The above stakeholders have been identified as important for systematic stakeholder dialogue, as they fulfill at least one of two criteria: either the stakeholder group exerts a strong influence on the economic, environmental or social performance of Franke, and/or the stakeholder group is strongly affected by the economic, environmental or social performance of Franke. 10 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Engagement of stakeholders in 2015 took place as follows Customer insights: structured interSuppliers and business partners CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS views with customers and end-coninitial contact as part of the supAND AND CONSUMERS sumers as well as online panels and BUSINESS plier pre-screening and evaluation focus groups in various countries PARTNERS process, mainly on issues related to are conducted by professional serquality and lead time. vice providers and our new customer insights department in order to Regular discussions between buyers evaluate the attractiveness of our products and services and suppliers, both on site and in the context of audits. and to better understand their needs. Customer contacts: around 350 Franke service techConsultation with and inclusion of LOCAL nicians working in the field are in day-to-day contact the neighbors of produc­tion sites in COMMUNITIES, with kitchen studios, architects, restaurant owners, real AUTHORITIES, larger construction projects. estate developers, etc. Our key account managers are MEDIA, dedicated to large customers in order to better serve REGULATORS Outsourcing of work such as assemtheir needs and meet their expectations. bling and packaging of products to institutions that provide home and Training: with the launch of Franke Stars, Franke’s new work for disabled adults by different Franke companies. online training platform, customer training has become more attractive and more structured. The platform will Open days at various production sites. be further rolled out to all key markets in 2016. In 2015, Franke established the Marketing Academy in close Participation in technical standard setting bodies. collaboration with University of St. Gallen, during which the Category and Product managers from all divisions are trained in value proposition, customer insights and Career days: participation in recruitPOTENTIAL innovation processes. In January 2015, the entire Global ment days at universities. FUTURE Leadership team (85 most senior leaders) participated EMPLOYEES in a one-week training at IMD, a top business school in The Careers section on the corpoSwitzerland (read more on page 27). rate website was updated in 2015 to better position Franke as an atTrade shows: Franke businesses are present at leading tractive employer for professionals, trade shows in many countries in order to display new students and graduates, as well as apprentices. Further products and foster customer relations. updates are planned in the course of 2016. A central Marketing and social media approach ensures alignment across all online platforms and continues to be Franke Forum: annual meeting of regulated and reviewed in terms of content and further EMPLOYEES the employee representatives of the expansion. European companies with a member of the Franke Group Management Presentation of case studies at universities and support Board. of university projects. Consultation of the various works councils at plant level by the local Human Resources Since the owner of Franke Group OWNER organization and/or local management. is the CEO/President of Artemis Group (holding company Communication through internal channels such as the of Franke Group), he is well-inCEO letter, employee magazine or intranet. formed and consulted on major strategic decisions. Employees attend an introductory program when joining the company. Engagement opportunities and employee participation at plant level (for appraisal process, see page 27). 11 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT Management approach KEY FIGURES The economic performance, market presence and IN CHF M 2015 2014 DIFR indirect economic impact of Franke Group are under the strategic control of the Board of Directors and the operational management of the Franke Group ManageNet sales 1,995.7 2,133.8 –6.5% ment Board. Organic growth* 1.6% 3.8% –2.2% EBIT 170.7 135.4 26.1% The strategies of Franke Group and its divisions are Investments 70.2 87.4 –19.7% regularly reviewed and revised if required, taking into Average headcount 8,986 9,148 –1.8% account the economic performance, market situation * Percentage points and other factors. Economic performance NET SALES BY DIVISION Relevant indicators on Franke Group’s generation and distribution of economic value in 2015 are presented at: ▸ www.franke.com ▸ About us ▸ Key Figures Risks and opportunities due to climate change Climate change is a strong driver for energy and water efficiency. The need to use resources more wisely in the IN CHF M future will increase demand for products that use less energy and/or water along their lifecycle. Franke is confident that our innovative products meet the requireFranke Kitchen Systems 939.1 ments of customers in this regard. Franke Foodservice Systems 525.4 Franke Water Systems 241.6 Based on the annual risk analysis, we believe that the Franke Coffee Systems 180.9 exposure of Franke Group to the risks of climate change Franke Beverage Systems 118.5 (e.g. natural perils for production plants or transportaOther Activities 22.6 tion) is moderate. What is more, there are currently no specific CO2 regulations such as emission caps. However, Franke is aware that rising energy prices are directly NET SALES BY REGION linked to production costs. This is why Franke intends to further reduce energy consumption in the future. IN % Europe 56 Americas 28 Asia/Oceania 8 Africa/Middle East 8 13 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ECONOMY OVERCOMING A CHALLENGING BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Franke Group achieved organic growth of 1.6 percent last year – and is well positioned for a successful 2016. The unexpected shift of focus on restructuring in reportfolio of coffee machines, also including capsules, sponse to the challenges that dominated 2015 from the and the launch of the kitchen system Frames by Franke beginning of the year strengthened the foundations together with several new product lines in the various of the Group further. Together with the growing bene­ divisions will boost sales growth. In addition, a new fits from the Operational Excellence program and the global initiative will focus on Sales Excellence in 2016. implementation of the One Franke strategy, the Group’s cost position was improved. An enhanced brand image Here are some highlights of Franke’s business activities through the Make It Wonderful campaign, a rejuvenated that helped bring Make It Wonderful to life in 2015: 1 Franke Kitchen Systems won the contract 4 In 2015, KWC developed the KWC ZOE 8 After a successful pilot in Switzerland, to equip the shopping center and the kitchens touch light PRO, a futuristic looking tap Starbucks On the Go was launched in 2015 of the 308 apartments in the newly built that is controlled using smart technology. in various European countries. The unique One Tower in Ankara. For the presti­gious sky­It can be operated intuitively with a light self-service beverages concept, which Starscraper, which stands in the center of the touch and programmed to individual needs. bucks offers together with Selecta, uses the distinguished government district of Turkey’s The tap was recently presented at the Swissintuitive FM 850 of Franke Coffee Systems, capital, the division supplied products of bau trade fair in Switzerland, where it so that everybody can mix their original the Crystal line, kitchen worktops and decoattracted great attention. Starbucks favorite drink. In 2016, Starbucks ration elements made from acrylic. On the Go corners are to be installed at 100 5 Franke has supplied 50 petrol stations Valora kiosks in Switzerland and at numer2 Franke Foodservice Systems supplied with more than 200 toilets, 300 washbasins, ous sites in the Middle East. Burger King in the US with 1,500 Forced-Air urinals and taps so far. More than 200 new Fry Stations that extend the holding time of Adnoc petrol stations will be built by 2017 in 9 Developed in 2015, Franke Coffee SysFrench fries without impacting food quality. the United Arab Emirates. tems’ A800 is equipped with FoamMasterTM An order of 900 more units has already been technol­ogy in series production and will be placed by Burger King. 6 In the United Arab Emirates, Franke Water available in 2016. The 10-inch color touch Systems equipped the hotel and villas of screen is easy to operate and the new coffee 3 In cooperation with McDonald’s, Franke the newly built residential district Jumeirah machine convinces customers with its Foodservice Systems developed an eggPark in Dubai with more than 5,000 bathflexibility to combine various accessories cooking work station, implemented by room accessories and taps and supplied anin a simple way. McDonald’s for its nationwide All Day Breakother 420 sinks and kitchen taps. fast project in the US. Franke has produced egg-cooking stations for 3,200 res­taurants 7 Franke Coffee Systems is equipping the and supplied the equipment package, includpetrol stations of the Polish ORLEN Group. ing specialized accessories, to more than Out of the 415 coffee machines that are cur7,500 restaurants. rently in use, 253 units have been delivered in 2015. The success story is continuing in 2016 with an expected delivery of 600 further machines to Poland, the Czech Republic and Germany. 14 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ECONOMY 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 15 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ECONOMY Management approach Materials used by weight or volume No production is possible without the consumption of Franke Group uses a wide range of materials of different resources or the generation of waste. Since Franke quantity and quality. The most important materials that was established over 100 years ago, many individual we use in our production are metals (mainly stainless initiatives related to environmental protection have been steel), plastics and cardboard as well as semi-finished launched, triggered by legislation, stakeholder concern and finished products. We have just started to collect or cost reduction. The activities of Franke Group have data for materials and are currently not in a position to an impact along the value chain. In order to bundle our report details.* resources, it was decided to focus on segments of the value chain that we can strongly influence. We will gear Percentage of materials used that are recycled product development and innovation toward resource input materials efficiency (with a focus on material, energy, water and Chrome-nickel stainless steel, the main component of waste). And we will invest in environmentally friendly many of our products, is made of roughly 80% recycled production processes. In the long run, however, we material. Cardboard that we use for packaging mainly intend to also reduce the environmental footprint of our stems from recycled content (estimated 90% of total logistics and transportation. cardboard use). We estimate that the share of recycled material of the total input materials is about 25%.* Franke Group strives to consistently reduce the environmental impact of its operations, taking into account the Direct energy consumption commercial viability and the availability of environmenFranke Group generally uses externally purchased entally friendly technology. A number of measures ensure ergy. The direct energy carriers (Scope 1) include extra that our environmental footprint is reduced: light heating oil, natural gas, as well as fuels (i. e. diesel Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is and gasoline). Consumption of natural gas increased the minimum requirement for all Franke operations. by 1.5% (5.78 million m3 in 2015 compared to 5.69 milAll production companies are required to implement lion m3 in 2014). Consumption of extra light heating oil and certify environmental management systems in increased by 63.2% (7,438,092 liters in 2015 compared accordance with the standard ISO 14001. By the end to 4,557,556 liters in 2014), mainly due to the now of 2015, 29 out of all 39 production companies were integrated figures from the plant in Zilina, Slovakia. certified according to ISO 14001. Franke-owned vehicles consumed 325,131 million liters Good practices are exchanged across Franke busiof gasoline and 1.74 million liters of diesel in 2015 nesses to learn from examples that have shown good (down from 1.92 million liters of gasoline and 1.76 milresults (e. g. recycling of heat from presses or server lion liters of diesel in 2013). rooms, substitution of materials, closed water loops in production processes). Comparison to previous years is limited because the Both the availability and quality of environmental data Service Solution Group with many service cars is no have improved since it was first consolidated at Group longer part of the Franke Group. Total direct energy conlevel in 2012. The monitoring of the environmental sumption was 496 TJ in 2015 (down from 519 TJ in 2014). data allows checking progress over time and defining Direct energy consumption in relation to net sales additional improvement measures. (TJ per million Swiss francs, excluding fuel) was 37.4% lower in 2015 than in 2014. 17 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL Indirect energy consumption Water consumption Electricity is the most significant form of indirect Franke Group uses mainly fresh water from the public energy (Scope 2) consumed by Franke Group. Three water system and some water from wells. The consumpsites in Europe also use district heat. Consumption tion of fresh water decreased by 3.2% in 2015 (515,509 of electricity increased by 7.2% (117.6 GWh or 424 TJ in m3 in 2015 compared to 532,442 m3 in 2014). The main 2015 compared to 109.7 GWh or 395 TJ in 2014). Even reasons are that larger plants in China and USA reported though comparison with previous years is limited due lower water consumptions for 2015. to a change in the data measurement technique, many companies reported lower electricity consumptions Water consumption in relation to net sales (m3 per milfor 2015. The electricity consumption in relation to net lion Swiss francs) was 3.5% higher in 2015 than in 2014 sales (MWh per million Swiss francs) was 37.4% lower and 19.7% lower than in 2013. in 2015 than in 2014, and 47.4% higher than in 2013. Sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency The water consumption of our production plants does improvements not place a significant burden on water sources as It is not possible to quantify the overall energy savings defined in the GRI guidelines. of conservation measures such as: Sustainable buildings; Greenhouse gas emissions Modernization, reduction or downsizing of machinery In absolute terms, CO2 emissions (Scopes 1 and 2), insuch as presses, pumps and compressors; creased by 15.1% (80,179 metric tons in 2015 compared Improved lighting in buildings with energy-saving bulbs to 69,675 metric tons in 2014). In relation to net sales (e. g. LED), partitioning, motion sensors and daylight (tons of CO2 per million Swiss francs), CO2 emissions dimmers; in 2015 increased by 23% in 2014 and by 21.6% comProcess improvements such as a lower temperature in pared to 2013. At 61,800 metric tons (77.1% of total CO2 the washing process; emissions), electricity consumption is by far the largest Binding CO limits have been in force since 2012 for source of CO2. 2 the purchase of company-owned cars and service vans. The limits also reduce fuel consumption and thus Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions reduce the operating costs of our fleet. Our approach to curbing CO2 emissions is twofold: 1. Save energy and increase energy efficiency: some Systematic energy management has been expanded measures are listed on page 19. further across various Franke sites. Software for online 2. Switch to renewable or low-carbon energy sources: and real time monitoring of energy consumption and the the building standard of Franke Group promotes installation of additional metering points increase transthe use of renewable energy sources, heat pumps, parency of energy flows and ultimately allow defining recycled heat from production processes and district additional improvement measures. heating on availability. Energy-efficient products and services Total water discharge The biggest environmental contribution of our products Franke Group treats domestic wastewater and process lies in the efficient use of energy and (hot) water, which wastewater. In 2015, 218,727 m3 of wastewater was disindirectly saves energy. Since 2012, we have been charged into a communal waste water treatment plant conducting Eco design workshops to further reduce the (42% of total wastewater), and 215,425 m3 (50%) was environmental footprint of our products and services pretreated and discharged into surface or subsurface along their lifecycles. waters. A small quantity of wastewater was disposed by professional third-party companies. Franke Group does not engage in the unplanned discharge of wastewater. Total weight of waste In 2015, 19,357 tons of non-hazardous waste including metal scrap and 2,900 tons of hazardous waste were generated. Of the total waste, around 20,098 tons (81.2%) were reused or recycled. Total waste in relation to net sales (tons of waste per million Swiss francs) was 8.0% higher in 2015 than in 2014 and 0.7% lower than in 2013. 18 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL Significant spills of chemicals A Group-wide program was launched which conducted There were no significant spills of chemicals in 2015. energy analyses in larger plants, further moving to the plants in Bad Säckingen, Germany, Peschiera, Italy Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of and Berbentina, Italy. The analyses focused on the products and services flows of different energy types in order to implement Franke Group aims to proactively adapt to rising customcorrective actions to avoid consumption or reduce er expectations, regulatory changes, emerging product quantity. labels or buildings standards. At the same time, environmental risks and impacts of our products and services – Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with material, energy and water and the generation of waste environmental laws and regulations – will be reduced. In 2015, we continued to apply the No significant fines or non-monetary penalties were eco design approach to existing product groups or at a imposed in 2015. product’s early development stage. Eco design workshops help us better understand our key priorities and * This information covers the requirements of the GRI indicator partially. ultimately improve our products and services. Examples from our product range that help to reduce the environmental impact include: New energy management system for Franke Kaffee­ maschinen AG to optimize energy consumption and avoid energy peaks. Different optimizing operations in larger plants. Implementation of a new energy management program for Franke Aquarotter in Germany. ENERGY CONSUMPTION (ABSOLUTE) UNIT 2015 DIFR 2014/2015 2014 2013 Electricity MWh 117,600 7.2% 109,680 106,560 Heating oil extra light Liters 7,438 63.2 4,558 4,738 Natural gas m3 5,783 1.5% 5,697 6,398 Subtotal excluding fuel GJ 423,834 7.2% 395,216 384,016 Gasoline Liters 325,131 –83.1% 1,922,323 370,354 Diesel Liters 1,740,100 –0.9% 1,755,251 1,091,858 Total GJ 496,413 –4.4% 581,844 434,608 ENERGY CONSUMPTION (RELATIVE TO NET SALES) UNIT 2015 DIFR 2014/2015 2014 2013 Electricity MWh/m CHF 58.9 14.6% 51.5 51.5 Heating oil extra light Liters/m CHF 3.7 74.5% 2.1 2.3 Natural gas m3/m CHF 2.9 8.5% 2.7 3.1 Fuel Liters/m CHF 1,034.7 –40% 1,723.5 706.5 Total GJ/m CHF 249 2.2% 243 210 19 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL CO2 EMISSIONS UNIT 2015 DIFR 2014/2015 2014 2013 Scope 1 (from fuels and combustibles) Metric tons 18,379 –17.7% 22,345 22,773 Scope 2 (from electricity and district heat) Metric tons 61,800 –30.6% 47,330 45,586 Absolute CO2 emissions Metric tons 80,179 15.1% 69,675 68,359 Relative CO2 emissions Mt/m CHF 40 23.0% 33 33 WATER AND WASTE WATER UNIT 2015 DIFR 2014/2015 2014 2013 Fresh water consumption m3 515,509 –3.2% 532,442 665,891 Relative water consumes m3/m CHF 258 3.5% 250 322 Waste water m3 434,151 –11.6% 491,126 612,562 Relative waste water m3/m CHF 218 –5.5% 230 296 WASTE UNIT 2015 DIFR 2014/2015 2014 2013 Non-hazardous waste Metric tons 19,357 –24.4% 25,613 20,961 Hazardous waste Metric tons 2,900 70.5% 1,701 2,646 Total waste Metric tons 22,257 –18.5% 27,314 23,239 Relative waste Mt/m CHF 11.2 –12.9% 12.8 11.2 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS UNIT 2015 DIFR 2014/2015 2014 2013 Production companies certified in accordance with ISO 14001 Companies 29 16% 25 21 20 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (ABSOLUTE) CO2 EMISSIONS IN GIGAJOULES (GJ) IN METRIC TONS (MT) 600 90,000 80,000 500 70,000 60,000 400 50,000 40,000 300 30,000 20,000 200 10,000 0 100 2013 2014 2015 0 Scope 1 (from combustibles & fuels) 2013 2014 2015 Scope 2 (from electricity & district heat) Diesel Gasoline Natural gas Heating oil extra light Electricity 21 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL FRANKE DELIVERS SOLUTIONS FOR THE GLOBAL FOOD WASTE PROBLEM With the latest storage technology from Franke, foods can be kept fresh for twice as long. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization of system also prevents the spread of ethylene, a plant the United Nations, about one third of food produced in hormone that accelerates ripening. As a result, fruits the world goes to waste every year. Food loss and waste and vegetables retain their color, texture and taste needlessly drains resources, water, land, energy, and and have twice the shelf life compared to those in re­ labor, among other factors. In the foodservice industry, frigeration units without the APS 300. the most frequent culprits are consumers who prepare too much or do not consume products quickly enough, Test customers have confirmed the impressive results leading to food spoiling during storage. Targeting this of the product, including Robert Picardi, head chef at problem, Franke’s Air Purification System APS 300, develPrezza, a fine-dining Italian restaurant in Boston. oped in 2015, is revolutionizing food refrigeration. This “We make fresh pasta every day. In the past, we had innovative technology purifies the air in walk-in refriger­ to throw out any surplus pasta after two to three days ation units and doubles the shelf life of fresh food, due to odors and bacteria. Now it remains fresh for creating a truly sustainable solution. a whole week longer.” Thankfully, the APS 300 makes great progress towards the trend “green and clean”, The APS 300 purifies with ozone and UV light, cleaning promoting the use of fresh and healthy foods while the air that is circulated within the temperature-consanitizing and keeping work areas clean without the use trolled rooms. Besides reducing bacteria and fungi, the of extra chemicals. 22 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL ECO3 ICE: A UNIQUE, SYNTHETIC DIAMOND-BASED TECHNOLOGY TO TREAT ICE MACHINES The revolutionary antimicrobial ice protection system makes it easy to keep ice machines cleaner and more hygienic. Franke Foodservice Systems also relaunched the awardVarious sanitizing systems have been tried, but few have winning EcO3 Ice. The invention is poised to clean up been completely effective – until EcO3 Ice came along. one of the restaurant industry’s most vexing problems. This novel, compact device creates a water-borne ozone It has long been one of the “dirty little secrets” of the (O3) solution from the plain water supplied to the ice restaurant business that ice-making machines are very machine. It continuously sanitizes all working areas of difficult and time consuming to keep clean. Their dark, not only the ice machine, but also its related ice storage damp interiors are, in fact, “perfect” breeding grounds bins and dispensers. The result: substantial savings on for microbes of many kinds. That’s especially true if the cost to clean and maintain ice machines, and cleaner, dough for freshly baked bread or pizza is prepared nearsafer ice in customers’ beverages. For most restaurants, by, launching yeast into the air and into ice machines, the reasonably priced solution pays for itself with cost where it can multiply at an alarming rate. Staying ahead savings in less than a year. of the germs requires frequent machine teardown and cleaning, which is expensive and disruptive. No wonder EcO3 Ice is promoted to leading foodservice chains, as that many operators fall behind, putting cleanliness well as companies that sell, lease and maintain ice and food safety at risk. Occasional food illness outbreaks machines. For them, the “secret” is out: there’s a new have been directly attributed to contaminated ice. way to solve the ice machine problem once and for all. 23 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENTAL Management approach HEADCOUNT BY REGION Responsibility for labor practices at Franke Group lies with the Chief Human Resources Officer who reports directly to the CEO of Franke Group. Furthermore, the HR Committee of the Board of Directors supervises HR-related activities. Franke’s Vision is geared toward profitable growth and leveraging market opportunities. At Franke, Human Resources acts as a strategic partner to the business, providing sustainable competitive Europe 60% advantages to the organization. The Human Resources Americas 15% strategy and Roadmap both contribute to this vision. Asia/Oceania 17% By way of guidance, the global human resources teams Africa/Middle East 8% follow a clear direction going forward, with Corporate HR ensuring alignment; knowledge and best practices are regularly exchanged in order to gain a better understandand development opportunities. In 2015, a new coming of how colleagues can interact most effectively with petency appraisal process was rolled out that is closely each other, improving collaboration across our global linked to the Franke values and fosters open commudivisions and regions. The Make It Wonderful brand nication and bilateral feedback. Personal commitment promise also serves as an internal promise for employis honored by rewarding performance and offering ees to continuously deliver better solutions, be actively challenging careers with international scope. involved and take the right decisions to effectively remain customer-driven. The Franke values of Enable People, Foster Teamwork, Act Entrepreneurial, Deliver Solutions and Be AccountThe different human resources (HR) functions at Franke able are lived through the actions of every employee; support the entire employee lifecycle, from recruiting, leadership is expected to walk the talk and create an performing and developing to succession planning. environment where employees feel inspired to give their Employees are trained, developed, and promoted from best, and contribute to developing new ideas. The goal of within; Franke aims for a 70% internal promotion rate. the Franke Group Management Board is that all producSteered by Corporate Human Resources, the main driver tion companies implement and certify an occupational for employee development within the company is the health & safety management system (OHSAS 18001). By Franke Academy, an advanced training platform focusing the end of 2015, 27 out of 39 production companies were on the three key areas of leadership, knowledge, and certified according to the standard OHSAS 18001. behavior. It supports all employees and executives in obtaining the necessary tools and targeted knowledge, Franke places strong emphasis on health & safety in all thereby building high-performing teams that are companies. Read an example of this key priority from champions in their core disciplines. See page 26 and 27 Franke Kindred Canada, a company that is leading the way for more information about the Franke Academy. in safety and was recently honored for their achievements (see section Human Rights on page 30). Franke conducts Franke employees’ personal and professional goals are business in line with high ethical and moral standards. The supported through regular feedback, learning programs Code of Conduct and internal policies define our business WORKFORCE IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2015 2014 % OF TOTAL 2015 DIFFERENCE Europe 5,189 5,102 59.9% 1.7% Thereof Switzerland 1,078 1,079 12.5% -0.1% Americas 1,312 1,602 15.2% -18.1% Asia/Oceania 1,507 1,553 17.4% -3.0% Africa/Middle East 650 707 7.5% -8.1% Total 8,658 8,964 100% -3.4% Permanent employees 7,741 8,363 89.4% -7.4% Temporary employees 708 407 8.2% 74.0% Apprentices 209 194 2.4% 7.7% Total 8,658 8,964 100% -3.4% 25 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITY TURNOVER RATE 2015 Total workforce At the end of 2015, Franke Group employed 8,658 people worldwide, which is 306 FTEs (full time equivalents) less than in 2014. Mainly due to business restructuring in the US (including the divestiture of Service Solutions Group [SSG]), but also in other regions, the number of FTEs were reduced in these areas. In addition, a hiring freeze in some countries also contributed to the reduction. Europe 8% Americas 6% Employee turnover rate Asia/Oceania 20% The average employee turnover rate (of permanent emAfrica/Middle East 19% ployees) was 11% (13% in 2014). The figures below show Total 11% the number of permanent leaving employees in 2015 and the turnover rate by regions. TURNOVER RATE 2014 Compensation & Benefits Franke Group essentially grants the same benefits to fulltime and part-time employees. However, employees with temporary contracts are not always entitled to the same benefits as permanent employees. Franke Group bases its employee benefits on country-specific standards. Employees covered by collective bargaining Europe 9% agreements Americas 15% We estimate that around half of the total workforce is Asia/Oceania 24% currently covered by collective agreements (e. g. colAfrica/Middle East 10% lective labor agreements, wage agreements). In Austria, Total 13% France, Germany, Italy and Switzerland, over 90% of employees are governed by a collective labor or wage agreement. There are no collective agreements with PERMANENT LEAVING EMPLOYEES IN 2015 employees in the US and China (19% of total workforce). Notice periods regarding operational changes Apart from country-specific obligations (e. g. statutory requirements or collective agreements), there are no formal rules as to when and how often employees are to be informed. In cases of major structural changes, Franke Group makes every effort to involve the employees at an IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS early stage. Communication to employees takes place by means of corporate messages, intranet and the annual Europe 360 meeting of the Franke Forum (European Works Council). Americas 69 Asia/Oceania 281 Accidents, injuries, fatalities Africa/Middle East 118 The lost day rate (LDR, lost days per 100 employees) Total 850 was 159 in 2015 (down from 172 in 2014). The LDR is calculated as days lost due to occupational accidents or diseases (11,409 lost working days in 2015), divided by principles and serve as an authoritative source of guidthe working hours (14.4 million hours in 2014), multiplied ance in various topics including occupational health & by 200,000 (50 working weeks at 40 hours per 100 em­ safety, (sexual) harassment, non-discrimination, equal ployees). The Group-wide absenteeism rate was 2.8% in opportunity and diversity, employee relations and comp2015 (3.0% in 2014). More detailed data on health & safeliance with fundamental labor standards. The SpeakUp@ ty is presented on page 27. No fatal accident was re­ Franke integrity line, launched in 2013, can be used by corded in 2015 (same for 2014 and 2013). all employees as a last resort to report integrity concerns in a confidential and anonymous manner. Offered in 26 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning languages, it serves as an important tool and contributes Franke is a company built on ideas. It is a place where to the upholding of high compliance standards. ideas are nurtured and grow into innovative products 26 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITY DIVERSITY: FEMALE EMPLOYEES IN FULL TIME EQUIVALENTS 2015 % OF TOTAL 2015 2014 % OF TOTAL 2014 Franke Group Management Board 0 0% 0 0% Senior Management 2 1% 3 4% Employees (mainly office staff) 940 31% 1,202 33% Total office staff 942 31% 1,205 33% OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY 2015 DIFFERENCE 2014 2013 2014/2015 Lost days due to occupational accidents or diseases 11,409 –11% 12,859 12,120 Lost day rate (LDR)* 159 –8% 172 153 LDR per net sales (per million Swiss francs) 0.08 –1.2% 0.08 0.07 Number of injuries 202 NA NA NA Fatal accidents 0 0% 0 0 Production companies certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001 27 35% 20 15 * Lost day rate (LDR) = Lost days per performed total working hours times 200,000 hours (50 working weeks at 40 hours per 100 employees). By using this factor, the resulting rate is related to the number of employees, not the number of hours. and services that make the everyday wonderful. Enabling practices, thereby enabling employees in a way that is people is a key driver for Franke’s success. Employees tailored to subject-specific needs. are developed at every level and career stage which allows Franke to advance as a company. Learning experiEmployees receiving performance and career ences are global, local, personal and, above all, transfordevelopment reviews mational. A broad range of training and learning opportuFranke Group supports the personal and professional nities are offered as orchestrated around the business’s development of individual employees. Open dialogues key challenges and focus areas, delivered in a unique way between employee and manager are strongly encourthat is engaging, inspiring, and action-oriented. aged and provide opportunities to give and receive regular feedback. 2015 was a year of transition as Franke Besides the CAMP initiative, a unique one-week learning switched to a new HRIS system and implemented a speexperience at IMD Business School in Lausanne was cific tool that manages the Management Incentive Plan held in 2015 for the entire Global Leadership Team (GLT) and Competency Appraisal processes. With the new tool, and selected rising leaders which was called the Global the entire employee lifecycle within Franke is managed Leadership Team Development Program (GLTP). A cusand information can be accurately maintained. During tomized program pinpointing Franke’s business needs the ongoing rollout process and by the end of 2016, the and priorities, the program had three main objectives: goal is to have 1,000 employees using the new tool. establish a clear understanding about strategy and branding, how to drive change, including the pitfalls and Workforce diversity and equal opportunity learning what a good change process looks like, how The proportion of female employees (available data is for business projects should effectively be managed to en940 mainly office staff at Group level) was 31% in 2015 sure buy-in from all stakeholders, and finally how to lead (down from 33% in 2014). In Senior Management (Global and communicate in a way that makes a strong impact. Leadership team), 2 out of 82 people are women. The 12 members of the Franke Group Management Board are In 2015, the Franke Marketing Academy was initiated. all men. This advanced training platform focuses on the three main areas of leadership, knowledge and behavior. The No data on age group and minority group membership key objectives of the Franke Marketing Academy are is currently being collected as Franke Group does not to further develop strategic marketing and planning caconsider this to be relevant. pabilities, foster knowledge exchange between departments, and build a shared understanding of market * This information covers the requirements of the GRI indicator partially. 27 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITY BUILDING SUSTAINABLE COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE THROUGH PEOPLE MANAGEMENT Franke’s employees are its most valuable asset and the key factor of business success. Brand behavior is crucial to stand out from the competition and exceed customer expectations. In today’s world, it is no longer enough to create competitive advantage based on products alone. The challenge is that many of Franke’s products either are or become commoditized, meaning that the business’s margins are under constant pressure. As such, creating competitive advantage through people becomes a top priority. In order to drive growth and increase profitability, Franke aims to be extraordinary and uniquely valuable to distinguish itself from its competition: to do things others cannot copy and to outperform competitors. As a result, Group-wide transformational change targeted behavior as the winning ticket for Franke, lived both internally and externally through the Franke values. How employees work and collaborate becomes vital, including interactions with customers, how solution-oriented employees are, and how employees cooperate and work as a team. Franke aims to create a wonderful place to work, thereby attracting and retaining the right people to fit the culture. Identifying and promoting talent Working hand in hand with the Franke values, the emIn the past, each division and Group function was ployee value propositions consist of five main elements: responsible for identifying and promoting talent as “Learn and grow,” “Be part of our global team,” “Make well as succession planning for key roles. In the an impact,” “Create customer value” and “Take res­pon­ future and fully in line with One Franke, there will be sibil­ity”. Steered by Corporate Human Resources and a standard process coordinated across the Group united with the Make It Wonderful brand claim, the HR for the Talent & Succession Review process. With the mission “Create a wonderful place to work where people Talent & Succession Review, joint tools are also immake the difference” drives the HR strategy and innoplemented across all divisions and Group functions. vative HR business model across divisions and regions. Developing and managing transformational change is The concept for talent management and succession a constant leadership effort that requires high commit­ planning has been jointly developed by the Global ment from all Franke members. HR team of Franke together with the regional HR colleagues from all company areas. Thanks to the new joint process, internal talent is promoted in a more targeted manner, which offers individual career prospects and therefore promotes the loyalty of talent to the company. An additional positive side effect: reducing hiring costs and increasing transparency of the positions at Franke. 28 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITY CHANGE AMBASSADOR PROGRAM (CAMP) CONTINUES Developing and managing transformational change is a constant leadership effort that requires high commitment from all Franke members. Serving under the Franke Academy, the ongoing Change detect potential for optimization in every company and Ambassador Program (CAMP) supports employees on to activate it. Together with all employees, Franke aims to their journey to live the new corporate culture and values. deliver changes and to make improvements. In 2015, It is one of the biggest internal initiatives at Franke: all the focus was on teamwork and committing to the values 9,000 employees attending one of the nearly 1,000 workin a concrete way. In their teams and written directly on shops around the globe to identify and fully understand a poster-sized team charter, employees defined what the what the change means for them in their day-to-day Franke values meant to them and how they could support work and how every individual can support this change. the change. The charter is used as a living document In line with the One Franke, One Strategy, One Brand to be sustained and reviewed on a regular basis. This strategy as well as the brand promise Make It Wonderway teams can stay on track, ensuring every member is ful and five Franke values, the task and objective is to involved and moving in the right direction. 29 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EMPLOYER RESPONSIBILITY Management approach Compliance with the Code of Conduct is verified annuBy signing the UN Global Compact in 2011, Franke Group ally as part of a binding Group-wide survey. No cases of committed to “supporting and respecting the protection discrimination were discovered in 2015. of internationally proclaimed human rights” (principle 1) and to “making sure that we are not complicit in human Guarantee of freedom of association and rights abuses” (principle 2). collective bargaining In its Code of Conduct, Franke Group commits to The responsibility for raising awareness and controlling respect the rights of its employees to freedom of associinternal human rights issues (e. g. non-discrimination, ation and collective bargaining within the boundaries of equal opportunity and diversity, freedom of association the local law. and the right to collective bargaining) rests with Corporate Human Resources. The purchasing functions are The Supplier Code of Conduct of Franke Group requires in charge of ensuring that human rights and fundamental that all suppliers and their respective supply chain labor standards are respected in the supply chain. respect the rights of employees to freely asso­ciate and bargain collectively, free of any restrictions or conseIn its Code of Conduct, Franke Group commits to requences. specting and fully complying with all applicable laws and regulations and to supporting international human as Risk of and precautionary measures against well as fundamental labor laws as defined in the Internachild labor tional Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Franke’s exposure with respect to child labor is considPrinciples and Rights at Work. ered low because of its industry and the countries in which business activities are carried out. In its Code of Franke Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct requires that Conduct, Franke Group commits to respect fundamental all suppliers and their respective supply chain comply labor laws. Child labor is not tolerated. with minimum requirements regarding employment practices, environmental protection and business integrity. The Supplier Code of Conduct of Franke Group requires that all suppliers and their respective supply chain reject Human rights aspects in investment agreements child labor. There are no significant investment agreements or contracts which include human rights clauses or which Risk of and precautionary measures against underwent human rights screening. forced labor Franke’s exposure with respect to forced labor is conHuman rights training for employees sidered low because of its industry and the countries in In 2015, no employees received formal training in human which business activities are carried out. In its Code rights issues. Franke employees worldwide have access of Conduct, Franke Group commits to respecting fundato the Code of Conduct that is available in 12 languages. mental labor laws. Forced labor is not tolerated. The revised Code of Conduct was communicated to all employees and is available as a brochure. The Supplier Code of Conduct of Franke Group requires that all suppliers and their respective supply chain Incidents of discrimination reject forced, bonded, prison, military or compulsory The Code of Conduct of Franke Group forbids discriminalabor or any form of human trafficking. tion because of gender, age, color, national origin, race, religion or any other legally protected personal characteristic. However, security rules may restrict certain work to specific individuals. 31 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS MAKING OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY A PRIORITY Franke takes occupational health & safety very seriously for all employees. Franke Kindred Canada Limited, a part of Franke Kitchen Systems, provides an impressive example of these efforts. One of the world’s biggest healthcare problems are acciLarge Enterprises category. Safety was assessed at all dents and sickness caused in the workplace. According employee levels, e. g.: what stance and awareness do to the International Labor Organization (ILO), more than the management and the employees have about safety 315.3 million employees suffer an occupational accident and how the regulations are defined and established every year. This figure includes 2.3 million deaths, that in day-to-day operations. is 6,400 employees dying at work every day. At Franke, the safety of each employee is the top priority (safety In addition, the Excellence In Manufacturing Consortium first). With Lean Manufacturing and the Six Sigma system (EMC), a non-profit organization and the biggest assodeeply integrated in day-to-day operations, safety prociation of production workers in Canada, honored FKC cesses at the production companies are continuously for their great achievement in not having suffered any being optimized. Franke ensures operational excellence downtime due to an occupational accident in more by working in close alignment with local operations than ten years. Franke is proud that the efforts around locations and by adapting the manufacturing and ware­ health & safety in the workplace have been recognized house footprint to product and market needs. Regular and continues to progress further. investments in the operating plants guarantee a high safety level; regular training sessions and audits consist­ ently raise awareness and empower employees to Lean Manufacturing become more active in this area. As part of Franke’s LEAN manufacturing and Operations strategy, processes are analyzed and optimized Franke Kindred Canada Limited (FKC) has been the as best possible. Following the Operations Roadmap, leading production company of stainless steel sinks in 14 local workshops, 8 regional workshops and 2 Canada for 60 years. The company’s permanent safety global events were held at Franke. The results conefforts were honored with the Canadian Top Safety cluded better quality, greater safety, optimized costs Culture Award last year. Together with two other comand higher customer satisfaction. panies, FKC scored the most points in the Medium & 32 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS 33 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 HUMAN RIGHTS Management approach Anti-corruption policies training The Management Board of Franke Group supervises In 2015, no employees received formal training in anticompliance activities. corruption policies and procedures. Franke employees worldwide have access to the Code of Conduct that is The Franke Code of Conduct was last updated in 2013. available in 12 languages. All Franke employees commit to observing the highest ethical standards of professional and personal conThe revised Code of Conduct as well as the new duct in their interactions with customers, colleagues, SpeakUp@Franke integrity line was communicated to all business partners, competitors, regulators and the employees and a brochure distributed in 2013. communities in which Franke operates. Compliance with laws and regulations is coordinated by the Compliance Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Officer of Franke Group, who is a member of the Group No measures were necessary, as no case of corruption Legal & Compliance department and located in Switzerwas revealed in 2015. land. The Internal Audit department carries out on-site audits. In addition, the SpeakUp@Franke integrity line Political positions and exercise of influence can be used by all employees as a last resort to report Franke Group issues no political statements and does integrity concerns in a confidential and anonymous not involve itself in political lobbying. manner. In the event of misconduct, corrective measures are taken. Analysis of business units for risks of corruption The Internal Audit department carried out eight on-site audits in 2015 (down from 12 audits in 2014). Yet, these audits do not particularly focus on risks related to corruption. According to the annual binding survey carried out at all companies of Franke Group, there were no cases of corruption in 2015. 35 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT COLLABORATION ON ENGAGING SOCIAL COMMITMENTS At Franke, the values are reflected in the charitable actions of employees around the globe. The value Be Accountable plays a key role in such social projects that aim to increase motivation and ignite team spirit. Providing assistance and a wonderful spirit to Franke Foodservice Systems GmbH, families in need Bad Säckingen, Germany Within the framework of the Family Meal Program at Once a year, employees at Foodservice Systems GmbH Ronald McDonald House in Vancouver, Franke employees in Bad Säckingen, Germany, switch workplaces. They prepared a meal for more than 100 seriously ill children then exchange their pen for a hammer or tie for work and their families. The employees had the opportunity gloves within the framework of the Social Contribution to learn how important these meals are for the families Days, which were introduced in 2014, and commit to affected, who were able to take some time out to relax a social project for two days. One day of committing to by sitting at a laid table in the evening after so many voluntary work is covered by Franke, the second day is exhausting hours in the hospital. donated by the employees themselves, either as a day of leave or weekend work. The suggestions for the individ­ Supporting local aid organizations in the Netherlands ual initiatives come from the employees themselves. For One Team, One Spirit – that was the motto for the example, a fence was built for a mother-child clinic; a 20 Franke employees in the dragon boat race in Helmond, private art viewing was held together with people with Netherlands. The team event was for a good cause: the disabilities that showcased the paintings and handiproceeds went to local aid projects for children, including crafts created together; donuts were sold for a charitable the children’s medical unit in a hospital in Helmond. The cause and the pro bono helpers of the Wattenscheid Franke team in the Netherlands also pursues charitable Tafel were supported in distributing food and donations activities on land: more than 25 Franke employees to people in need. participated in a 24-hour charitable run in July, 2015 to raise funds for cancer research. 36 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT From top: Once a year, our employees at Foodservice Systems GmbH in Bad Säckingen, Germany, switch workplaces within the framework of the Social Contribution days. One Team, One Spirit for local aid projects for children: Local Franke employees at the first dragon boat race in the Dutch town of Helmond. 37 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT Management approach Product information Products and services are what our customers pay for. While only very few of our products require specific inTherefore, we are permanently challenging ourselves to formation on their sustainability impacts (e. g. taps, hobs ensure that our products and services provide value to and ovens in the European Union), Franke Group volunour customers. It is only through ongoing innovation and tarily uses a number of labels that allow our customers by meeting the highest quality and safety standards that and end users to make informed purchasing choices. we can maintain our leading position in the market. The list of labels includes: At Franke, product responsibility lies with several EU energy label (energy efficiency of hobs and ovens) departments: Product Development, Quality, Marketing, PEFC Chain of Custody (origin of wood) Risk Management and Legal. Sanitized (hygiene) WELL, WRAS and EnergieSchweiz (water efficiency of By the end of 2015, 36 of 39 production companies taps and shower heads) had a certified quality management system in accordance with the ISO 9001 standard. Quality management Practices related to customer satisfaction systems ensure that our products comply with mandaFranke divisions and companies assess customer satis­ tory technical and other standards. In addition, quality faction in different ways. This topic is generally part management leads to continuous improvements. of the quality management system and follows clear procedures. Health & safety impacts of products Franke Group products have to comply with a number of While some companies conduct customer surveys indetechnical and food safety regulations. Franke follows a pendently, others run third-party administered surveys preventive approach as part of its quality management with standardized questions. Performance improvement to ensure that health and safety requirements of all plans are routinely developed for those questions with products are met. Among other things, an FMEA (Failure the weakest results. Mode and Effects Analysis) is performed to prevent errors and increase the technical reliability of products. Customer privacy There are no known cases of complaints based on violaFranke ensures traceability of its critical products to the tions of data protection. first external customer. This allows recalling products in the event of serious malfunction. No product recall was required in the more than 100 years of Franke’s history. 39 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY SUCCESS WITH A SYSTEM THAT INSPIRES Saving the climate while cooking: Franke’s new kitchen appliances strategy offers energy-saving products. Franke Kitchen Systems, Franke’s biggest division, aims the intuitive control panels guarantee ease of use. The to achieve three objectives with its high-quality kitchen performance is also compelling: baking results either systems. First, it plans to offer customers unique value beat or are comparable with the brands of competitors, and create excitement in line with Make It Wonderful. and do so at the highest level of energy efficiency. Second, the Franke brand and its products are to In addition to top-of-the-range products, excellent become significantly more relevant in the sales process. distribution and strong marketing, Franke also requires Thirdly, the value per order, or sales, is to be increased; an optimal service structure. Work on this aspect is if possible, the aim is to sell the entire system. The new currently in full swing, as the internal service organizastrategy and the corresponding range have convinced tion is being expanded and a network of external service our business partners. companies established. Furthermore, the Marketing team is being strengthened, communication measures Franke’s new appliances combine innovative techintensified and the sales team trained and enhanced nology with competitive quality and offer customers time with cooking specialists. Various teams are in charge of savings and convenience fully in line with today’s lifethe enhancement, production, marketing, product style. For instance, Franke’s innovative Dynamic Cooking management and sale of built-in kitchen appliances. Technology (DCT) enables the shortest heating-up A joint, cross-functional approach, fully in line with periods for ovens and simultaneous cooking or baking of One Franke and the value Foster teamwork is essential several dishes without any aroma transfer. What’s more, for implementing the appliances strategy. 40 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Multifunctional oven Touch Product advantages Colored full touchscreen Dynamic Cooking Technology (DCT) Full menu: automatic baking and roasting programs Superfast heating up Large cooking volume (74 liters) Cool door Sleep mode (day/night mode) Energy-saving Energy efficiency category: A++ Colored full touchscreen Simple and intuitive operation with just one finger – just like on a smartphone. Dynamic Cooking Technology (DCT) The heat can be controlled with total precision, the oven heated up to more than 200 °C in less than seven minutes in power-saving mode, and the oven door does not become hotter than 55 °C thanks to its four layers of glass. Full menu Thanks to DCT, several dishes can be prepared at the same time in the oven – without transmitting any aroma. 41 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CONTACT Should you have any questions concerning Sustainability at Franke in general, please contact: Bruno Triet Head of Risk, Sustainability & Real Estate Management Franke Group ▸ bruno.triet@franke.com For questions regarding the content contained in this report, please contact: Jessica Erb HR Communications Franke Group ▸ jessica.erb@franke.com 42 FRANKE GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 CONTACT Publisher Franke Holding AG Franke-Strasse 2 4663 Aarburg Switzerland Sustainability Contact Bruno Triet, Head of Risk, Sustainability & Real Estate Management Franke Group bruno.triet@franke.com Editor Jessica Erb , HR Communications Franke Group Image credits Getty Images (Cover) Gataric Photography (page 2) Reed Brown Photography (page 28) Balz Murer (page 29) Bettina Matthiesen (page 33) istock (pages 12, 24, 30, 34) Shutterstock (pages 16, 38) Franke Conception/Realization Swisscontent AG, Zurich Print/Lithography DE Druck AG, Effretikon/Zurich Digicom Digitale Medien AG, Effretikon/Zurich Franke Holding AG Franke-Strasse 2 4663 Aarburg Switzerland www.franke.com
